risk factors: HIV-1, cocaine and cotinine (a metabolite of nicotine). Devices are sold to insurance testing laboratories, which in turn sell the devices to insurance companies, usually in combination with testing services. We also promote use of the OraSure® device directly to insurance companies for life insurance risk assessment. Insurance companies then make their own decision regarding which laboratory to use to supply their collection devices and testing services. We sell our OraSure® Western blot confirmatory test directly to insurance testing laboratories for use in confirming oral fluid specimens collected with our OraSure® device that initially test positive for HIV-1. There exists a wide range of policy limits where our OraSure® product is being used. In general, many (but not all) of our insurance company customers use the OraSure® device in connection with life insurance policies having face amounts of up to $250,000, with some customers using the device for policies of up to $500,000 in amount. Some insurance companies have chosen to extend their testing to lower policy limits where they did not test at all before, while others have used OraSure® to replace some of their blood and urine-based testing. In recent years, some insurance customers have adopted a “Simplified Issues” policy, where lab testing is no longer required and instead the applicant completes a questionnaire about personal behaviors. We also sell our AUTO-LYTE® assays and reagents in the insurance testing market directly to certain laboratories. Significant Products and Customers Several different products have contributed significantly to our financial performance, accounting for 10% or more of our total revenues during the past three years. The OraQuick® rapid HIV testing products, the cryosurgical systems products, and our Oragene® product line accounted for total revenues of $34.3 million, $11.9 million and $29.4 million, respectively, in 2015, $38.9 million, $15.5 million and $23.8 million, respectively, in 2014, and $44.8 million, $14.5 million and $20.4 million, respectively, in 2013. One of our customers accounted for approximately 12% of our net consolidated revenues in 2015. We had no individual customers who accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues in 2014 or 2013. 16 Table of Contents Financial Information by Segment We operate our business within two reportable segments. The first is our “OSUR” business, which consists of the development, manufacture and sale of diagnostic products, specimen collection devices, and medical devices. The second is our “DNAG” or molecular collection systems business, which consists primarily of the development, manufacture and sale of oral fluid collection devices that are used to collect, stabilize, and store samples of genetic material for molecular testing. OSUR revenues consist primarily of product sold into the United States and internationally to various clinical laboratories, hospitals, clinics, community-based organizations, public health organizations, distributors, government agencies, physicians’ offices, and commercial and industrial entities. OSUR also derives revenues from the sale of OTC products to retail pharmacies and mass merchandisers, and to consumers over the internet and from licensing and product development activities. DNAG revenues consist of product sold into the academic research, consumer genetics, clinical genetic testing, pharmacogenomics, personalized medicine, microbiome and animal genetics markets. For more information about our revenues from external customers, income and total assets, please see the sections entitled “Selected Consolidated Financial Data” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Supply and Manufacturing Our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV test, OraQuick® In-Home HIV test, OraQuick® HCV test, OraQuick® Ebola test, OraSure®, Intercept® and Intercept i2® collection devices, Western blot HIV-1 confirmatory test, AUTOLYTE and MICRO-PLATE assays and QED® saliva alcohol test are all manufactured in our Bethlehem, Pennsylvania facilities. We expect to continue to manufacture these products at this location for the foreseeable future. We have contracted with a third party in Thailand for the assembly of the OraQuick® HIV device in order to supply certain international markets. This supply agreement had an initial term of one year, and automatically renews for additional annual periods unless either party provides a timely notice of termination prior to the end of an annual period. We believe that other firms would be able to manufacture the OraQuick® test on terms no less favorable than those set forth in the agreement if the Thailand contractor would be unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing this product. This supplier will also assemble our OraQuick® HIV self-test. We can purchase the HIV antigens, the nitrocellulose and certain other critical components used in the OraQuick® HIV product lines, the HCV antigens used in the OraQuick® HCV test and the antigen used in the Western blot HIV-1 confirmatory test only from a limited number of sources. If for any reason these suppliers are unwilling or no longer able to supply our antigen or nitrocellulose needs, we believe that alternative supplies could be obtained at a competitive cost. However, a change in any of the antigens, the nitrocellulose or other critical components used in our products would require FDA approval and some additional development work. This in turn could require significant time to complete, increase our costs and disrupt our ability to manufacture and sell the affected products. Our MICROPLATE and AUTO-LYTE assays require the production of highly specific and sensitive antibodies corresponding to the antigen of interest. Substantially all our antibody requirements are provided by contract suppliers. We believe that we have adequate reserves of antibody supplies and that we have access to sufficient raw materials for these products. Our OraSure QuickFlu® test is manufactured and supplied by a third party, Princeton BioMeditech. There is no other supply source for this product. The fully-automated high-throughput oral fluid drug assays sold with our new Intercept i2® collection device are manufactured and supplied under a long-term agreement with Thermo Fisher. There is no other supply source for these products. 17 Table of Contents The Histofreezer® product sold in the U.S. is assembled by U.S. vendors and the Histofreezer® product sold internationally was previously assembled in the Netherlands by Koninklijke, Utermöhlen, N.V. (“Utermöhlen”), the company from which we acquired the product line in 1998. The supply agreement with Utermöhlen has expired and we have successfully transferred our supply arrangement for international versions of this product to a vendor located in Germany. The cryosurgical wart removal products distributed in OTC markets are assembled by vendors located in the United States. We believe that additional suppliers of all of our cryosurgical products are available on terms no less favorable than the terms of our existing supply agreements in the event that our current suppliers would be unable or unwilling to continue manufacturing these products. DNAG has two long-term contract manufacturing relationships to supply virtually all of its products, including the Oragene® product line. Many of the raw materials and components used in these products are also purchased from third parties, including one critical component that is purchased from a sole source supplier. We believe there are other suppliers that can manufacture and supply the raw materials and components for the DNAG products. Employees As of December 31, 2015, we had 326 full-time employees (including 103 employees at our subsidiary, DNAG). Of this total, there were 119 in sales, marketing and client services; 36 in research and development; 123 in operations, manufacturing, quality control, information systems, purchasing and shipping; 18 in quality assurance and regulatory affairs; and 30 in administration and finance. This compares to 320 employees as of December 31, 2014. Our employees are not currently represented by a collective bargaining agreement. Competition The diagnostic industry is a multi-billion dollar international industry and is intensely competitive. Many of our competitors are substantially larger than we are, and have greater financial, research, manufacturing and marketing resources than we do. Important competitive factors for our products include price, quality, performance, ease of use, customer service and reputation. Industry competition is based on these and the following additional factors: • Scientific and technological capability; • Proprietary know-how; • The ability to develop and market products and processes; • The ability to obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals; • The ability to manufacture products that meet applicable FDA requirements (i.e., good manufacturing practices); • Commercial execution and strength of distribution; • Access to adequate capital; • The ability to attract and retain qualified personnel; and • The availability of patent protection. A few large corporations produce a wide variety of diagnostic tests and other medical devices and equipment. A larger number of mid-size companies generally compete only in the diagnostic industry and a significant number of small companies produce only a few diagnostic products. As a result, the diagnostic test industry is highly fragmented and segmented. 18 Table of Contents The future market for diagnostic products is expected to be characterized by greater cost consciousness, the development of new technologies, tighter reimbursement policies and consolidation. The purchasers of diagnostic products are expected to place increased emphasis on lowering costs, reducing inventory levels, obtaining better performing products, automation, service and volume discounts. The increased complexity of the market is expected to force many competitors to enter into joint ventures or license certain products or technologies. We expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made and become more widely known, and as new products reach the market. Furthermore, new testing methodologies could be developed in the future that render our products impractical, uneconomical or obsolete. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in developing or marketing technologies and products that are more effective than those we develop or that would render our technologies and products obsolete or otherwise commercially unattractive. In addition, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for these products, or introduce or commercialize them, before we can do so. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several companies market or have announced plans to market oral specimen collection devices and tests both within and outside the United States. We expect the number of devices competing with our OraQuick®, OraSure®, Intercept® and Intercept i2® devices to increase as the benefits of oral fluid-based testing become more widely accepted. Competition in the U.S. market for infectious disease testing in medical settings is intense and is expected to increase. Our principal competition for HIV testing in the professional market comes from existing and new point-of-care rapid blood tests, automated laboratory-based blood tests, or other oral fluid-based tests. One of our competitors has received FDA approval and a CLIA waiver for a rapid oral fluid HIV test and another sells a rapid HIV antigen/antibody test that is both FDA approved and CLIA waived. Our OraQuick® rapid HCV test competes against laboratory-based blood tests in the U.S., as there currently are no other rapid HCV testing products approved by the FDA. Our competitors in the domestic infectious disease testing market include medical diagnostic companies and specialized biotechnology firms, as well as pharmaceutical companies with biotechnology divisions. Competing tests are often sold at a lower price than we charge for our products. This competition can result in lost sales and degradation of the price (and therefore the applicable profit margins) we can charge for our HIV and HCV tests. Outside the U.S., our rapid HIV and HCV tests compete against other rapid and laboratory-based tests. Significant sales of these products in Europe have not materialized principally because of differences in European healthcare systems compared to U.S. systems. Unlike the U.S., adoption of rapid point-of-care diagnostics is not widespread in Europe because laboratory testing is entrenched and healthcare systems are structured around centralized testing models. In addition, many competing tests in international markets are sold at very low prices. We intend to continue to build awareness and develop strategies to expand sales of our OraQuick® HIV and HCV tests in European and other international markets. Our OraQuick® In-Home HIV oral fluid test is the only rapid HIV test approved by the FDA for sale in the U.S. OTC market. We compete against one other non-rapid HIV blood test available in the OTC market, which requires consumers to self-collect a blood sample and then send it to a laboratory for testing. Competition for our OraQuick® Ebola test includes government and commercially-developed laboratory and point-of-care molecular tests, along with a small number of rapid antigen tests sold under FDA Emergency Use Authorization (EUA). Our Ebola test is the only product with regulatory authorization for use on both whole blood samples from living patients and oral fluid samples from cadavers. The OraSure QuickFlu® test competes primarily against other rapid flu tests sold by various third parties in the U.S. hospital and public health markets. 19 Table of Contents Our Oragene® collection system competes against other types of collection devices used for molecular testing, such as blood collection devices and buccal swabs, which often are sold for prices lower than the prices charged for the Oragene® products. Although we believe the Oragene® device offers a number of advantages over these other products, the availability of lower price competitive devices can result in lost sales and degradation in pricing and profit margin. OMNIgene® • Gut is being sold in the emerging microbiome market where the primary competition currently is a variety of non-standard in-house solutions developed by various researchers, including simply freezing the sample after collection. The microbiome market is expected to require standardization in the methods used for collection and stabilization in order to derive more accurate and repeatable results. To date, DNAG is one of the few vendors to offer a solution that fully meets these requirements. The OMNIgene® • Sputum and PrepIT® MAX products are unique and have no direct competition in terms of a comparable product. The primary competition for these products is the incumbent methodologies that are widely adopted for collecting sputum samples and have been used in labs globally for many years. In the substance abuse testing market, our Intercept® drug testing system competes with laboratory-based drug testing products using sample matrices such as urine, hair, sweat and oral fluid. We expect competition for our products to intensify, particularly from other domestic and international companies that have developed, or may develop, competing oral fluid drug testing products. There are at least two competitors that sell fully-automated high-throughput oral fluid drug testing products in unregulated settings in the United States. These competitors sell these assays for use with either their own oral fluid collector or a collector manufactured by another party. These offerings compete against our Intercept® and Intercept i2® collection devices and related oral fluid assays. Our MICRO-PLATE oral fluid drug assays, which are sold for use with the original Intercept® collector and our OraSure® collection device, also continue to come under increasing competitive pressure from “home-brew” assays developed internally by our laboratory customers. Our oral fluid MICRO-PLATE assays also compete with urine-based homogeneous assays that are run on fully-automated, random access analyzers. These tests provide strong competitive pressure because they provide the benefits of automation, including lower costs and short turn-around times. Our MICRO-PLATE drugs-of-abuse reagents sold in the forensic toxicology market are targeted to forensic testing laboratories where sensitivity, automation and “system solutions” are important. In the past, these laboratories have typically had to rely on radioimmunoassay test methods to provide an adequate level of sensitivity. Radioimmunoassays require radioactive materials, which have a short shelf-life and disposal problems. Our MICRO-PLATE tests meet the laboratories’ sensitivity needs, run on automated equipment, are not radioimmunoassays, and are offered to the laboratory as a complete system solution of reagents, instrumentation and software to meet the specific needs of each customer. We compete with both homogeneous and heterogeneous tests manufactured by many companies. Sales of our AUTO-LYTE® urine assays have declined substantially during the past several years, primarily due to competition from “home-brew” assays developed internally by our laboratory customers, which can be produced at a cost lower than the price typically paid for our products. Many of our customers no longer purchase our AUTO-LYTE® assays, and we may eventually stop selling this product line. Q.E.D.® competes against other semi-quantitative saliva-based alcohol tests that have received U.S. Department of Transportation approval as well as breath alcohol tests. Although there are lower priced tests on the market that use oral fluid or breath as a test medium, these tests are qualitative tests that are believed to be substantially lower in quality and provide fewer benefits than our Q.E.D.® test. 20 Table of Contents Our professional cryosurgical product is sold primarily to physicians, including family practitioners, pediatricians and podiatrists. This product primarily competes against other portable cryosurgical systems used for the removal of benign skin lesions in both the U.S. and Europe. In addition, certain of our distributors sell private label cryosurgical products that compete with our Histofreezer® product. Our OTC cryosurgical products compete against other cryosurgical products offered in the U.S. OTC market and certain international OTC markets. Patents and Proprietary Information We seek patents and other intellectual property rights to protect and preserve our proprietary technology and our right to capitalize on the results of our research and development activities. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations and licensing opportunities to provide competitive advantages for our products in our markets and to accelerate new product introductions. We regularly search for third-party patents in fields related to our business to shape our own patent and product commercialization strategies as effectively as possible and to identify licensing opportunities. United States patents generally have a maximum term of 20 years from the date an application is filed. We have six United States patents and numerous foreign patents for the OraSure® and Intercept® collection devices and technology relating to oral fluid collection, containers for oral fluids, methods to test oral fluid, formulations for the manufacture of synthetic oral fluid, and methods to control the volume of oral fluid collected and dispersed. The patents expire from September 2016 to December 2026. We have also applied for additional patents, in both the United States and certain foreign countries, on such products and technology. We have five United States patents for our OraQuick® platform, as well as corresponding related international patents. We also have patent applications pending internationally. Four of the U.S. patents expire from March to July 2019 and the fifth in July 2028. We have obtained licenses to certain lateral flow patents and to certain HIV-1 and HIV-2 patents held by other parties. We also have obtained a license to certain HCV patents which we use to manufacture and sell a rapid HCV test on the OraQuick® technology platform. We obtained these licenses through the payment of certain upfront fees and an agreement to pay ongoing royalties. We believe these fees and royalties are comparable to those generally paid by other companies under similar arrangements. We hold, through our subsidiary, DNAG, seventeen United States patents and numerous foreign patents issued for compositions, methods and apparatuses for the collection, stabilization, transportation and storage of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA) from oral fluid and other bodily fluids and tissues. These patents expire from July 2019 through March 2031. We have two United States patent and numerous foreign patents issued for apparatuses and methods for the topical removal of skin lesions relating to our cryosurgical wart removal products, and we have pending patent applications related to these products in the United States and in certain foreign countries. These patents expire from September 2025 to August 2032. We require our employees, consultants, outside collaborators and other advisors to execute confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of employment or consulting relationships with us. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed by or made known to the individual during the course of the individual’s relationship with us is to be kept confidential and not disclosed to third parties except in specific circumstances. In the case of employees and certain consultants, the agreements also provide that all inventions conceived by the individual during his or her tenure with us or the performance by the consultant of services for us will be our exclusive property. We own rights to trademarks and service marks that we believe are necessary to conduct our business as currently operated. In the United States, we own a number of trademarks, including the OraSure®, Intercept®, Intercept i2®, OraQuick®, OraQuick ADVANCE®, Histofreezer®, OraSure QuickFlu®, Q.E.D.®, Oragene®, ORAcollect®, OMNIgene®, PrepIT® and AUTO-LYTE® trademarks. We also own many of these marks and 21 Table of Contents others in several foreign countries. With respect to our international OTC cryosurgical products, the Scholl and Dr. Scholl tradenames are owned by Reckitt Benckiser in Europe, Australia, New Zealand and other countries outside North and South America, and the POINTTS tradename is owned by Genomma. Although important, the issuance of a patent or existence of trademark or trade secret protection does not in itself ensure the success of our business. Competitors may be able to produce products competing with our patented products without infringing our patent rights. Issuance of a patent in one country generally does not prevent manufacture or sale of the patented product in other countries. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to validity or as to the enforceable scope of the patent. The validity or enforceability of a patent or trademark can be challenged by litigation after its issuance or registration. If the outcome of such litigation is adverse to the owner of the patent, the owner’s rights could be diminished or withdrawn. Trade secret protection does not prevent independent discovery and exploitation of the secret product or technique. Government Regulation General Most of our products are regulated by the FDA, along with other federal, state and local agencies and comparable regulatory bodies in other countries. This regulated environment governs almost all aspects of development, production and marketing, including product testing, authorizations to market, labeling, promotion, manufacturing and recordkeeping. We believe that our products and procedures are in material compliance with all applicable FDA regulations, but the regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products are subject to change. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that these changes might have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. All of our FDA-regulated products require some form of action by the FDA before they can be marketed in the United States. After approval or clearance by the FDA, we must continue to comply with other FDA requirements applicable to marketed products. Both before and after approval or clearance, failure to comply with the FDA’s requirements can lead to significant penalties or could disrupt our ability to manufacture and sell these products. In addition, the FDA could refuse permission to obtain certificates needed to export our products if the agency determines that we are not in compliance. Domestic Regulation Most of our products are regulated in the United States as medical devices. There are several mechanisms by which regulated medical devices can be placed on the market in the United States. Some products may qualify for clearance under Section 510(k) of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To obtain this clearance from the FDA, the manufacturer must provide a premarket notification that it intends to begin marketing the product, and show that the product is substantially equivalent to another legally marketed product (i.e., that it has the same intended use and is as safe and effective as a legally marketed device and does not raise different questions of safety and effectiveness). In some cases, the submission must include data from human clinical studies. Marketing may only commence when the FDA issues a clearance letter finding substantial equivalence. An applicant must submit a 510(k) application at least 90 days before marketing of the affected product commences. Although FDA clearance usually takes from four to twelve months, in some cases more than a year may be required before clearance is obtained, if at all. If the medical device does not qualify for the 510(k) procedure (either because it is not substantially equivalent to a legally marketed device or because it is required by statute and the FDA’s regulations to have an approved PMA), the FDA must approve a PMA before marketing can begin. PMAs must demonstrate, among other matters, that the medical device provides a reasonable assurance of safety and effectiveness. A PMA is typically a complex submission, supported by valid scientific evidence, including the results of preclinical and clinical studies. Preparing a PMA is a detailed and time-consuming process. Once a PMA has been submitted, the FDA is 22 Table of Contents required to review the submission within 180 days. However, the FDA’s review may be, and often is, much longer, in many cases requiring one to three years or more, and may include requests for additional data and facility inspections before approval is granted, if at all. If the FDA approves the PMA, it may place restrictions on the device. If the FDA’s evaluation of the PMA or the manufacturing facility is not favorable, the FDA may deny approval of the PMA application or issue a “not approvable” letter. The FDA may also require additional clinical trials, which can delay the PMA approval process by several years. In addition, if the FDA discovers that an applicant has submitted false or misleading information, the FDA may refuse to review submissions until certain requirements are met pursuant to its Application Integrity Policy (AIP). Delays in receipt of or failure to receive such clearances or approvals, the loss of previously received clearances or approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If there are any modifications made to our marketed devices, a premarket notification or PMA may be required to be submitted to, and cleared or approved by, the FDA, before the modified device may be marketed. A new PMA or a PMA supplement is required for modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, including, for example, certain types of modifications to the device’s indications for use, manufacturing process, manufacturing facility, critical components, labeling and design. A clinical trial may be required in support of a 510(k) submission and generally is required for a PMA application. These trials generally require an Investigational Device Exemption, or IDE, application approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients, unless the proposed study is deemed a non-significant risk study, which is eligible for an exemption from the IDE requirements. The IDE application must be supported by appropriate data, such as laboratory testing results. Clinical trials may begin if the IDE application is approved by the FDA and the appropriate institutional review boards, or IRBs, at the clinical trial sites. Submission of an IDE application does not give assurance that the FDA will issue the IDE. If the IDE application is approved, there can be no assurance the FDA will determine that the data derived from the trials support the safety and effectiveness of the device or warrant the continuation of clinical trials. An IDE supplement must be submitted to and approved by the FDA before a sponsor or investigator may make a change to the investigational plan in such a way that may affect its scientific soundness, study indication or the rights, safety or welfare of human subjects. The trial must also comply with the FDA’s regulations, including the requirement that informed consent be obtained from each subject. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA clearance to market the product in the United States. Some of our products are used for research only or other non-medical purposes. Our molecular collection products are sold to many academic and research institutions for research purposes and our drugs-of-abuse products are sold to laboratories and clinics for forensic or other non-medical uses. The FDA does not currently regulate products used for these purposes, although other state and federal regulatory requirements may apply. Another option for marketing a product in the U.S. is through Emergency Use Authorization, or EUA, that is granted by the FDA as a result of the Secretary of Health and Human Services declaring an emergency justifying the authorization of emergency use of certain in vitro diagnostic devices to aid in addressing the emergency. Typically, analytical and clinical studies are completed as required by the FDA. Products are exempt from design controls and other quality requirements in order to expedite development of diagnostic tools to aid in the diagnosis of viral pathogens that have the potential to affect public health. Every company that manufactures medical devices distributed in the United States must comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations (“QSRs”), including current good manufacturing practices. These regulations govern the manufacturing process, including design, manufacture, testing, release, packaging, distribution, documentation and purchasing as well as complaint handling, corrective and preventative actions and internal auditing. In complying with the QSRs, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality to ensure full technical compliance. 23 Table of Contents We believe that our facilities and procedures are in material compliance with the FDA’s QSR regulations, but the regulations are subject to change, and we cannot be sure that FDA investigators will agree with our compliance with the QSR requirements. Companies are also subject to other post-market and general requirements, including product listing and establishment regulations, which help facilitate FDA inspections and other regulatory action, post-market surveillance requests, restrictions imposed on marketed products, promotional standards and requirements for recordkeeping and reporting of certain adverse reactions. Medical device reporting regulations require that manufacturers report if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction of the device or a similar device were to recur. The FDA regularly inspects companies to determine compliance with the QSRs and other post-market requirements. Failure to comply with statutory requirements and the FDA’s regulations can result in an FDA Form 483 (which is issued by the FDA at the conclusion of an inspection when an investigator has observed any conditions that may constitute violations), public warning letters, monetary penalties against a company or its officers and employees, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, operating restrictions, total or partial suspension of production, injunctions, product recalls, product detentions, refusal to provide export certificates, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. On December 23, 2013, our molecular collection systems subsidiary, DNAG, received a warning letter from the FDA. The warning letter primarily focused on DNAG’s response to two Form 483 observations issued by the FDA as a result of an inspection of DNAG’s Ottawa, Canada facilities in September 2013. Specifically, the warning letter indicated the need for additional documentation regarding design and development activities for DNAG’s products and focused in particular on the design planning and design history file for DNAG’s 510(k)-cleared Oragene®• Dx collection device. In addition, the warning letter requested additional documentation related to finished product acceptance testing activities for DNAG’s ORAcollect® collection device. The letter further noted that DNAG does not currently have in place an approved PMA or 510(k) clearance for its ORAcollect® device. DNAG has submitted a formal response and is actively engaged and working with the FDA to address the issues referenced in the warning letter. In addition, DNAG has submitted to the FDA an application for 510(k) clearance of its ORAcollect® device. While the warning letter still remains pending, DNAG intends to continue to sell and market all of its products. We expect no material impact to product sales or our consolidated financial performance for the forseeable future as a result of the issues raised by the warning letter. The Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, prohibit any facility that does laboratory testing on specimens derived from humans from providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of any disease or impairment of, or the assessment of, the health of human beings, unless there is in effect for such facility a certificate issued by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services applicable to the category of examination or procedure performed. Tests may be waived from this regulatory oversight if they meet certain requirements established under CLIA. We consider the applicability of CLIA requirements in the design and development of our products. We have obtained a waiver of the CLIA requirements for our OraQuick ADVANCE® rapid HIV-1/2 antibody test, our OraQuick® HCV rapid antibody test and our Q.E.D.® alcohol saliva test and may seek similar waivers for certain other products. A CLIA waiver allows certain customers to use the waived products that may not have been able to use them without complying with applicable quality control and other requirements. Certain of our products may also be affected by state regulations in the United States. We are presently working with legislators or regulators in certain of these states in an effort to modify or remove any restrictions affecting our ability to sell products. 24 Table of Contents Advertising and Promotion Advertising and promotion of medical devices, in addition to being regulated by the FDA, are also regulated by the Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) and by other federal and state regulatory and enforcement authorities, including the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services, and various state attorney generals. Although physicians are permitted to exercise medical judgment to use medical devices for indications other than those cleared or approved by the FDA, we may not promote our products for such “off-label” uses and can only market our products for cleared or approved uses. Promotional activities for FDA-regulated products of other companies have also been the subject of enforcement actions brought under healthcare reimbursement laws and consumer protection statutes. In addition, under the federal Lanham Act and similar state laws, competitors and others can initiate litigation relating to advertising claims. If the FDA determines that our promotional materials or training constitute promotion of an uncleared or unapproved use, it could request that we modify our training or promotional materials or subject us to regulatory or enforcement actions, including the issuance of an untitled letter, a notice of violation, a warning letter, injunction, seizure, civil fine or criminal penalties. FTC enforcement actions often result in consent decrees that constrain future actions. If an enforcement action is brought by the FDA or FTC, our reputation could be damaged and sales of our products could be impaired. Import and Export Requirements Products for export from the United States are subject to foreign countries’ import requirements and the exporting requirements of the FDA or European regulating bodies, as applicable. In particular, international sales of medical devices manufactured in the United States that are not approved or cleared by the FDA for use in the United States, or are banned or deviate from lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Foreign countries often require, among other things, an FDA certificate for products for export, also called a Certificate for Foreign Government. To obtain this certificate from the FDA, the device manufacturer must apply to the FDA. The FDA certifies that the product has been granted clearance or approval in the United States and that the manufacturing facilities were in compliance with QSR regulations at the time of the last FDA inspection. If the FDA determines that our facilities or procedures do not comply with the QSR regulations, it may refuse to provide such certificates until we resolve the issues to the FDA’s satisfaction. International We are also subject to regulations in foreign countries governing products, human clinical trials and marketing, and may need to obtain approval from international public health agencies, such as the World Health Organization, in order to sell products in certain countries. Approval processes vary from country to country, and the length of time required for approval or to obtain other clearances may in some cases be longer than that required for U.S. governmental approvals. We generally pursue approval only in those countries that we believe have a significant market opportunity. The International Organization for Standardization (“ISO”) is a worldwide federation of national standards bodies from some 130 countries, established in 1947. The mission of the ISO is to promote the development of standardization and related activities in the world with a view to facilitating the international exchange of goods and services. ISO certification indicates that our quality system complies with standards applicable to activities ranging from initial product design and development through production and distribution. In the European Union (“EU”), products that fall under the scope of the Medical Devices Directive (“MDD”) and the In Vitro Diagnostic Directive (“IVDD”) must comply with certain essential requirements listed in those directives. ISO certification creates a rebuttable presumption that the product satisfies the applicable requirements. Compliance with these requirements allows us to affix the CE mark to our products, without which they may not be placed on the market in the EU. 25 Table of Contents We have received authorization to use the CE mark for the OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test, the OraQuick® HCV test, our Histofreezer® product line, our OTC cryosurgical removal product and certain of the Oragene® collection kits and OMNIgene® products sold by DNAG. We must also comply with certain registration and licensing requirements as dictated by Health Canada, prior to commencing sales in Canada. We have completed this process for several of our current products and may do so with respect to other products in the future. In addition, Canadian law requires manufacturers of medical devices to have a quality management system that meets various ISO requirements in order to obtain a license to sell their devices in Canada. Anti-Kickback and Other Fraud and Abuse Laws The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the knowing and willful offer, payment, solicitation, or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for, or to induce: • The referral of an individual to a person for the furnishing or arranging for the furnishing of items or services reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs; or • The purchase, lease, or order of, or the arrangement or recommendation of the purchasing, leasing, or ordering of any item or service reimbursable under Medicare, Medicaid, or other governmental healthcare programs. Our products are or may be purchased by customers that will seek or receive reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs. Noncompliance with the federal anti-kickback statute can result in exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid or other governmental healthcare programs, and/or restrictions on our ability to operate in certain jurisdictions, as well as civil and criminal penalties, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The Federal Civil Monetary Penalties Law prohibits the offering or transferring of remuneration to a Medicare or Medicaid beneficiary that the person knows or should know is likely to influence the beneficiary’s selection of a particular provider, practitioner or supplier of Medicare or Medicaid payable items or services. Noncompliance can result in civil monetary penalties for each wrongful act, assessment of three times the amount claimed for each item or service and exclusion from the Federal healthcare programs. Many states have also adopted some form of anti-kickback laws. A determination of liability under such laws could result in fines and penalties, restrictions on our ability to operate in these jurisdictions and significant damage to our reputation. We are also subject to other federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including false claims laws, marketing conduct laws and laws constraining the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs, such manufacturers can enter into with physicians, hospitals, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Violations of these laws may be punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. These laws and regulations are wide ranging and subject to changing interpretation and application. In recent years, there has been greater scrutiny of marketing practices in the medical device industry which has resulted in several government investigations by various government authorities and the introduction and/or passage of federal and state legislation regulating interactions between medical device manufacturers and healthcare professionals and providers and requiring the disclosure by medical device manufacturers of gifts or other payments to healthcare professionals and providers. For example, under the Sunshine Act provisions of the Affordable Care Act, device manufacturers are subject to new federal reporting and disclosure requirements with regard to payments or other transfers of value made to physicians and teaching hospitals. Reports submitted under the Sunshine Act are placed in a public database. Device 26 Table of Contents manufacturers are required to submit annual reports by March 31 which cover the prior calendar year. To be in compliance with such disclosure laws, we have implemented necessary systems to accurately track gifts and other payments. We have implemented a written Policy on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, which is based on the Code of Conduct for Interactions with Health Care Professionals promulgated by the Advanced Medical Technology Association, or AdvaMed, a leading trade association representing medical device manufacturers. The Policy applies to all employees and is intended to comply with applicable state and federal laws, regulations and government guidance. The Policy addresses interactions related to sales and marketing practices, research and development, product training and education, grants and charitable contributions, support of third-party educational conferences, and consulting arrangements. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Other Anti-Corruption Laws The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”) prohibits corporations and individuals from engaging in certain activities to obtain or retain business or to influence a person working in an official capacity. It is illegal to use any means of interstate commerce corruptly in the furtherance of any offer, payment, promise to pay or authorization of payment of anything of value to any foreign government official, government staff member, political party or political candidate in an attempt to obtain or retain business or to otherwise influence a person working in an official capacity. Our present and future business has and will continue to be subject to the FCPA and various other laws, rules and/or regulations applicable to us as a result of our international sales. Those laws include the U.K. Bribery Act (the “Bribery Act”), which proscribes giving and receiving bribes in the public and private sectors, bribing a foreign public official, and failing to have adequate procedures to prevent employees and other agents from giving bribes. U.S. companies that conduct business in the United Kingdom generally will be subject to the Bribery Act. Penalties under the Bribery Act include potentially unlimited fines for companies and criminal sanctions for corporate officers under certain circumstances. Environmental Regulation Because of the nature of our current and proposed research, development, and manufacturing processes, we are subject to stringent federal, state and local laws, rules, regulations and policies governing the use, generation, manufacture, storage, air emission, effluent discharge and handling and disposal of solid wastes, hazardous materials and hazardous wastes. Products that we sell in Europe are subject to regulation in European Union, or EU, markets under the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS. RoHS prohibits companies from selling products which contain certain hazardous materials, including lead, mercury, cadmium, chromium, polybrominated biphenyls and polybrominated diphenyl ethers, in EU member states. In addition, the EU’s Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals Directive also restricts substances of very high concern in products. Future environmental laws may require us to alter our manufacturing processes, thereby increasing our manufacturing costs. We believe that our products and manufacturing processes at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws; however, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated. The foregoing discussion of our business should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Item 15 of this Annual Report. 27 Table of Contents ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report and our other SEC filings, in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not disclosed or not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory Risks The Need to Obtain Regulatory Approvals Could Increase Our Costs and Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance. Many of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other governmental or public health agencies. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. The process of obtaining required approvals or registrations can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human clinical trials, sampling activities and other costly, time-consuming procedures. These approvals and registrations can require the submission of a large amount of clinical data which can be expensive and may require significant time to obtain. It is also possible that a product will not perform at a level needed to generate the clinical data required to obtain approval or registration. The submission of an application to the FDA or other regulatory authority does not guarantee that an approval or registration to market or import the product will be received. A regulatory authority may impose requirements as a condition to granting an approval or registration, may include significant restrictions or limitations as part of any approval or clearance it grants and may delay or refuse to grant approval or registration, even though a product has been approved or registered without restrictions or limitations in another country or by another agency. Delays in receipt or failure to receive such clearances or approvals could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. All in vitro diagnostic products that are to be sold in the EU must bear the CE mark indicating conformance with the essential requirements of the IVDD. We have obtained the CE mark for several of our existing products. We also intend to apply for CE marks for certain of our future products and are not aware of any material reason why we would be unable to obtain those marks. However, there can be no assurance that compliance with all provisions of the IVDD will be demonstrated and the CE mark will be obtained or maintained for all products that we desire to sell in the EU. The failure to obtain or maintain the CE mark for one or more of our products could lead to the termination of strategic alliances and agreements for sales of those products in the EU. In addition, we or our distributors are often required to obtain approval or registration with foreign governments or regulatory bodies before we can import and sell our products in foreign countries. Any change in our arrangement with such a distributor could result in the loss of or delay in transfer of any applicable product registrations, thereby interrupting our ability to sell those products in the affected markets. Failure to Comply With FDA or Other Regulatory Requirements May Require Us to Suspend Production of Our Products or Institute a Recall Which Could Result in Higher Costs and a Loss of Revenues. Regulation by the FDA and other federal, state and foreign regulatory agencies impacts many aspects of our operations, and the operations of our suppliers and distributors, including manufacturing, labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record keeping. We and our suppliers and distributors are subject to routine inspection by the FDA and other agencies to determine compliance with QSR 28 Table of Contents and Medical Device Reporting requirements in the United States and other applicable regulations worldwide, including but not limited to ISO regulations. We believe that our facilities and procedures are in material compliance with the QSR requirements, but the regulations are subject to change and we cannot be sure that the FDA investigators will agree with our compliance with the QSR requirements. The FDA and foreign regulatory agencies may require post-marketing testing and surveillance to monitor the performance of approved products or place conditions on any product approvals that could restrict the commercial applications of those products. Regulatory agencies may impose restrictions on our or our distributors’ advertising and promotional activities or preclude these activities altogether if a noncompliance is believed to exist. In addition, the subsequent discovery of previously unknown problems with a product may result in restrictions on the product, including withdrawal of the product from the market. Failure to comply with the applicable requirements can result in, among other things, 483 notices, warning letters, administrative or judicially imposed sanctions such as injunctions, civil penalties, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, refusal to grant premarket clearance or PMA approval for devices, withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals, or criminal prosecution. The ability of our suppliers to supply critical components or materials and of our distributors to sell our products could also be adversely affected if their operations are determined to be out of compliance. Such actions by the FDA and other regulatory bodies could adversely affect our revenues, costs and results of operations. In the ordinary course of business, we must frequently make subjective judgments with respect to compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If regulators subsequently disagree with the manner in which we have sought to comply with these regulations, we could be subjected to substantial civil and criminal penalties, as well as product recall, seizure or injunction with respect to the sale of our products. The assessment of any civil and criminal penalties against us could severely impair our reputation within the industry and any limitation on our ability to manufacture and market our products could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our Ability to Respond to Changes in Regulatory Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We believe that our products and procedures are in material compliance with all applicable FDA regulations, including the QSR, but the regulations regarding the manufacture and sale of our products and the QSR requirements are subject to change. Newly promulgated regulations could require changes to our products, necessitate additional clinical trials or procedures, or make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. The FDA and other regulatory authorities also have the ability to change the requirements for obtaining product approval and/or impose new or additional requirements as part of the approval process. These changes or new or additional requirements may occur after the completion of substantial clinical work and other costly development activities. The implementation of such changes or new or additional requirements may result in additional clinical trials and substantial additional costs and could delay or make it more difficult or complicated to obtain product approvals. In addition, the FDA may revoke an Emergency Use Authorization under which our products are sold, where it is determined that the underlying health emergency no longer exists or warrants such authorization. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that these changes might have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our Inability to Manufacture Products in Accordance With Applicable Specifications, Performance Standards or Quality Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The materials and processes used to manufacture our products must meet detailed specifications, performance standards and quality requirements to ensure our products will perform in accordance with their label claims, our customers’ expectations and applicable regulatory requirements. As a result, our products and the materials used in their manufacture or assembly undergo regular inspections and quality testing. Factors such as defective materials or processes, mechanical failures, human errors, environmental conditions, changes in materials or production methods by our vendors, and other events or conditions could cause our products or the materials used to produce or assemble our products to fail inspections and quality testing or otherwise not perform in accordance with our label claims or the expectations of our customers. 29 Table of Contents Any failure or delay in our ability to meet the applicable specifications, performance standards, quality requirements or customer expectations could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products or comply with regulatory requirements. These events could, in turn, adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. We Are Subject to Numerous Government Regulations in Addition to FDA Requirements, Which Could Increase Our Costs and Affect Our Operations. In addition to the FDA and other regulations described previously, laws and regulations in some states may restrict our ability to sell products in those states. While we intend to work with state legislators and regulators to remove or modify any applicable restrictions, there is no guarantee we will be successful in these efforts. We must also comply with numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, disposal of hazardous substances and labor or employment practices. Compliance with these laws or any new or changed laws regulating our business could result in substantial costs. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of these requirements. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with complying with these laws and requirements are substantial or it is determined that we do not comply, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Failure To Comply With Privacy, Security and Breach Notification Regulations May Increase Our Costs. The Company believes it is neither a covered entity nor a business associate of a covered entity and is not responsible for complying with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended (“HIPAA”). However, the Company has in place certain administrative, technical and physical safeguards to protect the privacy and security of consumers’ personal information and endeavors to comply with all applicable state and federal laws with respect to the protection of consumers’ personal information. The Company is required to comply with varying state privacy, security and breach reporting laws. If we do not comply with existing or new laws and regulations related to properly transferring data containing consumers’ personal information, we could be subject to monetary fines, civil penalties or criminal sanctions. In addition to other federal and state laws that protect the privacy and security of consumers’ personal information, we may be subject to enforcement and interpretations by various governmental authorities and courts resulting in complex compliance issues. For example, we could incur damages under state laws pursuant to an action brought by a private party for the wrongful use or disclosure of consumers’ personal information. Compliance With Regulations Governing Public Company Corporate Governance and Reporting is Complex and Expensive. Many laws and regulations impose obligations on public companies, which have increased the scope, complexity and cost of corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices. Examples include the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, the SEC’s requirements for public companies to provide financial statements in interactive data format using the eXtensible Business Reporting Language (“XBRL”), and the International Financial Reporting Standards conversion requirements. Our implementation of certain aspects of these laws and regulations has required and will continue to require substantial management time and oversight and may require us to incur significant additional accounting and legal costs. We continually evaluate and monitor developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the ultimate amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws and regulations are also subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. Although we 30 Table of Contents are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, if we fail to comply with any of these requirements, legal proceedings may be initiated against us, which may adversely affect our business. FDA Regulation of Laboratory-Developed Tests and Genetic Testing Could Affect Demand For Our Products. The FDA has regulatory responsibility over instruments, test kits, reagents and other devices used to perform diagnostic testing by clinical laboratories. In the past, the FDA has claimed regulatory authority over laboratory-developed tests, or LDTs, but has exercised enforcement discretion in not regulating LDTs performed by high complexity CLIA-certified laboratories. LDTs are tests developed in-house by a laboratory where the laboratory makes a determination about its ability to perform the test and whether the test yields clinically relevant information. A significant portion of the total volume of genetic or molecular testing is performed with LDTs. In mid-2014, the FDA announced that it would begin regulating LDTs, including laboratory developed molecular tests, and has issued proposed guidance on the regulation of LDTs for public comment. Our subsidiary, DNAG, sells its DNA collection systems to certain laboratories and other customers for use with LDTs. The FDA’s increased regulation of LDTs could make it more difficult for laboratories and other customers to continue offering LDTs that involve genetic or molecular testing. This, in turn, could reduce demand for DNAG’s products and adversely impact our revenues. Evolving Legislative, Judicial and Ethical Standards on the Use of Technology and Biotechnology Could Affect Our Molecular Collection Systems Business. The adoption of genetic testing is occurring within the broader context of a myriad of decisions related to genetic patenting and genotyping. Issues associated with regulatory requirements, health insurance, data access and privacy, intellectual property protection, national and international legislative initiatives and other variables impact the widespread adoption of genetic testing or specific segments or tests within the genetic testing market. These developments could impact sales of our molecular collection systems products. Federal and State Laws Pertaining to Healthcare Fraud and Abuse Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Financial Condition and Results of Operations. We are subject to various federal and state laws targeting fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry, including anti-kickback laws, false claims laws, laws constraining the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements we may enter into with physicians, hospitals, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices and laws requiring the reporting of certain transactions between us and healthcare professionals. Violations of these laws are punishable by criminal or civil sanctions, including substantial fines, imprisonment and exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Many of the existing requirements are new and have not been definitively interpreted by state authorities or courts, and available guidance is limited. Unless and until we are in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement action and fines and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, all of which could materially harm our business. In addition, changes in or evolving interpretations of these laws, regulations, or administrative or judicial interpretations, may require us to change our business practices or subject our business practices to legal challenges, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our International Sales Create Potential Exposure Under Anti-Corruption Laws. In 2015, approximately $23.2 million of our consolidated net revenues were generated from sales in a variety of foreign countries. These international activities subject us to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the U.K. Bribery Act and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials and political parties by business entities for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. We have operations, agreements with third parties and make sales in countries known to experience 31 Table of Contents corruption. Further international expansion may create increased exposure to such practices. Our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors that could be in violation of various laws, including the FCPA, even though these parties are not always subject to our control. It is our policy to implement safeguards to discourage these practices by our employees and distributors, including employee training, contracts requiring compliance with the FCPA and similar rules, and standard reviews of our distributors. However, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may not prove to be effective, and our employees, consultants, sales agents or distributors may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. Violations of the FCPA and other laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could be severe and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could negatively affect our reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Strategy If We Fail to Achieve Performance Objectives Under Our HCV Agreement With AbbVie or this Agreement is Terminated, Our Financial Results and Business Prospects Could Be Adversely Affected. We have entered into an agreement with AbbVie for the co-promotion of our OraQuick® HCV test into certain markets in the U.S. Under the agreement, we have granted exclusive co-promotion rights to AbbVie for the OraQuick® HCV test in these markets and we provide certain services in support of HCV testing. In exchange for these exclusive rights and the services provided to AbbVie, we are eligible to receive up to $75.0 million in aggregate payments over the term of the agreement, which runs through December 31, 2019. If certain performance milestones are achieved, we will also be eligible to receive additional annual incentive fees. The agreement contains certain termination, indemnification and other provisions typical of agreements of its type. We have not yet earned an incentive fee under the AbbVie agreement and it is difficult to predict when, or if, we will be able to achieve one or more of the performance milestones required to receive such a fee. In addition, under certain circumstances, either party may terminate the agreement before its expiration and such a termination could occur as early as December 31, 2016. In 2015 and 2014, $13.5 million and $7.6 million of our revenues, respectively, were from the recognition of exclusivity revenues under the AbbVie agreement. If we fail to achieve performance milestones under the AbbVie agreement or AbbVie terminates the agreement before its expiration, the amount of exclusivity payments and incentive fees we receive under the agreement could be reduced or eliminated and our financial results and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. Our Ability to Sell Products Could be Adversely Affected by Competition From New and Existing Products. The markets we serve are highly competitive and rapidly changing and we expect competition to intensify as technological advances are made and become more widely known, and as new products reach the market. Many of our principal competitors have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor’s products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. In addition, there can be no assurance that our competitors will not succeed in obtaining regulatory approval for new products that would render our technologies and products obsolete or otherwise commercially unattractive, or introduce or commercialize such products, before we can do so. If we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position, our customers may decide to use products developed by competitors which could result in a loss of revenues. These developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face competition from products that are sold at a lower price. Where this occurs, customers may choose to buy lower cost products from third parties or we may be forced to sell our products at a lower price, both of which could result in a loss of revenues or a lower gross margin contribution from the sale of our products. We may also be required to increase our marketing efforts in order to compete effectively, which would increase our costs. 32 Table of Contents Consolidation in the Healthcare Industry Could Adversely Affect Our Future Revenues and Operating Results. The healthcare industry has experienced a significant amount of consolidation. As a result of this consolidation, competition to provide goods and services to customers has increased. In addition, group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks have served to concentrate purchasing decisions for some customers, which has also placed pricing pressure on medical device suppliers. Further consolidation in the industry could exert additional pressure on the prices of our products. Our Research, Development and Commercialization Efforts May Not Succeed and Our Competitors May Develop and Commercialize More Effective or Successful Products. In order to remain competitive, we must regularly commit substantial resources to research and development and the commercialization of new or enhanced products. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from product inception to commercial launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage there is a substantial risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a new or enhanced product in which we have invested substantial time and money. During 2015, 2014 and 2013, we incurred $11.7 million, $12.1 million and $10.9 million, respectively, in research and development expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant costs related to our research and development activities. Successful products require significant development and investment, including testing to demonstrate their performance capabilities, cost-effectiveness or other benefits prior to commercialization. In addition, regulatory approval must be obtained before most products may be sold. Additional development efforts on these products may be required before any regulatory authority will review them. As noted above, regulatory authorities may not approve these products for commercial sale or may substantially delay or condition approval. In addition, even if a product is developed and all applicable regulatory approvals are obtained, there may be little or no market for the product. Moreover, we may spend a significant amount of money on advertising and fail to develop a market for the product. Other factors that could affect the success of our efforts include our ability to manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, whether we can obtain necessary intellectual property rights and protection and our ability to obtain reimbursement authorizations in the markets where the product will be sold. Accordingly, if we fail to develop and gain commercial acceptance for our products, or if competitors develop more effective products or a greater number of successful new products, customers may decide not to purchase our products or may purchase and use products developed by our competitors. This would result in a loss of revenues and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and business. Failure to Successfully Commercialize a Rapid Point–of-Care Ebola Test Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations and Business Prospects. We have completed development of a rapid, point-of-care Ebola antigen test using our OraQuick® technology platform. In 2015, under an EUA (Emergency Use Authorization) received from the FDA for this product, we sold $2.3 million of this product to the CDC for field testing. Despite this initial progress, there is no assurance that our test will perform at a level necessary to receive all of the regulatory approvals required for its use. In addition, it is possible that the FDA may revoke our EUA if it is determined that Ebola is no longer an emergency warranting that authorization. Such action would negatively affect our ability to sell the product. It is also uncertain whether, and to what degree, we will be successful in obtaining sustainable purchase commitments for our Ebola test. Failure to successfully obtain the required regulatory approvals or receive sustainable and significant purchase commitments for our Ebola test could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. 33 Table of Contents Failure to Achieve Our Financial and Strategic Objectives Could Have a Material Adverse Impact on Our Business Prospects. As a result of any number of risk factors identified in this Annual Report, no assurance can be given that we will be successful in implementing our financial and strategic objectives, including our efforts to increase sales of our products, achieve the performance milestones under our HCV agreement with AbbVie, or continue growing our molecular collection systems business. In addition, the funds for research, clinical development and other projects have in the past come primarily from our business operations. If our business slows and we have less money available to fund research and development and clinical programs, we will have to decide at that time which programs to cut, and by how much. Similarly, if adequate financial, personnel, equipment or other resources are not available, we may be required to delay or scale back our business. Our operations will be adversely affected if our total revenue and gross profits do not correspondingly increase or if our technology, product, clinical and market development efforts are unsuccessful or delayed. Furthermore, our failure to successfully introduce new or enhanced products and develop new markets could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. If We Lose Our Key Personnel or Are Unable to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel as Necessary, Our Business Could be Harmed. Our success depends to a large extent upon the contributions of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain a sufficient number of qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products and other life science businesses. Our ability to recruit such employees will depend on a number of factors, including compensation, benefits, work location, the prospects of our Company, and the possibility for advancement within our organization. We generally do not enter into employment agreements requiring our employees to work for us for any specified period. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products, to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support research, development and clinical programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other qualified personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. Acquisitions or Investments May Not Generate the Expected Benefits and Could Disrupt Our Ongoing Business, Distract Our Management, Increase Our Expenses and Adversely Affect Our Business. We may pursue strategic acquisitions or investments as a way to expand our business. These activities, and their impact on our business, are subject to many risks, including the following: • Suitable acquisitions or investments may not be found or consummated on terms or schedules that are satisfactory to us or consistent with our objectives; • The benefits expected to be derived from an acquisition or investment may not materialize and could be affected by numerous factors, such as regulatory developments, insurance reimbursement, our inexperience with new businesses or markets, general economic conditions and increased competition; • We may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired company’s personnel, assets, management, information technology systems, accounting policies and practices, products and/or technology into our business; • Worse than expected performance of an acquired business may result in the impairment of intangible assets; • Acquisitions may require substantial expense and management time and could disrupt our business; 34 Table of Contents • We may not be able to accurately forecast the performance or ultimate impact of an acquired business; • An acquisition and subsequent integration activities may require greater capital and other resources than originally anticipated at the time of acquisition; • An acquisition may result in the incurrence of unexpected expenses, stockholder lawsuits, the dilution of our earnings or our existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, or potential losses from undiscovered liabilities not covered by an indemnification from the seller(s) of the acquired business; • An acquisition may result in the loss of our or the acquired company’s key personnel, customers, distributors or suppliers; and • An acquisition of a foreign business may involve additional risks, including, but not limited to, foreign currency exposure, liability or restrictions under foreign laws or regulations, and our inability to successfully assimilate differences in foreign business practices or overcome language or cultural barriers. The occurrence of one or more of the above or other factors may prevent us from achieving all or a significant part of the benefits expected from an acquisition or investment. This may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business or otherwise achieve our financial and strategic objectives. Our Revenues Could be Affected by Third-Party Reimbursement Policies and Potential Cost Constraints. The end-users of our products include hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Use of our products could be adversely impacted if end-users do not receive adequate reimbursement for the cost of our products from their patients’ healthcare insurers or payors. Our net sales could also be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors, including in particular the level of reimbursement for our products. In the United States, hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payors, such as private health insurance plans, Medicare and Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the product and procedure. The overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the United States in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the United States or international markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, and regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors, may reduce the demand for our products or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Changes in Healthcare Regulation Could Affect Our Revenues, Costs and Financial Condition. In recent years, there have been numerous initiatives at the federal and state level for comprehensive reforms affecting the payment for, the availability of and reimbursement for healthcare services in the United States. These initiatives have ranged from proposals to fundamentally change federal and state healthcare reimbursement programs, including providing comprehensive healthcare coverage to the public under government-funded programs, to minor modifications to existing programs. One example is the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, the Federal healthcare reform law enacted in 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”). Similar reforms may occur internationally. Legislative and regulatory bodies are likely to continue to pursue healthcare reform initiatives and may continue to reduce funding in an effort to lower overall federal healthcare spending. The ultimate content and timing of any healthcare reform legislation and its resulting impact on us are impossible to predict. If significant reforms are made to the healthcare system in the United States, or in other jurisdictions, those reforms may increase our costs or otherwise have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 35 Table of Contents The Affordable Care Act imposes a 2.3% excise tax on certain transactions, including U.S. sales of many medical devices, which includes domestic sales of certain of our products. This new tax became effective in January 2013. However, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2016, which was enacted late 2015, suspended the tax beginning January 1, 2016, with the suspension ending December 31, 2017. It is unclear whether and to what extent this tax will impact our business if and when the suspension is lifted. New or Changed Testing Guidelines Could Affect Sales of Our Diagnostic Products. From time to time, governmental agencies such as the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (“CDC”) issue diagnostic testing guidelines or recommendations, which can affect the usage of our HIV and HCV testing products. For example, domestic professional OraQuick® HIV sales decreased 17% from 2014 to 2015, in part due to customer migration to automated fourth generation HIV immunoassays performed in a laboratory, as recommended under new testing guidelines issued by the CDC. In addition, some states have promulgated, or may in the future promulgate, laws and regulations that affect HIV or HCV testing. The issuance of new laws or guidelines, or changes in existing laws or guidelines, and the manner in which these new or changed laws and guidelines are interpreted and applied by healthcare practitioners, could impact the degree to which our OraQuick® rapid HIV and HCV testing products are used. New or changed laws or guidelines could affect the number of people tested, the frequency of testing and whether testing products such as our OraQuick® HIV and HCV tests are used broadly for screening large populations or in a more limited capacity as a confirmatory test or otherwise. These factors could in turn affect the level of sales of our products and our results of operations. Reductions in Government Funding and Research Budgets Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Financial Results. We sell our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 and OraQuick® HCV tests into the public health market which consists of state, county and other governmental public health agencies, community based organizations, service organizations and similar entities. We also sell these products into the hospital market. Many of these customers depend to a significant degree on grants or funding provided by governmental agencies to run their operations including programs that use our products. In international markets, we often sell our products to or through foreign governmental agencies or parties funded by such agencies. Our subsidiary, DNAG, sells many of its products to researchers at academic institutions, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, government laboratories and private foundations. Many of DNAG’s research customers are dependent for their funding on grants from U.S. governmental agencies such as the U.S. National Institutes of Health and agencies in other countries. The level of available government grants or funding in the U.S. and elsewhere is unpredictable and may be affected by various factors including economic conditions, legislative and regulatory developments, political changes, civil unrest and changing priorities for research and development activities. Any reduction or delay in government funding as a result of legislative or regulatory changes or other factors, could cause our customers to delay, reduce or forego purchases of our products. Increases in Demand for Our Products Could Require Us to Expend Considerable Resources or Harm Our Customer Relationships if We are Unable to Meet That Demand. If we experience significant or unexpected increases in the demand for our products, we and our suppliers may not be able to meet that demand without expending additional capital resources. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our suppliers may be unable or unwilling to expend the necessary capital resources or otherwise expand their capacity. In addition, new manufacturing equipment or facilities may require FDA approval before they can be used to manufacture our products. To the extent we are unable to obtain or are delayed in obtaining such approvals, our ability to meet the demand for our products could be adversely affected. 36 Table of Contents If we or our suppliers are unable to develop necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our sales could be adversely affected. If we fail to increase production volumes in a cost effective manner or if we experience lower than anticipated yields or production problems as a result of changes that we or our suppliers make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand, we could experience shipment delays or interruptions and increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Unexpected increases in demand for our products may require us to obtain additional raw materials in order to manufacture products to meet the demand. Some raw materials require significant ordering lead time and some are currently obtained from a sole supplier or a limited group of suppliers. We have long-term supply agreements with certain of these suppliers, but these long-term agreements involve risks for us, such as our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of raw materials and components and our reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. It is also possible that one or more of these suppliers may become unwilling or unable to deliver materials to us. Any shortfall in our supply of raw materials and components, or our inability to quickly and cost-effectively obtain alternative sources for this supply, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet increased demand for our products. This could negatively affect our total revenues or cost of sales and related profits. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products could also harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We Rely on Information Technology in Our Operations and Any Material Failure, Inadequacy, Interruption or Security Breach of that Technology Could Harm Our Ability to Efficiently Operate Our Business. We rely heavily on enterprise resource planning and other complex information technology systems across our operations and on the internet, including for management of inventory, purchase orders, invoices, shipping, interactions with our third-party logistics provider, revenue and expense accounting, online business, consumer call support, and various other processes and transactions. Our ability to effectively manage our business, coordinate the production, distribution and sale of our products, respond to customer inquiries, and ensure the timely and accurate recording and disclosure of financial information depends significantly on the reliability and capacity of these systems and the internet. In addition, we rely on information technology systems for the development and implementation of a patient care database that we are providing as part of our services under the HCV co-promotion agreement with AbbVie. This database contains patient specific healthcare information and must be maintained and operated in accordance with stringent privacy and security requirements. The failure of any of the foregoing systems to operate effectively, problems with transitioning to upgraded or replacement systems, or disruptions in the operation of the internet, could cause delays in product sales and reduced efficiency of our operations. Significant expenditures could be required to remediate any such problem. Security Breaches and Other Disruptions Could Compromise Our Information, Expose Us To Liability and Harm Our Reputation and Business. In the ordinary course of our business, we collect and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal information, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, and personally identifiable information of our employees in our data centers and on our networks. Secure maintenance and transmission of this information is critical to our operations business strategy. We generally rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and domestically available monitoring to provide security for processing, transmitting and storing this sensitive date. Computer hackers may attempt to penetrate our computer systems or our third party IT service provider’s systems and, if successful, misappropriate personal or confidential information. In addition, a contractor or other 37 Table of Contents third party with whom we do business may attempt to circumvent our security measures or obtain such information, and may purposefully or inadvertently cause a breach involving sensitive information. While we will continue to evaluate and implement additional protective measures to reduce the risk and detect cyber incidents, cyberattacks are becoming more sophisticated and frequent and the techniques used in such attacks change rapidly. Despite our cybersecurity measures (including employee and third party training, monitoring of networks and systems and maintenance of back up of protective systems) which are continuously reviewed and upgraded, our information technology networks and infrastructure may still be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shut downs due to attack by hackers or breaches, voyeur or malfeasance. Even the most well protected IT networks, systems, and facilities remain potentially vulnerable because the techniques used in attempted security breaches are continually evolving and generally are not recognized until launched against a target or, in some cases, are designed not to be detected and, in fact, may not be detected. Any such compromise of our or our third party’s IT service providers’ data security and access, public disclosure, or loss of personal or confidential business information, could result in legal claims proceedings, liability under laws to protect, privacy of personal information, and regulatory penalties, disrupt our operations, require significant management attention and resources to remedy any damages that result, damage our reputation and customers willingness to transact business with us, any of which could adversely affect our business. Risks Relating to Collaborators The Use of Sole Supply Sources or Third-Party Suppliers For Critical Components of Our Products Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We currently purchase certain critical components of our products from sole supply sources or other third-party suppliers. For example, the biological antigens, nitrocellulose and certain other components required to make our OraQuick HIV, HCV and Ebola products are currently purchased from sole source suppliers. Our OraSure QuickFlu® test and the fully automated high-throughput drug assays sold with our Intercept i2® device are manufactured and supplied by sole source suppliers and the conjugates used in our MICROPLATE oral fluid drugs-of-abuse assays are obtained from third party suppliers. In addition, our subsidiary, DNAG, uses two third-party manufacturers to supply virtually all of its products, including its Oragene® line of collection kits. Many of the raw materials and components used in its products are also purchased from third parties, a critical one of which is obtained from a sole source supplier. If our third-party suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply or manufacture a required component or product or if they make changes to a component, product or manufacturing process or do not supply materials meeting our specifications, we may need to find another source and/or manufacturer. This could require that we perform additional development work and it may be difficult to find such an alternate supply source in a reasonable time period or on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We may also need to obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for the use of an alternative component or for changes to our products or manufacturing process. Completing that development and obtaining such approvals could require significant time and expense and such approvals may not occur at all. The availability of critical components and products from sole supply sources or other third parties could also reduce our control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. These events could either disrupt our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products into one or more markets or completely prevent us from doing so, and could increase our costs. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and business. Our Failure to Maintain Existing Distribution Channels, or Develop New Distribution Channels, May Result in Lower Revenues. We have marketed many of our products by collaborating with laboratories, diagnostic companies and distributors. Our sales depend to a substantial degree on our ability to sell products to these customers and on the marketing and distribution abilities of the companies with which we collaborate. 38 Table of Contents Relying on distributors or others to market and sell our products could harm our business for various reasons, including: • We may not be able to find suitable distributors to distribute our products on satisfactory terms; • Our distributors or other customers may not fulfill their contractual obligations to us or otherwise market and distribute our products in the manner or at the levels we expect; • We do not control the incentives provided by our distributors to their sales personnel and the effectiveness of these incentives could affect sales of our products; • Agreements with distributors may terminate prematurely due to disagreements or may result in litigation between the parties; • We may not be able to renew existing distribution agreements on acceptable terms or at all; • Our distributors may not devote sufficient resources or priority to the sale of our products; • Our distributors may prioritize their own private label products that compete with our products; • Our existing distributor relationships or contracts may preclude or limit us from entering into arrangements with other distributors; and • We may not be able to negotiate future distribution agreements on acceptable terms or at all. Although we will try to maintain and expand our business with distributors and customers and require that they fulfill their contractual obligations, there can be no assurance that such companies will do so or that new distribution channels will be available on satisfactory terms. As a result, our revenues and business could be adversely affected. We May Need Strategic Partners to Assist in Developing and Commercializing Some of Our Products. Although we may elect to pursue some product opportunities independently, opportunities that require a technology controlled by a third party, a significant level of investment for development and commercialization or a distribution network beyond our existing sales force may necessitate involving one or more strategic partners. Our strategy for development and commercialization of products may entail entering into arrangements with distributors or other corporate partners, universities, research laboratories, licensees and others. Relying on collaborative relationships could be risky to our business for a number of reasons, including: • We may be required to transfer material rights to such strategic partners, licensees and others; • Our collaborators may not devote sufficient resources or attach a sufficiently high priority to the success of our collaboration; • Our collaborators may not obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; • Our collaborators may be acquired by another company, decide to terminate our collaborative arrangement or become insolvent; • Our collaborators may develop technologies or components competitive with our products; • Disagreements with collaborators could result in the termination of the relationship or litigation; • Collaborators may not have sufficient capital resources; and • We may not be able to negotiate future collaborative arrangements, or renewals of existing collaborative agreements, on acceptable terms or at all. An important strategic arrangement is our HCV co-promotion agreement with AbbVie. Our ability to increase HCV sales and receive additional compensation under this agreement will depend on whether the 39 Table of Contents agreement continues through at least the end of its initial term and whether AbbVie fulfills its contractual obligations, including its obligation to detail our OraQuick® HCV test into the physician and specialty physician office markets and the success of those detailing efforts. While we generally expect that our collaborative partners will have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, there is no assurance that they will do so, either at the level required or at all, and the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities will be controlled by others. Reliance on strategic agreements can also make it difficult to accurately forecast our future revenues operating results. There can be no assurance that the expected revenues or profits will be fully derived from such arrangements. Actions of Third-Party Inventory Management and Logistics Providers Could Adversely Affect Our Ability to Supply Products to Our Customers. We use third-party logistics providers to store and manage our finished goods inventory and ship finished product to our customers. We have selected highly reputable providers with extensive experience in the logistics field for these services. However, in the event any of our providers lose or damage our products, experience a casualty or catastrophic event at a warehouse or otherwise fail to provide safe storage and timely handling and delivery of our products, we could incur additional costs, experience difficulty in supplying our products to our customers or suffer damage to our reputation in the industry. These events could, in turn, reduce our revenues and adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technology. Our industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent, trademark and trade secret protection, as well as other intellectual property rights, for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio or obtain licenses to patents and technologies both in the United States and in other countries. If we cannot continue to develop, obtain and protect intellectual property rights, our revenue and gross profits could be adversely affected. Moreover, our current and future licenses or other rights to patents and other technologies may not be adequate for the operation of our business. As appropriate, we intend to file patent applications and obtain patent protection for our proprietary technology. These patent applications and patents will cover, as applicable, compositions of matter for our products, methods of making those products, methods of using those products and apparatuses relating to the use or manufacture of those products. However, there have been changes to the patent laws and proposed changes to the rules of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, which may impact our ability to protect our technology and enforce our intellectual property rights. For example, in 2011, the U.S. enacted sweeping changes to the U.S. patent system under the Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (the “AIA”), including changes that would transition the U.S. from a “first-to-invent” system to a “first-to-file” system and alter the processes for challenging issued patents. These changes could increase the uncertainties and costs surrounding the prosecution of our patent applications and the enforcement or defense of our issued patents. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancements to protect our proprietary technology. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. Our employees and third-party consultants also sign agreements requiring that they assign to us interests in inventions and original expressions and any patents or copyrights arising from their work. However, these parties may not honor these agreements. 40 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that the process of filing patents, the laws governing trade secrets and proprietary information, or any agreements we enter into with employees, consultants, advisors or collaborators will provide adequate protection of our intellectual property rights. For example, employees, consultants and others who participate in the development of our products may breach their agreements with us regarding our intellectual property, and we may not have adequate remedies for the breach. We also may not be able to effectively protect our intellectual property rights in some foreign countries, as many countries do not offer the same level of legal protection for intellectual property as the United States. Furthermore, for a variety of reasons, we may decide not to file for patent, copyright or trademark protection outside of the U.S. Our trade secrets could become known through other unforeseen means. Notwithstanding our efforts to protect our intellectual property, our competitors may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or products that are equal or superior to our technology. Our competitors may also develop similar products without infringing on any of our intellectual property rights or design around our proprietary technologies. Moreover, issued patents remain in effect for a fixed period and after expiration will not provide protection of the inventions they cover. Once our patents expire, we may be faced with increased competition, which could reduce our revenues. We may also not be able to successfully protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Some of our employees, including scientific and management personnel, were previously employed by competing companies. Although we encourage and expect all of our employees to abide by any confidentiality agreement with a prior employer, competing companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. We may collaborate with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire part of the rights to any inventions or technical information derived from our collaboration with them. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining such licenses may require the payment of substantial amounts. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. We May Become Involved in Intellectual Property Disputes, Which Could Increase our Costs and Limit or Eliminate Our Ability to Sell Products or Use Certain Technologies. From time to time, we may seek to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights through litigation. In addition, there are a large number of patents and patent applications in our product areas, and additional patents may be issued to third parties relating to our product areas. We or our customers may be sued for infringement of patents or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights with respect to one or more of our products. Litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights is prevalent and is expected to continue. We may also have disputes with parties that license patents to us if we believe the license is no longer needed for our products or the licensed patents are no longer valid or enforceable. Our industry is characterized by a large number of patents, and the claims of these patents appear to overlap in many cases. As a result, there is a significant amount of uncertainty regarding the extent of patent protection and infringement. Companies may have pending patent applications, which are typically confidential for the first eighteen months following filing, that cover technologies we incorporate in our products. Accordingly, we may be subjected to substantial damages for past infringement or be required to modify our products or stop selling them if it is ultimately determined that our products infringe a third party’s proprietary rights. In addition, governmental agencies could commence investigations or criminal proceedings against our employees or us relating to claims of misuse or misappropriation of another party’s proprietary rights. 41 Table of Contents Our involvement in litigation or other legal proceedings with respect to patents or other intellectual property and proprietary technology, either as a plaintiff or defendant, could adversely affect our revenues, market share, results of operations and business because: • As is common with major litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of managerial and financial resources; • Its outcome would be uncertain and a court may find that our patents are invalid or unenforceable in response to claims by another party or that the third-party patent claims are valid and infringed by our products; • An adverse outcome could subject us to the loss of the protection of our patents or to liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, reimbursement of litigation costs and legal fees, special and punitive damages, or future royalty payments, any of which could significantly affect our future earnings; • Failure to obtain a necessary license upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop or acquire; • The pendency of any litigation may in and of itself cause our distributors and customers to reduce or terminate purchases of our products; and • A court could award a preliminary and/or permanent injunction, which would prevent us from selling our current or future products. We may indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if our products or activities have actually or allegedly infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party’s proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties, such as contractors, suppliers or customers, and we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. These other parties may also not be required or financially able to indemnify us in the event that an infringement or misappropriation claim is asserted against us. We may also become involved in other types of disputes regarding intellectual property rights, including state, federal or foreign court litigation, and patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Opposition or revocation proceedings could be instituted in a foreign patent office as well. Under the AIA, various forms of post issuance patent review proceedings have been authorized, including an inter-parties review process. These proceedings permit certain persons to challenge the validity of a patent on the grounds that it was known from the prior art. The filing of such proceedings, or the issuance of an adverse decision in such proceedings, could result in the loss of valuable patent rights that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. The Sales Potential for Our OraQuick® Products Could be Affected by Our Ability to Obtain Certain Licenses and by Future Litigation. Our OraQuick® test platform is a lateral flow assay that tests for specific antibodies or other substances. The term “lateral flow” generally refers to a test strip through which a sample flows and which provides a test result on a portion of the strip downstream from where the sample is applied. There are numerous patents in the United States and other countries which claim lateral flow assay methods and devices. There are also patents that cover the type of analyte or antibody (i.e., HIV-1, HIV-2, HCV, Ebola, etc.) which our OraQuick® test is designed to detect. Some of these patents may broadly cover aspects of our OraQuick® test and are in force in the United States and other countries. We may not be able to make or sell the OraQuick® test in the United States or other countries where these patents are in force. 42 Table of Contents We have obtained licenses under several lateral flow patents, and patents covering assays directed at specific analytes, which we believe are sufficient to permit the manufacturing and sale of our OraQuick® products as currently contemplated. However, licenses under additional patents may be required and it is possible that a third party could seek to enforce one or more patents against us. If we are unable to successfully defend against or resolve patent infringement litigation or it is determined that a license is required and it is not possible to negotiate or otherwise obtain a license agreement on reasonable terms under a necessary patent, our ability to manufacture and sell OraQuick® products and develop and commercialize new applications using the same technology could be limited and we may incur increased costs or damages. In such case, we may be able to modify an OraQuick® product to avoid the claim of infringement or the need for a license. However, this alternative could preclude or limit our ability to sell the OraQuick® product in the United States and other markets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and business. Risks Relating to Products, Marketing and Sales Our Future Success Depends Upon Market Acceptance of Our Existing and Future Products. Our future success will depend, in part, on the market acceptance, and the timing of such acceptance, of new products such as our OraQuick® HCV test, OraQuick® In-Home HIV test, OraQuick® Ebola test, OMNIgene® • Gut and OMNIgene® • Sputum product offerings, and other new products or technologies that may be developed or acquired. To achieve market acceptance, we and/or our distributors will likely be required to undertake substantial marketing efforts and spend significant funds to inform potential customers and the public of the existence and perceived benefits of these products. In addition, governmental funding for the purchase of our products may be needed to help create market acceptance and expand the use of our products. There may be limited evidence on which to evaluate the market reaction to products that may be developed and our marketing efforts for new products may not be successful. It is also possible that governmental funding may be limited for new products, such as our OraQuick® HCV and Ebola tests or the new sample collection and stabilization products being commercialized by DNAG. As such, there can be no assurance that any products will obtain significant market acceptance and fill the market need that is perceived to exist on a timely basis, or at all. If Acceptance and Adoption of Oral Fluid Testing and Collection Products Does Not Continue, Our Future Results May Suffer. We have made significant progress in gaining acceptance of oral fluid testing products, particularly for (i) HIV testing in the public health, hospital, insurance and other markets, and (ii) drugs-of-abuse testing in the workplace and criminal justice markets. Our subsidiary, DNAG, has also made significant progress in gaining acceptance of oral fluid collection products that are used with molecular testing applications. However, the degree of acceptance for these products is uncertain, and one or more markets may resist the adoption of oral fluid products as a replacement for other testing or collection methods in use today. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to expand the use of our oral fluid testing products in these or other markets. Our Customers May Resist Adoption of Rapid Point-of-Care Diagnostic Testing. Sales of our rapid point-of-care diagnostic products, such as our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2, OraQuick® HCV and OraQuick® In-Home HIV tests, are an important part of our business. Rapid point-of-care tests are beneficial because, among other things, they can be administered by healthcare providers in their own facilities or used by consumers at home without sending samples to central laboratories and can help ensure that test results are delivered to the individuals being tested. However, clinical reference laboratories and hospital-based laboratories currently provide the majority of diagnostic tests used by physicians and other healthcare providers in the U.S. In certain international markets 43 Table of Contents such as Europe, diagnostic testing is performed primarily by centralized laboratories. Our future sales will depend, in part, on our ability to expand market acceptance of rapid point-of-care testing by physicians, other healthcare providers and consumers and successfully compete against laboratory testing methods and products. We expect that clinical reference and other hospital-based laboratories will continue to compete vigorously against our rapid point-of-care products. Even if we can demonstrate that our products are more cost effective, save time, or have better performance or other benefits, physicians, other healthcare providers and consumers may resist changing to rapid point-of-care tests and instead may choose to obtain diagnostic results through laboratory tests. Our failure to achieve and expand market acceptance of our rapid point-of-care diagnostic tests with customers would have a negative effect on our future sales growth. We Expect to Face Intense Competition From Other Providers of Diagnostic Tests and Sample Collection Products. Our rapid point-of-care tests compete with similar point-of-care products made by our competitors. This competition is particularly evident with respect to our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test. In addition, the Oragene® product line sold by our subsidiary, DNAG, competes against other molecular collection products, such as blood collection kits and buccal swabs. There are a number of competitors making investments in competing technologies and products, and a number of our competitors may have a competitive advantage because of their greater financial, technical, research and other resources. Some competitors offer broader product lines, aggressively discount prices for their products and may have greater name recognition than we have. If our competitors’ products take market share from our products through more effective marketing or competitive pricing, our revenues, margins and operating results could be adversely affected. In addition, our revenues and operating results could be negatively impacted if some of our customers internally develop or acquire their own sample collection devices and use those devices in place of our products in order to reduce costs. Sales of Our OraSure QuickFlu® Test May be Affected by Factors Beyond Our Control. We sell a rapid flu test under the tradename OraSure QuickFlu®, primarily in the U.S. hospital and public health markets. A number of factors that are beyond our control could affect sales of this product, including: • Variability in the timing of the onset, length and severity of the flu season, which typically occurs from November of one year to May of the following year; • Competition from other rapid flu tests in the markets we serve; • Deficiencies in the manufacture, design or performance of the product or failure by the manufacturer to meet applicable quality and regulatory standards; • The inability of our supplier to provide sufficient quantities of the product; • Changes in the types or strains of influenza during a particular flu season; and • Lower than expected market penetration of the OraSure QuickFlu® test. Our Inability to Carry Out Certain of Our Marketing and Sales Plans May Make it Difficult for Us to Grow or Maintain Our Business. We have implemented in the past, and we intend to implement in the future, an aggressive sales and marketing plan to expand sales of our products. Specifically, we will continue to expand the impact of our direct field sales force, use third-party distributors and manufacturers’ sales representatives, and implement other sales and marketing programs. If we are unable to successfully implement these programs or modify these programs in response to evolving market and economic conditions, we may be unable to grow and our business could suffer. 44 Table of Contents Our Sales Cycles Can be Lengthy, and May Depend on Public Funding, Which Can Cause Variability and Unpredictability in Our Operating Results. The sales cycles for certain of our products can be lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it more difficult to accurately forecast revenues in a given period and may cause revenues and operating results to vary from period to period. Sales of our products often involve purchasing decisions by large public and private institutions, may require many levels of approval and may be dependent on economic or political conditions and the availability of grants or funding from governmental or public health agencies which can vary from period to period in both amount and timing. For example, in past years our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test has been purchased through bulk procurement or other funding provided by governmental agencies. Our OraQuick® HCV test has been purchased by customers who receive government funding, and we believe increased funding from the CDC and other agencies will be required to substantially increase the volume of HCV testing, especially in the public health market. There can be no assurance that purchases or funding from these agencies will occur or continue, especially if current negative economic conditions continue or intensify. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions at all or on a schedule and in an amount consistent with our objectives. We May Face Product Liability Claims for Injuries Resulting From the Use of Our Products. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. There is no assurance that we would be successful in defending any product liability lawsuits brought against us. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, product liability claims could result in: • Decreased demand for our products; • Lost revenues; • Damage to our image or reputation; • Costs related to litigation; • Increased product liability insurance costs; • Diversion of management time and attention; and • Incurrence of damages payable to plaintiffs. We are selling cryosurgical products in the consumer or OTC market in the United States and certain countries and we may expand OTC sales of these products into other countries. We also sell the OraQuick® In-Home HIV test in the United States OTC market, and we intend to offer HIV self-tests to consumers internationally. We believe the sale of products in the OTC market increases our potential exposure to product liability and other claims. The Insurance We Purchase to Cover Our Potential Business Risks May be Inadequate. Although we believe that our present product liability and other insurance coverage is sufficient to cover our current estimated exposures, we cannot be sure that we will not incur liabilities in excess of our policy limits. In addition, although we believe that we will be able to continue to obtain adequate coverage in the future, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so at acceptable costs. We Could Suffer Monetary Damages, Incur Substantial Costs or be Prevented From Using Technologies Important to Our Products as a Result of Legal Proceedings. We have been and in the future may become involved in various legal proceedings arising out of our businesses. These may include commercial disputes, negligence claims or various other lawsuits arising in the ordinary 45 Table of Contents course of our business, including employment matters. Such lawsuits can seek damages, sometimes in substantial amounts, for commercial or personal injuries allegedly suffered and can include claims for punitive or other special damages. An adverse ruling or rulings in one or more such lawsuits could, individually or in the aggregate, result in the termination or modification of a material contract or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our sales, operations or financial performance. Performance of Our Products May Affect Our Revenues, Stock Price and Reputation. Our products are generally sold with labeling that contains performance claims approved or cleared by the FDA or other regulators. However, our products may not perform as expected. For example, a defect in one of our diagnostic products or a failure by a customer to follow proper testing procedures, may cause the product to report inaccurate information such as a false positive result or a false negative result. A false positive or negative result can also occur even when there is no apparent product defect and the customer has apparently used our product properly. Identifying the root cause of a product performance or quality issue can be difficult and time consuming. If our products fail to perform in accordance with the applicable label claims or otherwise in accordance with the expectations or needs of our customers, customers may switch to a competing product or otherwise stop using our products, and our revenues could be adversely affected. Under such circumstances, we may be required to implement shipment holds or product recalls and incur warranty obligations, which would increase our costs. In addition, poor performance by one or more of our products and publicity surrounding such performance could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our continuing ability to sell products and the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. Our International Presence May Increase Our Risks and Expose Our Business to Regulatory, Cultural or Other Restraints. We seek to increase revenue derived from international sales of our products. Our international sales accounted for $23.2 million or 19% of consolidated net revenues in 2015, $24.2 million or 23% of consolidated net revenues in 2014, and $21.7 million or 22% of consolidated net revenues in 2013. In addition, our molecular collection systems business, which accounted for $29.9 million or 25% of consolidated net revenues in 2015, is operated in Canada. A number of factors could adversely affect the performance of our business and/or cause us to incur substantially increased costs because of our international presence and sales, including those set forth below: • Uncertainty in the application of foreign laws and the interpretation of contracts with foreign parties; • The potential for inconsistent imposition of legal and regulatory requirements; • Cultural and political differences that favor local competitors or make it difficult to effectively market, sell and gain acceptance of our products; • Inexperience in international markets and territories and difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; • Exchange rates, currency fluctuations, tariffs and other barriers, extended payment terms and dependence on international distributors or representatives; • Regulatory requirements (including compliance with applicable customs regulations) and the need for reimbursement approvals; • Trade protection measures, trade sanctions and import/export licensing requirements; • The inability to obtain or maintain ISO certification for our or our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities; • Our inability to obtain or maintain regulatory approvals or registrations for our products; 46 Table of Contents • Our inability to identify international distributors and negotiate acceptable terms for distribution agreements; • Diversion to the U.S. of our products that are sold at lower prices into international markets; • The loss of one or more distributors and difficulties or delays in obtaining new or transferred product registrations or approvals for use by a replacement distributor; • An increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by a foreign subsidiary; • The creditworthiness of foreign distributors and customers and difficulty in collecting foreign accounts receivable; • Difficulty of enforcing contractual obligations or recovering damages under foreign legal systems; • Economic conditions, political instability, the absence of available funding sources, terrorism, civil unrest, war and natural disasters in foreign countries; • Long sales cycles in international markets, especially for sales to foreign governments, quasi-governmental agencies and international public health agencies; • The sale of competing products by foreign competitors at prices at or below the prices we offer for our products; • Restrictions on our ability to repatriate investments and earnings from foreign operations; • Changes in shipping costs; • The unavailability of licenses to certain patents in force in a foreign country which cover our products; and • Reduced protection for, or enforcement of, our patents and other intellectual property rights in foreign countries. In addition, we have contracted with a third party in Thailand for the manufacture of a portion of our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 tests, and all of DNAG’s products are produced in Canada. We may enter into agreements to manufacture these or other products in additional foreign countries as well. However, economic, cultural and political conditions and foreign regulatory requirements may slow or prevent the manufacture of our products in countries other than the United States. Interruption of the supply of our products could reduce revenues or cause us to incur significant additional expenses in finding an alternative source of supply. Foreign currency fluctuations and economic conditions in foreign countries could also increase the costs of manufacturing our products in foreign countries. Our Government Contracts and Related Administrative Processes Are Subject To Audits and Cost Adjustments by the Federal Government We sell some of our products to the federal government and we are receiving federal funding related to our OraQuick® Ebola rapid antigen test. As a result, we must comply with laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts. A violation of specific laws and regulations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties or the termination of our contracts, as well as suspension or debarment. These fines and penalties could be imposed for failing to file procurement integrity and bidding rules, employing improper billing practices or otherwise failing to follow rules relating to billing on cost-plus contracts, receiving or paying kickbacks, or filing false claims, among other potential violations. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if allegations of impropriety related to such contracts are made against us. In addition, our contracts with the U.S. government are subject to future funding and are subject to the right of the government to terminate the contracts in whole or in part for its convenience. There is pressure for the U.S. government to reduce spending. The non-appropriation of funds or the termination for the government’s 47 Table of Contents convenience of our contracts could negatively affect our financial results. For U.S. government contracts that include options, such as our Ebola funding contract with BARDA, the U.S. government generally has the unilateral right not to exercise such options and may not exercise an option if the agency is not satisfied with our performance under the contract or does not receive funding to continue the program, among other reasons. Federal government agencies can audit and investigate government contracts and the administrative processes and systems of government contractors. These agencies can review our performance on government contracts, pricing practices, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. They can also review our compliance with government regulations and policies and the adequacy of our internal control systems and policies, including our purchasing, accounting, estimating, compensation and management information processes and systems. Any costs found to be improperly allocated to a specific government contract, unallowable or unreasonable will not be reimbursed, and any such costs already reimbursed may be required to be refunded and certain penalties may be imposed. Moreover, if any administrative process or system related to such contracts is found not to comply with governmental requirements, we may be subjected to government scrutiny that could delay or otherwise adversely affect our ability to compete for or perform government contracts or collect our revenue in a timely manner. An unfavorable outcome of an audit of our government contracts could adversely affect our results of operations. Risks Relating to the Economy, Our Financial Results, Investments, Credit Facilities and Need for Financing Economic Volatility and Disruption Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations, Cash Flow and Financial Condition or Those of Our Customers and Suppliers. Volatile economic conditions may occur again or continue in the future. These conditions could adversely affect our financial performance and condition or those of our customers and suppliers. These circumstances could also adversely affect our access to liquidity needed to conduct or expand our business or conduct future acquisitions or make other discretionary investments. Many of our customers rely on public funding provided by federal, state and local governments, and this funding has been and may continue to be reduced or deferred as a result of economic conditions. These circumstances may adversely impact our customers and suppliers, which, in turn, could adversely affect their ability to purchase our products or supply us with necessary equipment, raw materials or components. Even with the improvement of economic conditions, it may take time for our customers and suppliers to establish new budgets and return to normal purchasing and shipping patterns. We cannot predict the reoccurrence of any economic slowdown or the strength or sustainability of an economic recovery. We Have a History of Losses and May Not Be Able to Achieve Sustained Profitability. We experienced annual net losses during the five years prior to 2015. In addition, as of December 31, 2015, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $170.2 million. Even though we achieved profitability in 2015 there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve or sustain profitability in the future. Our ability to continue profitable operations in the future will be dependent upon a number of factors including, without limitation, the following: • Our ability to increase use of our OraQuick® HCV test and continue to receive compensation under our HCV co-promotion agreement with AbbVie; • The potential for AbbVie to unilaterally terminate our HCV co-promotion agreement on or after December 31, 2016; • Creating market acceptance for and selling increasing volumes of our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test, OraQuick® HCV test and other products in the United States and internationally; • Our ability to continue growing our molecular collection systems business; 48 Table of Contents • The level of expenditures we are required to make in order to develop, obtain regulatory approvals for and successfully commercialize our new products; • Our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies; • Our ability to successfully launch new products after receipt of required regulatory approvals or the acquisition of rights to those products; • The degree to which our major distributors comply with their contractual obligations, including minimum purchase commitments; • Whether we are successful in obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals and registrations for our new products; • The level of competition, including the degree to which competitors sell lower priced products or more attractive offerings to compete with our products; • Changes in economic conditions in domestic or international markets, such as economic downturns, reduced demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; • Failure to achieve our targets for growth in revenues; • Changes in distributor buying patterns or a buildup of significant quantities in our distributors’ inventories or distribution channels; and • The costs and results of patent infringement, product liability and other litigation or claims asserted against us. We May Experience Fluctuations in Our Financial Results or Fail to Meet Our Financial Projections. Our operating results can fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could cause our growth or financial performance to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts. Our financial projections for future periods are based on a number of assumptions, including estimated demand for our products. However, sales to our distributors and other customers may fall short of expectations because of lower than estimated customer demand or other factors, including continued volatility and disruption in economic conditions, increasing competition, reduced governmental funding and other circumstances described elsewhere in this Annual Report. Infrequent, unusual or unexpected changes in revenues or costs could also contribute to the variability of our financial results. Customers in the markets we serve often submit a high percentage of purchase orders in the third month of a calendar quarter. Although this can vary from quarter to quarter, many customers make purchase decisions late in a quarter due to budgetary or financial requirements. In addition, certain governmental customers must fully spend budgeted funds by the end of their fiscal year or risk losing these funds, which can contribute to fluctuations in our sales from year-to-year. This can make it difficult to accurately forecast whether we will achieve our quarterly sales forecasts and can cause variability in our operating results. In addition, our products provide different contributions to our gross margin. Accordingly, our operating results could also fluctuate and be affected by the mix of products sold and the relative prices and gross margin contribution of those products. Failure to achieve operating results consistent with the expectations of investors and securities analysts could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our Common Stock. Our Estimates or Judgments Relating to Critical Accounting Policies Are Based on Assumptions That Can Change or Prove to be Incorrect. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The 49 Table of Contents preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our financial statements, including those related to: • Revenue recognition; • Potential impairment of long-lived and intangible assets including goodwill; • Customer sales returns and allowances; • Allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable; • Reserve for inventory write-downs; • Stock-based compensation; • Income taxes; and • Contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions. If our operating results fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the price of our Common Stock may decline. Changes in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates Could Negatively Affect Our Operating Results. Our financial statements are stated in U.S. Dollars and, historically, most of our international sales have also been denominated in U.S. Dollars. As a result, in the past our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk has not been material. Nonetheless, these sales are subject to currency risks, since changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In addition, the revenues and expenses of our subsidiary, DNAG, are recorded in Canadian Dollars and certain of its international sales are denominated in local currencies, including the Euro, British Pound and Australian Dollar. Revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for purposes of reporting our consolidated financial results. Our expectation is that the DNAG business will continue to grow and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates may be more significant than in past years. Exchange rate fluctuations may affect DNAG’s revenues and expenses and the translation of DNAG’s financial results into U.S. Dollars. Favorable movement in exchange rates have benefited us in prior periods. For example, in 2015, DNAG generated total revenues of U.S. $29.9 million and incurred total operating expenses of $17.0 million. As a result of a favorable change in the U.S./Canadian dollar exchange rate, DNAG’s cost of goods sold and operating expenses were reduced by approximately $800,000 and $2.0 million, respectively, in 2015. Where there are unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations, our consolidated financial statements including our balance sheet, revenues and results of operations, could be negatively affected. In addition, fluctuations in exchange rates could affect year-to-year comparability of operating results. In the past, we have not generally entered into hedging instruments to manage our currency exchange rate risk, but we may need to do so in the future. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be successful. If we are unable to successfully hedge against unfavorable foreign currency exchange rate movements, our consolidated financial results may be adversely impacted. 50 Table of Contents Changes in Tax Laws or Their Application Could Adversely Affect Our Results of Operations. Changes in tax laws or their application could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Such changes could affect applicable tax rates, utilization of tax loss carryforwards, and treatment of inter-company debt and interest payments. We May Require Future Additional Capital. Our future liquidity and ability to meet our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • The costs, scope and timing of strategic acquisitions; • The costs and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities; • The timing and success of the commercial launch of new products; • The extent to which we gain or expand market acceptance for existing, new or enhanced products; • The costs and timing of the expansion of our manufacturing capacity; • The success of our research and product development efforts; • The time, cost and degree of success of conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals; • The magnitude of capital expenditures; • Changes in existing and potential relationships with distributors and other business partners; • The costs involved in obtaining and enforcing patents, proprietary rights and necessary licenses; • The costs and liability associated with patent infringement or other types of litigation; and • Competing technological and market developments; If additional financing is needed, we may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or other securities or through bank borrowings. There can be no assurance that financing through the sale of securities, bank borrowings or otherwise will be available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all. Terrorist Attacks or Natural Disasters May Adversely Affect Our Business. Terrorist attacks or natural disasters, and subsequent governmental responses to these events, could cause economic instability. These actions could adversely affect economic conditions both within and outside the United States and reduce demand for our products. These events could disrupt the operations of our customers and suppliers and eliminate, reduce or delay our customers’ ability to purchase and use our products and our suppliers’ ability to provide raw materials and finished products. Although we have business interruption insurance, our facilities, including some pieces of manufacturing equipment and our computer systems, may be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Various types of disasters, including earthquakes, fires, floods and acts of terrorism, may affect our manufacturing facilities and computer systems. In the event our existing manufacturing facilities or computer systems are affected by man-made or natural disasters, we may have difficulty operating our business and may be unable to manufacture products for sale or meet customer demands or sales projections. If our manufacturing operations were curtailed or shut down entirely, it would seriously harm our business. 51 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Could Continue to be Volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, has fluctuated substantially in the past, may be volatile in the future and could experience substantial declines. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market for our Common Stock: • The performance of our business, including our efforts to increase sales of our OraQuick® HIV, HCV and molecular collection systems products and our OraQuick® In-Home HIV test; • The continuation of our HCV co-promotion agreement with AbbVie and the successful execution of other strategic arrangements; • Future announcements concerning us and our products, including with respect to significant acquisitions, strategic collaborations and joint ventures; • Clinical results with respect to our products or those of our competitors; • The status of clinical studies and pending submissions for required regulatory approvals; • The announcement of regulatory or enforcement actions by the FDA or other agencies against us, our products or one or more of our customers; • The gain or loss of significant contracts and availability of funding for the purchase of our products; • Delays in the development, regulatory approval or commercialization of new or enhanced products; • Legislative developments and industry or competitive trends; • Disputes or developments with key customers, distributors or suppliers; • Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • Litigation or threatened litigation; • Complaints or concerns about the performance or safety of our products and publicity about those issues, including publicity expressed through social media or otherwise over the internet; • Failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts and comments or opinions about us by securities analysts or major stockholders; • Governmental regulation; • Changes in the level of competition; • Loss of or declines in sales to major distributors or customers or changes in the mix of products sold; • The relatively low trading volume for our Common Stock; • Period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • General market and economic conditions; and • Terrorist attacks, civil unrest, war and national disasters. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of our Common Stock, as well as the stock of many companies in the diagnostics and life sciences industries. Often, price fluctuations are unrelated to the operating performance of the specific companies whose stock is affected. 52 Table of Contents In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s stock, securities class action litigation has occurred against the issuing company. If we were subject to this type of litigation in the future, we could incur substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and earnings. Any adverse determination in this type of litigation could also subject us to significant liabilities. Future Sales of Our Common Stock by Existing Stockholders, Executive Officers or Directors Could Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock and Make It More Difficult For Us to Sell Stock in the Future. Sales of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. We are unable to estimate the number of shares of our Common Stock that may actually be resold in the public market since this will depend on the market price for our Common Stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. We have a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our Common Stock. If one or more of these stockholders sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our Common Stock could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our executive officers or non-employee members of our Board of Directors could sell shares of our Common Stock during an open trading window or pursuant to a 10b5-1 sales plan under our Insider Trading Policy. These transactions and the perceived reasons for these transactions could have a negative effect on the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. Investor Confidence and Share Value May be Adversely Impacted if We and/or Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Conclude That Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is Not Effective. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring us, as a public company, to include a report in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of these internal controls. We expect that our internal controls will continue to evolve as our business activities change. Although we seek to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in an effort to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. In addition, the overall quality of our internal controls may be affected by the internal control over financial reporting implemented by any business we acquire and our ability to assess and successfully integrate the internal controls of any such business. If, during any year, our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, tested or assessed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then it may issue a report that is qualified. We also could conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. These events could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and effectiveness of our internal controls, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. Because We Do Not Intend to Pay Cash Dividends on Our Common Stock, an Investor in Our Common Stock Will Benefit Only if it Appreciates in Value. We currently intend to retain our current earnings and future earnings, if any, to finance the expansion of our business and do not expect to pay any cash dividends on our Common Stock in the foreseeable future. As a 53 Table of Contents result, the success of an investment in our Common Stock will depend entirely upon any future appreciation. There is no guarantee that our Common Stock will appreciate in value or even maintain the price at which investors purchased their shares. Certain Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws and Under Delaware Law Could Make a Third-Party Acquisition of Us Difficult. Our Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. Future Sales of Shares of Our Common Stock Could Adversely Affect the Trading Price of Our Common Stock and Our Ability to Raise Funds in New Equity Offerings. Future sales of a substantial number of our shares of Common Stock or equity-related securities in the public market or privately, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our Common Stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. No prediction can be made as to the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of Common Stock or the availability of shares of Common Stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our Common Stock. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 