Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report, the information incorporated herein by reference and those we may make from time to time. Risks Relating to our Business Our limited operating history makes evaluation of our business difficult. We were originally incorporated in November 1998 and began selling products in July 1999. As an early stage company with limited operating history, we face risks and difficulties, such as challenges in accurate financial planning and forecasting as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. These difficulties are particularly evident with respect to the evaluation and prediction of the operating results and expenses of our studios, as we opened our first studio in November 2000 and have expanded from one studio at the end of 2001 to 56 studios as of December 31, 2005. Further, our limited operating history will make it difficult for investors and securities analysts who may choose to follow our common stock, if any, to evaluate our business, strategy and prospects. Our failure to address these risks and difficulties successfully would seriously harm our business. If we fail to offer merchandise that our customers find attractive, the demand for our products may be limited. In order for our business to be successful, our product offerings must be distinctive in design, useful to the customer, well made, affordable and generally not widely available from other retailers. We may not be successful in offering products that meet these requirements in the future. If our products become less popular with our customers, if other retailers, especially department stores or discount retailers, offer the same products or products similar to those we sell, or if demand generally for design products such as ours decreases or fails to grow, our sales may decline or we may be required to offer our products at lower prices. If customers buy fewer of our products or if we have to reduce our prices, our net sales will decline and our operating results would be affected adversely. In fiscal year 2006, we plan to offer substantially fewer promotional discounts than in fiscal year 2005. We have reduced the number of promotions in an effort to improve our gross margins, but this approach might harm our net sales and might not result in an increase in gross profit or operating income. We believe that our future growth will be substantially dependent on the continued increase in sales growth of existing core products, such as the Aeron® Chair and the Eames® Lounge Chair and Ottoman manufactured by 15 Table of Contents Herman Miller, Inc. and other design classics and new products, while at the same time maintaining or increasing our current gross margin rates. We may not be able to increase the growth of existing core and new products or successfully introduce new products or maintain or increase our gross margin rate in future periods. Failure to do so may adversely affect our business. Moreover, in order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers new, innovative and high quality design products on a continuous basis. These products must appeal to a wide range of residential and commercial customers whose preferences may change in the future. If we misjudge either the market for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for products we chose not to stock. In addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell our products at lower prices. This would have a negative effect on our business. The expansion of our studio operations could result in increased expenses with no guarantee of increased earnings. We plan to open between 10 to 15 new studios in each of fiscal year 2006 and 2007. We anticipate the costs associated with opening these new studios will be between approximately $4.0 million and $7.0 million in each of fiscal years 2006 and 2007. However, we may not be able to attain our target number of new studio openings, and any of the new studios that we open may not be profitable, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our ability to expand by opening new studios will depend in part on the following factors: • the availability of attractive studio locations; • our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms; • our ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas; • general economic conditions; and • availability of sufficient funds for expansion. Even though we plan to continue to expand the number of geographic areas in which our studios are located, we expect that our studio operations will remain concentrated in limited geographic areas. This concentration could increase our exposure to fluctuating customer demand, adverse weather conditions, competition, distribution problems and poor economic conditions in these regions. In addition, our catalog sales, online sales or existing studio sales in a specific region may decrease as a result of new studio openings in that region. In order to continue our expansion of studios, we will need to hire additional management and staff for our corporate offices and employees for each new studio. We must also expand our management information systems and distribution systems to serve these new studios. If we are unable to hire necessary personnel or grow our existing systems, our expansion efforts may not succeed and our operating results may suffer. Some of our expenses will increase with the opening of new studios, such as headcount and lease occupancy expenses. Moreover, as we increase inventory levels to provide studios with product samples and support the incremental sales generated from additional studios, our inventory expenses will increase. We may not be able to manage this increased inventory without decreasing our earnings. If studio sales are inadequate to support these new costs, our earnings will decrease. In addition, if we were to close any studio, whether because a studio is unprofitable or otherwise, we likely would be unable to recover our investment in leasehold improvements and equipment at that studio and would be liable for remaining lease obligations. We do not have long-term vendor contracts and as a result we may not have continued or exclusive access to products that we sell. All of the products that we offer are manufactured by third-party suppliers. We do not typically enter into formal exclusive supply agreements for our products and, therefore, have no contractual rights to exclusively 16 Table of Contents market and sell them. Since we do not have arrangements with any vendor or distributor that would guarantee the availability or exclusivity of our products from year to year, we do not have a predictable or guaranteed supply of these products in the future. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular products, our net sales will decline and our operating results would be harmed. Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are not within our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, disposable consumer income, recession and fears of recession, stock market volatility, war and fears of war, acts of terrorism, inclement weather, consumer debt, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions and political conditions, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security generally. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, thus reducing our net sales and adversely affecting our operating results. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to implement our growth strategy successfully. Our growth strategy primarily includes the following components: • open additional studios; • expand and edit product offerings; • increase marketing within and across our sales channels; and • expand market awareness and appreciation for design products. Any failure on our part to implement any or all of our growth strategies successfully would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We rely on our catalog operations, which could have significant cost increases and could have unpredictable results. Our success depends in part on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products effectively through the Design Within Reach catalog. In fiscal year 2005, phone sales totaled $22.3 million, representing 14.1% of our total net sales during such period. We believe that the success of our catalog operations depends on the following factors: • our ability to continue to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our customers; • our ability to achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • our ability to add new customers in a cost-effective manner; • our ability to design, produce and deliver appealing catalogs in a cost-effective manner; and • timely delivery of catalog mailings to our customers. Catalog production and mailings entail substantial paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs, including costs associated with catalog development and increased inventories. We incur nearly all of these costs prior to the mailing of each catalog. As a result, we are not able to adjust the costs incurred in connection with a particular mailing to reflect the actual performance of the catalog. Increases in costs of mailing, paper or printing would increase our costs and would adversely impact our earnings as we would be unable to pass such increases directly on to our customers or offset such increases by raising prices. If we were to experience a significant shortfall in anticipated sales from a particular mailing, and thereby not recover the costs associated with that mailing, our future results would be adversely affected. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, sales generated by each mailing, are affected by factors such as consumer preferences, 17 Table of Contents economic conditions, the timing of catalog mailings, the product mix in a particular catalog, the timely delivery by the postal system of our catalog mailings and changes in our merchandise mix, several of which may be outside our control. Furthermore, we have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. Customer response to our catalogs is dependent on merchandise assortment, merchandise availability and creative presentation, as well as the size and timing of delivery of the catalogs. If we are unable to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which would adversely affect our future operating results. We have made and will continue to make certain systems changes that might disrupt our supply chain operations and delay our release of financial results. Our success depends on our ability to source merchandise efficiently through appropriate systems and procedures. In May 2005, we converted our then existing information technology system to a new, custom-built system supporting our product sourcing, merchandise planning, forecasting, inventory management, product distribution and transportation and price management. These information technology systems also are used to generate information for our financial reporting. We encountered problems with the conversion, due in large part to the absence of rigorous testing of the new systems prior to implementation. In particular, the new systems do not contain mechanisms to automatically identify and correct or reject erroneous or incomplete data. These system problems resulted in our being unable to complete our fiscal year 2005 audit and file this Form 10-K in a timely manner. During the third quarter of 2005, we hired a consulting firm to assess the inadequacies of the system. As a result of that review process, we have decided to replace our current system. During the first quarter of 2006, we hired another consulting firm to clearly define and document the requirements for the new system. During the second quarter of 2006, we expect to finalize the specifications for the new system, hire a consulting firm and begin the process of developing, testing and implementing the new system. We are currently targeting an installation of the new system by early 2007. There are inherent risks associated with replacing our core systems, including supply chain disruptions that affect our ability to deliver products to our customers and delays in obtaining the information necessary for our financial reporting. We may not be able to successfully launch these new systems or launch them without supply chain disruptions or delays in releasing our financial results in the future. Any resulting supply chain disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we cannot produce timely and reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. Management has identified material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. As required by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 13a-15(b), we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2005. Based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that control deficiencies which constituted material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2005. As a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2005 at the reasonable assurance level. A material weakness is a control deficiency, or combination of control deficiencies, that results in more than a remote likelihood that a material misstatement of the financial statements will not be prevented or detected. Management identified material weaknesses relating both to our control environment and our control activities. 18 Table of Contents Management determined that we had material weaknesses in our control environment because as of December 31, 2005 we did not have (1) a sufficient number of personnel or appropriate depth of experience for our accounting, finance and information technology departments to ensure the preparation of interim and annual financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), (2) robust risk assessment processes, including strategic plans, budgets and clearly defined and communicated goals and objectives, (3) adequate monitoring of our existing control activities over financial reporting, (4) the ability to produce financial statements and deliver information to decision makers in a timely manner, and (5) the ability to remediate previously communicated weaknesses. In addition, we placed heavy reliance on manual procedures and detective controls without quality control review and other monitoring controls in place to adequately identify and assess significant risks that may impact financial statements and related disclosures. These conditions were exacerbated by problems encountered with the recent major systems implementation and significant turnover of personnel in several key finance and accounting and information technology positions, including the chief financial officer, controller and chief information officer. These control deficiencies could result in material misstatements of the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. Management also identified numerous material weaknesses in our control activities, including the following: • We did not maintain effective controls over period-end financial reporting processes; • We did not maintain adequate segregation of duties; • We did not maintain effective controls over access to our systems, financial applications, and data; • We had deficiencies relating to the preparation of account analyses, account summaries and account reconciliations; • We had deficiencies relating to the documentation of accounting policies and procedures; • We had deficiencies relating to records retention; • We had deficiencies relating to inventory management and merchandise accounts payable; • We had deficiencies relating to non-merchandise accounts payable; • We did not maintain effective control over the costing and valuation of inventory; • We had deficiencies relating to the recording of, and accounting for, fixed assets; • We did not maintain effective controls over taxes computed by third-party experts; • We did not maintain an effective controls related to the invoicing of customers with credit terms and the collection and application of payments and credits to accounts receivable; • We did not maintain effective control over payroll processing; • We identified deficiencies in our treasury functions which were considered material weaknesses; and • We did not maintain effective control over spreadsheets used in our financial reporting process. Any of these control deficiencies could result in material misstatements of the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. For more information about the material weaknesses identified by management, please see Part I, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” We have begun to take steps to strengthen our internal control processes to address the matters identified by us. These measures may not, however, completely eliminate the material weaknesses we identified, and we may have additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that neither they nor our management has yet identified. The existence of one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in material errors in our financial statements, and we may incur substantial costs and may be 19 Table of Contents required to devote substantial resources to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. If we cannot produce timely and reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. We must manage our online business successfully or our business will be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products through our website. In fiscal year 2005, online sales totaled $29.2 million, representing 18.5% of our total net sales. The success of our online business depends, in part, on factors over which we have limited control. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet. These risks include changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime or slowdowns and other technical failures or human errors, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales through our online business, as well as damage our reputation and increase our selling, general and administrative expenses. Our website was affected by our system conversion in May 2005 discussed above and as a consequence, we were unable to take orders for a two week period. If we do not manage our inventory levels successfully, our operating results will be adversely affected. We must maintain sufficient inventory levels to operate our business successfully. However, we also must guard against the risk of accumulating excess inventory as we seek to fulfill our “in stock and ready to ship” philosophy. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. If we misjudge market trends, we may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results. Conversely, shortages of popular items could result in loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Consumer preferences may change between the time we order a product and the time it is available for sale. We base our product selection on our projections of consumer preferences in a future period, and our projections may not be accurate. As a result, we are vulnerable to consumer demands and trends, to misjudgments in the selection and timing of our merchandise purchases and fluctuations in the U.S. economy. Additionally, much of our inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States that often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to produce products in the quantities we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise, and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, well in advance of the time such products will be offered for sale, which makes us vulnerable to changes in consumer demands and trends. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our products, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our operating results may be negatively impacted. We source many of our products from manufacturers and suppliers located in Europe, many of which close for vacation during the month of August each year. Accordingly, during September and in many cases for several weeks thereafter as manufacturing resumes and products are shipped to the United States, we are often unable to receive product shipments from these suppliers. As a result, we are required to make projections regarding customer demand for these products for the third and fourth quarters of each year and order sufficient product quantities for delivery in advance of the August shutdown. If we misjudge demand for any of these items, our inventory levels may be too high or low. If we have a shortage of a particular item affected by the August shutdown, we may not be able to procure additional quantities for some weeks or months, which could result in loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 20 Table of Contents We depend on domestic and foreign vendors, some of which are our competitors, for timely and effective sourcing of our merchandise. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. We purchase our merchandise from over 200 foreign and domestic designers, manufacturers and distributors. We have no long-term purchase contracts with any of our suppliers and, therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing or access to products, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. In fiscal year 2005, products supplied by our five largest vendors represented approximately 29.1% of net sales. Additionally, some of our suppliers, including Herman Miller, Inc., Vitra Inc. and Kartell US Inc., compete directly with us in both residential and commercial markets and may in the future choose not to supply products to us. In fiscal year 2005, products supplied by Herman Miller, Inc., Vitra Inc. and Kartell US Inc. represented approximately 14.5% of our net sales. Additionally, some of our smaller vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, which means that they may not be able to timely produce sufficient quantities of certain products demanded by our customers. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements are made. Moreover, we may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase. New accounting pronouncement may impact our future results of operations. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123R, “Share-Based Payment.” This statement which is effective in our first quarter of fiscal year 2006 changes how we account for share-based compensation and may negatively impact our stock price. SFAS No. 123R requires us to recognize share-based compensation as compensation expense in the statement of operations based on the fair values of such equity on the date of the grant, with the compensation expense recognized over the period in which the recipient is required to provide service in exchange for the equity award. This statement also requires us to adopt a fair value-based method for measuring the compensation expense related to share-based compensation. The impact of adoption of SFAS No. 123R is difficult to predict at this time because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. However, we believe if we had adopted SFAS No. 123R in prior periods, the impact of that standard would have approximated the impact of SFAS No. 123 as described in the notes to our financial statements. SFAS No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized stock-based compensation cost to be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow. This requirement will reduce our net operating cash flows and increase our net financing cash flows, as well as decrease net income or increase net losses due to additional compensation expense recorded, in periods after adoption. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and could impair our business. Third parties may assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark, trade dress, or other proprietary rights held by them, whether or not such claims have merit. Some of the products we offer, including some of our best selling items, are reproductions of designs that some of our competitors believe they have exclusive rights to manufacture and sell, and who may take action to seek to prevent us from selling those reproductions. Alternatively, such persons may seek to require us to enter into distribution relationships with them, thereby requiring us to sell their version of such products, at a significantly higher price than the reproduction that we offer, which may have a significant adverse impact on our sales volume, net sales and gross margin. During 2005, we discontinued selling reproductions of Barcelona merchandise currently being manufactured by Knoll, Inc. and agreed to carry the Barcelona merchandise instead. 21 Table of Contents We were selling the reproductions, which we referred to as “Pavillion” merchandise, at substantially lower prices than the Barcelona merchandise. In addition, when marketing or selling our products, we may refer to or use product designations that are or may be trademarks of other people, who may allege that we have no right to use such marks or product designations and bring actions against us to prevent us from using them. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could divert management personnel, or result in product shipment delays. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties, or to cease selling the infringing product, which may have a significant adverse impact on our sales volume and gross margins, especially if we are required to stop selling any of our best-selling items as a result of, or in connection with, such claim. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license rights to us, we may be required to enter into costly royalty, licensing or product distribution agreements. Such royalty, licensing or product distribution agreements may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to obtain suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. Moreover, any such litigation regarding infringement claims may result in adverse publicity which may harm our reputation. We are subject to various risks and uncertainties that might affect our ability to procure quality merchandise from our vendors. Our performance depends on our ability to procure quality merchandise from our vendors. Our vendors are subject to certain risks, including availability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions that might limit their ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to us or our customers. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise could reduce our net sales, damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. A substantial portion of our sales during any given period of time may be generated by a particular product or line of products obtained from a small number of vendors, and if sales of those products or line of products decrease, our common stock price may be adversely affected. In fiscal year 2005, our sales of products supplied by Herman Miller, Inc., the manufacturer of, among other items, the Aeron Chair, the Eames Lounge Chair and Ottoman, the Eames® Aluminum Management Chair and the Noguchi Table, constituted approximately 7% of our total net sales. Sales of products supplied by our top five vendors constituted approximately 29.1% of our total net sales in fiscal year 2005. Although we have no formal supply agreements with any of these vendors, we believe that sales of products we obtain from these vendors will continue to constitute a substantial portion of our sales in the future. However, sales of products from these vendors may not continue to increase or may not continue at this level in the future. If sales of products from these vendors decrease, our net sales will decrease and the price of our common stock may be adversely affected. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and/or any failure by us to adopt and implement an effective hedging strategy could adversely affect our operating results. In fiscal year 2005, we generated all of our net sales in U.S. dollars, but we purchased approximately 44% of our product inventories from manufacturers in Europe and paid for the majority of these products in Euros. Increases and decreases in the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro result in fluctuations in the cost to us of merchandise sourced from Europe. As a result of such currency fluctuations, we have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results on an annual and a quarterly basis going forward. Specifically, as the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to the Euro, our effective cost of supplies of product increases. As a result, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and other foreign currencies would increase our cost of goods sold and decrease our gross margin. 22 Table of Contents During fiscal year 2004, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased approximately 8% relative to the Euro, which had an adverse effect on our cost of goods and gross margins. In fiscal year 2005, the value of the dollar increased approximately 10% relative to the Euro. However, we did not benefit significantly from this strengthening of the dollar because we made most of our fiscal year 2005 inventory purchases in the first part of the year when the dollar was still weak relative to the Euro and because of the hedging contracts we purchased at a time when the dollar was relatively weak. Under our hedging strategy adopted in the fourth quarter of 2004, and which was in place during fiscal year 2005, we purchased foreign currency option contracts with maturities of 12 months or less to hedge our currency risk on anticipated purchases of merchandise based on our forecasted demand. We account for hedging contracts on a monthly basis by recognizing the net cash settlement gain or loss on the call or put option in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and adjusting the carrying amount of the contract to market by recognizing any corresponding gain or loss in cost of goods sold as the underlying inventory which was hedged is sold in each reporting period. However, when derivative positions exceed identified exposures, such contracts are considered “ineffective” and reported through earnings (loss). In fiscal year 2005, our actual demand was less than our forecasted demand, and the amount of Euros we hedged was greater than the amount we needed for purchases of inventory. As a result, we recorded approximately $236,000 for ineffectiveness during fiscal year 2005. Although we are evaluating and plan to revise our hedging strategy, we will not be able to eliminate all fluctuations in our cost of goods caused by changes in currency exchange rates. If our revised hedging strategy does not help reduce fluctuations in our cost of goods and mitigate the impact of strengthening of the Euro relative to the U.S. dollar, we will continue to have difficulties in accurately predicting our costs of goods and our cost of goods may increase, adversely impacting our gross margin. In addition, if our forecasted demand exceeds actual demand, we may have expenses associated with hedging that are not associated with inventory purchases. We rely on foreign sources of production, which subjects us to various risks. We currently source a substantial portion of our products from foreign manufacturers located in Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain, and in other countries. As such, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, work stoppages, economic uncertainties including inflation, foreign government regulations, wars and fears of war, acts of terrorism, political unrest and trade restrictions. Additionally, countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future may become subject to trade restrictions imposed by the United States or foreign governments. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign vendors, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds or increased tariffs or quotas could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our operating results. There is also a risk that one or more of our foreign vendors will not adhere to fair labor standards and may engage in child labor practices. If this happens, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition, which could negatively affect our business. If we fail to timely and effectively obtain shipments of product from our vendors and deliver merchandise to our customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our timely and effective procurement of supplies of product from our vendors and delivery of merchandise to our customers. All products that we purchase, domestically or overseas, must be shipped to our fulfillment center in Hebron, Kentucky by third-party freight carriers, except for those products that are shipped directly to our customers from the manufacturer. Our dependence on foreign imports also makes us vulnerable to risks associated with products manufactured abroad, including, among other things, risks of damage, destruction or confiscation of products while in transit to our fulfillment center, work stoppages including as a result of events such as longshoremen strikes, transportation 23 Table of Contents and other delays in shipments including as a result of heightened security screening and inspection processes or other port-of-entry limitations or restrictions in the United States, lack of freight availability and freight cost increases. In addition, if we experience a shortage of a popular item, we may be required to arrange for additional quantities of the item, if available, to be delivered to us through airfreight, which is significantly more expensive than standard shipping by sea. As a result, we may not be able to obtain sufficient freight capacity on a timely basis or at favorable shipping rates and, therefore, we may not be able to timely receive merchandise from our vendors or deliver our products to our customers. We rely upon land-based carriers for merchandise shipments from U.S. ports to our facility in Hebron, Kentucky and from this facility to our customers. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather and increased fuel costs, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our inbound and outbound shipping needs. For example, recent increases in oil prices resulted in increases in our shipping expenses and we have not passed all of this increase on to our customers, which has adversely affected our shipping margins. Failure to procure and deliver merchandise either to us or to our customers in a timely, effective and economically viable manner could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. In addition, any increase in fulfillment costs and expenses could adversely affect our future financial performance. All of our fulfillment operations are located in our facility in Hebron, Kentucky, and any significant disruption of this center’s operations would hurt our ability to make timely delivery of our products. We conduct all of our fulfillment operations from our facility in Hebron, Kentucky. Our fulfillment center houses all of our product inventory and is the location from which all of our products are shipped to customers, except for those products that are shipped directly to our customers from the manufacturer. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable event would cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of inventory and could render us unable to accept or fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. Further, we have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that a fire, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy a significant part of our Hebron, Kentucky facility or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our net sales would be reduced and our operating results would be harmed. Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our primary computer systems and operations are located at our corporate headquarters in San Francisco, California and distribution center in Hebron, Kentucky and are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events, and errors in usage by our employees and customers. Further, our website servers are located at the facilities of, and hosted by, a third-party service provider in Santa Clara, California. In the event that this service provider experiences any interruption in its operations or ceases operations for any reason or if we are unable to agree on satisfactory terms for a continued hosting relationship, we would be forced to enter into a relationship with another service provider or take over hosting responsibilities ourselves. In the event it became necessary to switch hosting facilities in the future, we may not be successful in finding an alternative service provider on acceptable terms or in hosting our website servers ourselves. Any significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our sales processing, distribution or communications systems, for any reason, could seriously harm our business. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers and our reputation could be harmed. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer call center. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing 24 Table of Contents systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives, who are essential in creating a favorable, interactive customer experience. In addition, e-mail and telephone call volumes in the future may exceed our present system’s capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in taking orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns, which would have an adverse effect on customer satisfaction and our reputation. We also are dependent on third-party shipping companies for delivery of products to customers. If these companies do not deliver goods in a timely manner or damage products in transit, our customers may be unsatisfied. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair our reputation and have an adverse effect on our future financial performance. We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to maintain profitability. The specialty retail furnishings market is highly fragmented but highly competitive. We compete with other companies that market lines of merchandise similar to ours, such as large retailers with a national or multinational presence, regional operators with niche assortments and catalog and Internet companies. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial resources than us. We expect that as demand for high quality design products grows, many new competitors will enter the market and competition from established companies will increase. Moreover, increased competition may result in potential or actual litigation between us and our competitors relating to such activities as competitive sales practices, relationships with key suppliers and manufacturers and other matters. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance. The competitive challenges facing us include: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands better than our competitors; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and achieving customer perception of value; • effectively marketing and competitively pricing our products to consumers in several diverse market segments; and • offering products that are distinctive in design, useful to the customer, well made and affordable, in a manner that favorably distinguishes us from our competitors. The U.S. retail industry, the specialty retail industry in particular, and the e-commerce sector are constantly evolving and have undergone significant changes over the past several years. Our ability to anticipate and successfully respond to continuing challenges is critical to our long-term growth, and we may not be successful in anticipating and responding to changes in the retail industry and e-commerce sector. In light of the many competitive challenges facing us, we may not be able to compete successfully. Increased competition could adversely affect our future net sales. We maintain a liberal merchandise return policy, which allows customers to return most merchandise and, as a result, excessive merchandise returns could harm our business. We maintain a liberal merchandise return policy that allows customers to return most merchandise received from us if they are dissatisfied with those items. We make allowances for returns in our financial statements based on historical return rates. Actual merchandise returns may exceed our allowances for returns. In addition, 25 Table of Contents because our allowances are based on historical return rates, the introduction of new products, the opening of new studios, the introduction of new catalogs, increased sales online, changes in our merchandise mix or other factors may cause actual returns to exceed return allowances. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceed our allowances could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. The loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on our ability to execute our business strategy and on our business results. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our current senior management to execute our business plan. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Tara Poseley, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Ken La Honta, our Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary and Robert Forbes, Jr., our founder, who currently serves as a director and consultant. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel. The loss of the services of Ms. Poseley, Mr. La Honta, Mr. Forbes or any of the other members of our senior management team or of other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our business results. Changes in our senior management and any future departures of key employees or other members of senior management may be disruptive to our business and may adversely affect our operations. Additionally, our future performance will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, merchandising and sales personnel. If members of our existing management team are not able to manage our company or our growth, or if we are unable to attract and hire additional qualified personnel as needed in the future, our business results will be negatively impacted. Our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group, and may not be able to manage our business effectively. Several members of our senior management team, including our Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Secretary and our Executive Vice President of Marketing and Merchandising, have been hired since May 2005. In addition, Tara Poseley became our Chief Executive Officer in October 2005, prior to that she had been our Vice President of Merchandising since August 2004. As a result, our senior management team has limited experience working together as a group. This lack of shared experience could harm our senior management team’s ability to quickly and efficiently respond to problems and effectively manage our business. We have grown quickly and if we fail to manage our growth, our business will suffer. We have rapidly and significantly expanded our operations, and anticipate that further significant expansion will be required to address potential growth in our customer base and market opportunities. This expansion has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational resources. Additionally, we need to properly implement and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may in the future make investments in, or possibly acquire, assets or businesses that we believe are complementary to ours. Any such investment or acquisition may further strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. These difficulties could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees and increase our costs. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or successfully integrate any assets or businesses that we may acquire, our future financial performance would be adversely affected. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include trademark registrations or applications for our name, “Design Within Reach,” our logo, and the acronym, “DWR,” among 26 Table of Contents others; copyrights and trade dress rights in our catalogs, website and certain of our products, such as our commissioned designs, and packaging; rights to our domain name, www.dwr.com, and our databases and information management systems; and patent registrations or applications, and other proprietary rights, in certain product designs. We rely on trademark, copyright, patent, unfair competition and trade secret laws, and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and others, to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. In addition, the costs of defending our intellectual property may adversely affect our operating results. We may face product liability claims or product recalls that are costly and create adverse publicity. The products we sell may from time to time contain defects which could subject us to product liability claims and product recalls. Any such product liability claim or product recall may result in adverse publicity regarding us and the products we sell, which may harm our reputation. If we are found liable under product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Further, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business. In addition, although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful product liability claim or product recall is not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, our financial condition would be harmed. The security risks of online commerce, including credit card fraud, may discourage customers from purchasing products from us online. For our online sales channel to continue to succeed, we and our customers must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our website and choose not to purchase from us. Although we take the security of our systems very seriously, our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation. We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature when we sell our products by telephone or online. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, our liability for these transactions could harm our financial condition. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business online, including consumer protection laws, user privacy laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. In particular, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to our customers of our policies on sharing non-public information with third parties, must provide advance notice of any changes to our privacy policies and, with limited exceptions, must give consumers the right to prevent sharing of their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties. Further, the growth of online commerce could result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on us. Today there are an increasing number of laws specifically directed at the conduct of business on the Internet. 27 Table of Contents Moreover, due to the increasing use of the Internet, many additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as freedom of expression, pricing, user privacy, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Applicability of existing laws to the Internet relating to issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, U.S. and international laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy and sell mailing lists. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet. The applicability and reach of those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, are uncertain. The restrictions imposed by and costs of complying with current and possible future laws and regulations related to our business could harm our future operating results. In addition, because our website is accessible over the Internet in multiple states and other countries, we may be subject to their laws and regulations or may be required to qualify to do business in those locations. Our failure to qualify in a state or country where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties and we could be subject to legal actions and liability in those jurisdictions. The restrictions or penalties imposed by, and costs of complying with, these laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to enforce contracts and other obligations in states and countries in which we are not qualified to do business could be hampered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. During fiscal year 2005, the Company has been subject to sales and use tax audits by various states as well as a current Internal Revenue Service audit for fiscal year 2003. Although any adverse results for completed audits have not been material to us, there is a risk that federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge the characterization of certain transactions and assess additional amounts, including interest and penalties. In the event that transactions are challenged by tax authorities, the review process would divert management attention and resources and we may incur substantial costs. Tax authorities in a number of states, as well as a Congressional advisory commission, are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales and income taxes, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Further, there is a possibility that we may be subject to significant fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements. Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our online business or our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. In addition, several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal, user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Bills proposed in Congress would extend online privacy protections to adults. Moreover, proposed legislation in the United States and existing laws in other countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. These data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, any violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and damages and may otherwise have material adverse effect on our financial condition. The State of California recently enacted a law that requires any company that does business in California and possesses computerized data, in unencrypted form, containing certain personal information about California 28 Table of Contents residents to provide prompt notice to such residents if that personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, obtained by an unauthorized person such as a computer hacker. The law defines personal information as an individual’s name together with one or more of that individual’s social security number, driver’s license number, California identification card number, credit card number, debit card number, or bank account information, including any necessary passwords or access codes. As our customers, including California residents, generally provide information to us that is covered by this definition of personal information in connection with their purchases via our website, our business will be affected by this new law. As a result, we will need to ensure that all computerized data containing the previously-described personal information is sufficiently encrypted or that we have implemented appropriate measures to detect unauthorized access to our data. These measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access to the previously described personal information. In the event of an unauthorized access, we are required to notify our California customers of any such access to the extent it involves their personal information. Such measures will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by the new law, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies available to California residents whose information was improperly accessed or, under certain circumstances, the State of California could seek to enjoin our online operations until appropriate corrective actions have been taken. While we intend to comply fully with this new law, we may not be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business resulting from this law. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under this new law, or any similar law enacted by another jurisdiction, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. We may be subject to liability for the content that we publish. As a publisher of catalogs and online content, we face potential liability for intellectual property infringement and other claims based on the information and other content contained in our catalogs and website. In the past, parties have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against online services. If we incur liability for our catalog or online content, our financial condition could be affected adversely. We may need additional financing and may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to open additional studios, to facilitate long-term expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to unanticipated financial requirements. We have a credit agreement with Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N.A., as amended on December 23, 2005, which provides for a $10.0 million operating line of credit. As of December 31, 2005, we were not in compliance with various financial covenants under our credit agreement. We received a waiver of default on March 29, 2006. As a result, our ability to borrow under the line was not interrupted. However, if we are unable to return to compliance and maintain such compliance with these covenants, we may, in the future, be restricted from borrowing until we return to compliance with the covenants or we obtain an additional waiver which may or may not be available to us. A failure to obtain additional financing or an inability to obtain financing on acceptable terms could require us to incur indebtedness that has high rates of interest or substantial restrictive covenants, issue equity securities that will dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders, or scale back, or fail to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of, our operations. Our inability to obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices might have a negative impact on our business. During fiscal year 2005, we experienced a substantial increase in the costs of insurance compared to that spent in prior years. We believe that extensive commercial insurance coverage is prudent for risk management 29 Table of Contents and anticipate that our insurance costs may continue to increase substantially. However, for certain types or levels of risk (e.g., risks associated with earthquakes or terrorist attacks), we might determine that we cannot obtain commercial insurance at acceptable prices. Therefore, we might choose to forego or limit our purchase of relevant commercial insurance, choosing instead to self-insure one or more types or levels of risks. If we suffer a substantial loss that is not covered by commercial insurance, the loss and attendant expenses could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, cash flows and financial position. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law make any change in control more difficult. This could affect our stock price adversely. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and affect adversely the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • the division of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with two-thirds stockholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our common stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2004, and an active trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. Since our initial public offering, our stock price has traded from a low of $4.20 to a high of $19.45. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts who may choose to follow our common stock, if any, and investors. If this occurs, our stock price may decline. Factors that could affect our stock price include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates, if any, of our financial performance; • publication of research reports by analysts, if any; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us, our competitors or other retailers; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; • general economic conditions; • financial market conditions; 30 Table of Contents • changes in accounting principles or policies, including the requirement to treat stock option grants as an operating expense; • acts of terrorism; and • war or threats of war. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of retail companies in particular have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock or may issue negative reports, and this may have a negative impact on our common stock’s market price. Securities analysts may not cover our common stock. If securities analysts do not cover our common stock, the lack of research coverage may adversely affect our common stock’s market price. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that industry or financial analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrades our common stock, our common stock price would likely decline rapidly. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company, we could lose visibility in the market, which in turn could cause our common stock price to decline. In addition, recently-adopted rules mandated by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and a global settlement reached between the SEC, other regulatory analysts and a number of investment banks in April 2003 has led to a number of fundamental changes in how analysts are reviewed and compensated. In particular, many investment banking firms will now be required to contract with independent financial analysts for their stock research. It may be difficult for companies with smaller market capitalizations, such as our company, to attract independent financial analysts that will cover our common stock, which could have a negative effect on the market price of our common stock. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends from us on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 