Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the forward-looking statements discussed in this report, we also provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our business. These items are factors that we believe could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. Other factors also could adversely affect us. If our proposed merger with Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. is not consummated, our stock price, business and operations could be harmed. On February 10, 2006, we entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger with Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. and its subsidiary, Caliper Holdings, Inc., pursuant to which we will be merged with and into Caliper Holdings and become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caliper. A copy of the merger agreement and other documents relating to the merger are attached as exhibits to the Current Report on Form 8-K that we 17 Table of Contents filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2006. Our Board of Directors has approved the merger and the merger agreement. In March 2006, Caliper and Xenogen will file a registration statement on Form S-4 and a notice of special meeting of stockholders and definitive proxy statement for the special meeting of stockholders pursuant to which we will ask our stockholders to adopt and approve the merger agreement and the merger. The obligations of Caliper and Xenogen to effect the merger are subject to a number of conditions, including approval by the Xenogen and Caliper stockholders, and the merger may not occur. If the merger is not consummated for any reason, we may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • we may be required to pay Caliper a termination fee of $3.1 million; • the price of our common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of our common stock reflects an assumption that the merger will be completed; and • we must pay our accrued costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and certain financial advisory fees, even if the merger is not completed. In addition, our customers may, in response to the announcement of the merger, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by our customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, regardless of whether or not the merger is ultimately completed. Similarly, our current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future role with Caliper until Caliper’s strategies with regard to us are announced or executed. This uncertainty may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, marketing, technical, manufacturing, administrative, sales and other personnel. We have a history of losses and an accumulated deficit of $186.3 million as of December 31, 2005, and we may never achieve profitability. We have incurred significant net losses every year since our inception. We incurred losses of $20.5 million in 2003, $21.8 million in 2004 and $18.6 million in 2005. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of $186.3 million. To achieve profitability, we will need to generate and sustain substantially higher revenue than we have to date, while achieving reasonable costs and expense levels. We may not be able to generate enough revenue to achieve profitability. We may not achieve or maintain reasonable costs and expense levels. Even if we become profitable, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. If we fail to achieve profitability within the timeframe expected by securities analysts or investors, the market price of our common stock will likely decline. If our products and services do not become widely used by pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical researchers, it is unlikely that we will ever become profitable. Pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical researchers have historically conducted in vivo biological assessment using a variety of technologies, including a variety of animal models. Compared to these technologies, our technology is relatively new, and the number of companies and institutions using our technology is relatively limited. The commercial success of our products will depend upon the widespread adoption of our technology as a preferred method to perform in vivo biological assessment. In order to be successful, our products must meet the technical and cost requirements for in vivo biological assessment within the life sciences industry. Widespread market acceptance will depend on many factors, including: • the willingness and ability of researchers and prospective customers to adopt new technologies; 18 Table of Contents • our ability to convince prospective strategic partners and customers that our technology is an attractive alternative to other methods of in vivo biological assessment; • our customers’ perception that our products can help accelerate efforts and reduce costs in drug development; and • our ability to sell and service sufficient quantities of our products. Additionally, to our knowledge, only one of our drug development customers has used our imaging technology to submit an investigational new drug application, or IND, to the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and no drugs have been approved to date using our imaging technology. As a result, our ability to assist the drug development process in leading to the approval of drugs with commercial potential has yet to be fully proven. If commercial advantages are not realized from the use of in vivo biophotonic imaging, our existing customers could stop using our products, and we could have difficulty attracting new customers. Because of these and other factors, our products may not gain widespread market acceptance or become the industry standard for in vivo biological assessment. As a company in the early stage of commercialization, our limited history of operations makes evaluation of our business and future growth prospects difficult. We have had a limited operating history and are at an early stage of commercialization. While we sold our first IVIS® Imaging Systems and entered into our first commercial license in 2000, we did not begin to sell our products and services in commercial quantities until 2002. Our in vivo biophotonic imaging technology is a relatively new technology that has not yet achieved widespread adoption. To date, we have generated revenues of $16.0 million in 2002, $20.1 million in 2003, $30.9 million in 2004 and $39.7 million in 2005. We do not have enough experience in selling our products at a level consistent with broad market acceptance and to know whether we can do so and generate a profit. As a result of these factors, it is difficult to evaluate our prospects, and our future success is more uncertain than if we had a longer or more proven history of operations. Our future revenue is unpredictable and could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to do so in the future. In particular, our operating results in the first and third quarters have historically been lower than those in the second and fourth quarters due to the decision-making process of our customer base. The sale of many of our products, including our IVIS Imaging Systems and related Bioware, typically involve a significant scientific evaluation and commitment of capital by customers. Accordingly, the initial sales cycles of many of our products are lengthy and subject to a number of significant risks that are beyond our control, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance reviews. As a result of this lengthy and unpredictable sales cycle, our operating results have historically fluctuated significantly from quarter to quarter, and we expect this trend to continue. In addition, a large portion of our expenses, including expenses for our Alameda, California and Cranbury, New Jersey facilities, equipment and personnel, are relatively fixed. Historically, customer buying patterns and our revenue growth have caused a substantial portion of our revenues to occur in the last month of the quarter. Delays in the receipt of orders, our recognition of product 19 Table of Contents or service revenue or the manufacture of product near the end of the quarter could cause quarterly revenues to fall short of anticipated levels. Because our operating expenses are based on anticipated revenue levels and a high percentage of our expenses are relatively fixed, less than anticipated revenues for a quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Accordingly, if our revenue declines or does not increase as we anticipate, we might not be able to correspondingly reduce our operating expenses in a timely enough manner to avoid incurring additional losses. Our failure to achieve our anticipated level of revenue could significantly harm our operating results for a particular fiscal period. The following are among additional factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period: • changes in the demand for, and pricing of, our products and services; • the length of our sales cycles and buying patterns of our customers, which may cause a decrease in our operating results for a quarterly period; • the nature, pricing and timing of other products and services provided by us or our competitors; • changes in our long term custom animal production contracts and other renewable contracts, including licenses; • our ability to obtain key components for our imaging systems and manufacture and install them on a timely basis to meet demand; • changes in the research and development budgets of our customers; • acquisition, licensing and other costs related to the expansion of our operations; • the timing of milestones, licensing and other payments under the terms of our license agreements, commercial agreements and agreements pursuant to which others license technology to us; • expenses related to our commercial and patent infringement litigation with AntiCancer and other litigation in which we may become involved; and • expenses related to, and the results of, patent filings and other proceedings relating to intellectual property rights. Due to the possibility of fluctuations in our revenue and expenses, we believe that quarter to quarter or annual comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. The termination or non-renewal of a large contract or the loss of, or a significant reduction in, sales to any of our significant customers could harm our operating results. We generally sell our products and often provide our services pursuant to agreements that are renewable on an annual basis. Failure to renew or the cancellation of these agreements by any one of our significant customers, which include Pfizer Inc. and affiliates of Novartis, could result in a significant loss of revenue. We currently derive, and we expect to continue to derive, a large percentage of our total revenue from a relatively small number of customers. If any of these customers terminates or substantially diminishes 20 Table of Contents its relationship with us, our revenue could decline significantly. Revenue concentration among our largest customers is as follows: • our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 32.8%, 41% and 53% of our revenue for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively; and • our largest and second largest customers accounted for approximately 12% and 5% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2005, 16% and 7% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2004, and 21% and 11% of our revenue for the year ended December 31, 2003. The loss of significant revenue from any of our significant customers could negatively impact our results of operations or limit our ability to execute our strategy. We may not fully realize our revenue under long-term contracts, which could harm our business and result in higher losses than anticipated. We have long-term contracts for custom animal production and/or phenotyping services with two customers that are renewed annually and are expected to generate future revenues. These two long-term contracts may not be renewed annually and may be terminated at any time during their terms. In addition, we may not be able to maintain our sublicensed rights under certain patents relating to these contracts. If we are unable to meet customer demand, it would adversely impact our financial results and restrict our sales growth. To be successful, we must manufacture our IVIS Imaging Systems in substantial quantities at acceptable costs. If we do not succeed in manufacturing sufficient quantities of our imaging systems to meet customer demand, we could lose customers and fail to acquire new customers, if they choose a competitor’s product because our imaging system is not available. Increasing demand since the launch of our IVIS Imaging System has necessitated an increase in our manufacturing capacity. We believe our current manufacturing capacity in Alameda, California is sufficient to meet our current and forecasted demand through 2006, and we are in the planning stages for managing this capacity. We have also experienced a shift in customer demand towards our IVIS 200 systems and, more recently, IVIS 50 systems, and we have altered our planned manufacturing to increase IVIS system output in an effort to meet this demand. Certain components of our IVIS 200 systems and IVIS 50 systems are specially manufactured by our single-source suppliers and supply of these parts to us requires adequate lead time that can result in production delays. If we experience unexpected shifts in customer demand that requires alterations to planned manufacturing, we may experience production delays that could restrict our sales growth. If, following the closing of the merger with Caliper, manufacturing of our IVIS systems is relocated away from our Alameda, California facility, any manufacturing delays or disruptions relating to the relocation could negatively impact our ability to meet customer demand. If we are unable to meet customer demand for IVIS Imaging Systems, it would adversely affect our financial results and restrict our sales growth. We depend on a limited number of suppliers, and we will be unable to manufacture or deliver our products if shipments from these suppliers are interrupted or are not supplied on a timely basis. We use original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, for various parts of our IVIS Imaging Systems, including the cameras, boxes, certain subassemblies, filters and lenses. We obtain these key components from a small number of sources. For example, the lens for our IVIS 200 system is obtained from a single source on a purchase order basis from Coastal Optical Systems Inc., and the CCD cameras for all of our IVIS Imaging 21 Table of Contents Systems are obtained from two sources, Spectral Instruments, Inc. and Andor Technology Limited. We have binding supply agreements with Spectral and Andor. From time to time, we have experienced delays in obtaining components from certain of our suppliers, which have had an impact on our production schedule for imaging systems. We believe that alternative sources for these components in the event of a disruption or discontinuation in supply would not be available on a timely basis, which would disrupt our operations and impair our ability to manufacture and sell our products. Our dependence upon outside suppliers and OEMs exposes us to risks, including: • the possibility that one or more of our suppliers could terminate their services at any time; • the potential inability of our suppliers to obtain required components or products; • reduced control over pricing, quality and timely delivery, due to the difficulties in switching to alternative suppliers; • the potential delays and expense of seeking alternative suppliers; and • increases in prices of raw materials, products and key components. Because we receive revenue principally from biomedical research institutions and pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies, the industry conditions faced by those companies and their capital spending policies may have a significant effect on the demand for our products. We market our products to pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies and biomedical research institutions, and the capital spending policies of these entities can have a significant effect on the demand for our products. These policies vary significantly between different customers and are based on a wide variety of factors, including the resources available for purchasing research equipment, the spending priorities among various types of research companies and the policies regarding capital expenditures. In particular, the volatility of the public stock market for biotechnology companies has at certain times significantly impacted the ability of these companies to raise capital, which has directly affected their capital spending budgets. In addition, continued consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry will likely delay and may potentially reduce capital spending by pharmaceutical companies involved in such consolidations. During the past several years, many of our customers and potential customers, particularly in the biopharmaceutical industry, have reduced their capital spending budgets because of these generally adverse prevailing economic conditions, consolidation in the industry and increased pressure on the profitability of such companies, due in part to competition from generic drugs. If our customers and potential customers do not increase their capital spending budgets, because of continuing adverse economic conditions or further consolidation in the industry, we could face weak demand for our products. Similarly, changes in availability of grant moneys may impact our sales to academic customers. Recent developments regarding safety issues for widely used drugs, including actual and/or threatened litigation, also may affect capital spending by pharmaceutical companies. Any decrease or delay in capital spending by life sciences or chemical companies or biomedical researchers could cause our revenue to decline and harm our profitability. In addition, consolidation within the pharmaceutical industry may not only affect demand for our products, but also existing business relationships. If two or more of our present or future customers merge, we may not receive the same fees under agreements with the combined entities that we received under agreements with these customers prior to their merger. Moreover, if one of our customers merges with an entity that is not a customer, the new combined entity may prematurely terminate our agreement. Any of these developments could materially harm our business or financial condition. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to properly manage our growth, our business could be adversely affected. We have substantially increased the scale of our operations since our initial public offering in 2004. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our losses could increase. The management of our growth will depend, among other things, upon our ability to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we will have to invest in additional customer support resources, hire and train additional personnel for manufacturing, installation and field support, and expand our inventory of instrumentation parts and components, which will result in additional burdens on our systems and resources and require additional capital expenditures. We have a limited sales and marketing organization, and although we intend to increase our sales and marketing organization, we may be unable to build an organization to meet demand for our products and services. We currently have a limited number of people in our sales force engaged in the direct sale of our products, many of whom were added in 2004. Because our products are technical in nature, we believe that our sales and marketing staff must have scientific or technical expertise and experience and require they be trained in the instrumentation and reagents that they sell. Although we expanded our sales and marketing organization in 2004 and continued our expansion efforts in 2005, the number of employees with these skills is relatively small. Competition is intense and we may not be able to continue to attract and retain sufficient qualified people or grow and maintain an efficient and effective sales and marketing department. In several foreign countries and regions outside the U.S., including several countries in Europe and Asia, we sell our products and services primarily through third-party distributors. We are dependent upon the sales and marketing efforts of our third-party distributors in these international markets. These distributors may not commit the necessary resources to effectively market and sell our products and services. Further, they may not be successful in selling our products and services. Our financial condition would be harmed if we fail to build an adequate direct and indirect sales and marketing organization and our marketing and sales efforts are unsuccessful. We depend on key employees in a competitive market for skilled personnel, and without additional employees, we cannot grow or achieve profitability. We are highly dependent on the principal members of our management team, including David W. Carter, chairman of our board and chief executive officer, and Pamela R. Contag, Ph.D., our president. With the exception of Mr. Carter and Dr. Contag, we do not have any key person life insurance on such individuals. Additionally, while we have change of control severance arrangements in place for the principal members of our management team, as a practical matter, such arrangements may not ensure the employee’s retention. Our future success also will depend in part on the continued service of our key scientific, consulting and management personnel and our ability to identify hire and retain additional personnel. We experience intense competition for qualified personnel. We may be unable to attract and retain personnel necessary for the development of our business. Moreover, a significant portion of our work force is located in the San Francisco Bay Area of California, where demand for personnel with the scientific and technical skills we seek is extremely high and is likely to remain high. 23 Table of Contents Our intellectual property rights, including one patent that is due to expire in 2006, may not provide meaningful commercial protection for our products, which could enable third parties to use our technology, or very similar technology, and could reduce our ability to compete in the market. We rely on patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark laws to limit the ability of others to compete with us using the same or similar technology in the U.S. and other countries. However, these laws afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights to the extent necessary to sustain any competitive advantage we may have. The laws of some foreign countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S., and many companies have encountered significant problems in protecting their proprietary rights abroad. These problems can be caused by the absence of adequate rules and methods for defending and enforcing intellectual property rights. We will be able to protect our technology from unauthorized use by third parties only to the extent that they are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent positions of companies developing tools for pharmaceutical, biotechnology, biomedical and chemical industries, including our patent position, generally are uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions, particularly as to questions concerning the enforceability of such patents against alleged infringement. The biotechnology patent situation outside the U.S. is even more uncertain, particularly with respect to the patentability of transgenic animals. Changes in either the patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the U.S. and other countries may therefore diminish the value of our intellectual property. Moreover, our patents and patent applications may not be sufficiently broad to prevent others from practicing our technologies or from developing competing products. We also face the risk that others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or design around our patented technologies. We own, or control through licenses, a variety of issued patents and pending patent applications. However, the patents on which we rely may be challenged and invalidated, and our patent applications may not result in issued patents. AntiCancer, a party with whom we have been engaged in ongoing commercial litigation, filed a lawsuit against us alleging infringement of five patents and requesting that the court declare invalid one of our primary patents covering methods of in vivo biophotonic imaging. For a description of our litigation with AntiCancer, see “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” We have taken measures to protect our proprietary information, especially proprietary information that is not covered by patents or patent applications. These measures, however, may not provide adequate protection of our trade secrets or other proprietary information. We seek to protect our proprietary information by entering into confidentiality agreements with employees, collaborators and consultants. Nevertheless, employees, collaborators or consultants may still disclose our proprietary information, and we may not be able to protect our trade secrets in a meaningful way. If we lose employees, we may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by those former employees despite the existence of nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. In addition, others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets. U.S. Patent No. 4,873,191, claiming the use of certain widely accepted microinjection techniques to create transgenic animals and licensed exclusively to our subsidiary, Xenogen Biosciences Corp., is due to expire in October 2006. Upon its expiration, we will not be able to prevent others from practicing those methods for commercial purposes and we may face competition from third parties seeking to provide those services on a commercial basis. 24 Table of Contents We may need to initiate lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or other proprietary rights, which would be expensive and, if we lose, may cause us to lose some of our intellectual property rights, which would reduce our ability to compete in the market and may cause our stock price to decline. We rely on patents to protect a large part of our intellectual property and competitive position. Our patents, which have been or may be issued, may not afford meaningful protection for our technologies and products. In addition, our current and future patent applications may not result in the issuance of patents in the U.S. or foreign countries. Our competitors may develop technologies and products similar to our technologies and products which do not infringe our patents. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties, such as infringement suits or interference proceedings. This risk is exacerbated by the fact that those third parties may have access to substantially greater financial resources than we have to conduct such litigation. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits would put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and our patent applications at risk of not issuing. Additionally, we may suffer reduced instrumentation sales and/or license revenue as a result of pending lawsuits or following final resolution of lawsuits. Further, these lawsuits may also provoke these third parties to assert claims against us. Attempts to enforce our patents may trigger third party claims that our patents are invalid. We may not prevail in any of these suits and any damage or other remedies awarded to us, if any, may not be commercially valuable. During the course of these suits, there may be public announcements of results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. If securities analysts or others perceive any of these results to be negative, it could cause our stock price to decline. We have filed with the court our response to the AntiCancer patent infringement lawsuit. With our response, we filed counterclaims against AntiCancer alleging that it infringes two of our U.S. patents. For a description of our litigation with AntiCancer, see “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing or misappropriating the proprietary rights of others. We may be exposed to future litigation by third parties based on claims that our products infringe the intellectual property rights of others. This risk is exacerbated because there are numerous issued and pending patents in the life sciences industry and, as described above, the validity and breadth of life sciences patents involve complex legal and factual questions. Our competitors may assert that their U.S. or foreign patents may cover our products and the methods we employ. For example, one of our principal competitors, Lexicon Genetics Incorporated, had been involved in litigation regarding intellectual property claims relating to the creation of transgenic animals. In addition, we are involved in patent litigation with AntiCancer, Inc., in which it has alleged that we have infringed certain of its patents. We have counterclaimed with allegations that AntiCancer infringes our imaging patents, as well as allegations that certain AntiCancer’s patents are invalid. For a description of our litigation with AntiCancer, see “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Also, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents that our products may infringe. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that one or more of our products may inadvertently infringe. From time to time, we have received, and may receive in the future, letters asking us to license certain technologies the signing party believes we may be using or would like us to use. In 2004 and 2005, we received letters from counsel for Lexicon Genetics Incorporated asking us to review with them one of our methods for genetically modified animal production in relation to two patents which they exclusively license. Although we declined to do so, we are in the process of determining whether their patents may offer a more cost effective approach to certain methods of animal production. 25 Table of Contents If we do not accept a license, we may be subject to claims of infringement, or may receive letters alleging infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from our core business. If we lose a patent infringement lawsuit, we could be prevented from selling our products unless we can obtain a license to use technology or ideas covered by such patent or are able to redesign the products to avoid infringement. A license may not be available at all or on terms acceptable to us, or we may not be able to redesign our products to avoid any infringement. If we are not successful in obtaining a license or redesigning our products, we may be unable to sell our products and our business could suffer. Our rights to the use of technologies licensed to us by third parties are not within our control, and without these technologies, our products and programs may not be successful and our business prospects could be harmed. We rely on licenses to use various technologies that are material to our business, including licenses, with sublicense rights, to in vivo imaging methods, licenses to the use of certain biologicals, and licenses to engineer and commercialize transgenic animals. We do not own the patents that underlie these licenses. Our rights to use these technologies and employ the inventions claimed in the licensed patents are subject to the negotiation of, continuation of and compliance with the terms of those licenses and the continued validity of these patents. In some cases, we do not control the prosecution or filing of the patents to which we hold licenses. Instead, we rely upon our licensors to prevent infringement of those patents. Under the GenPharm International, Inc. sublicense for certain gene targeting patents we use, GenPharm retains the sole right to enforce those patent rights against infringers. Under the Promega Corporation and The Regents of the University of California licenses for a patented form of firefly luciferase used in our LPTA animal models and certain of our Bioware, we do not have the right to enforce the patent, and neither licensor is obligated to do so on our behalf. Certain of our licenses contain diligence obligations, as well as provisions that allow the licensor to terminate the license upon specific conditions. Some of the licenses under which we have rights, such as our licenses from Stanford University and Ohio University, provide us with exclusive rights in specified fields, including the right to enforce the patents licensed to us from these two universities, but the scope of our rights under these and other licenses may become subject to dispute by our licensors or third parties. We are currently discussing with Stanford the scope of products that we sell which are subject to the royalty provisions of our Stanford license agreement. As a result of these discussions, we may amend the license agreement to change the royalties we pay to Stanford for future product sales. The amendment may also include the payment of back royalties to Stanford for products we have already sold. We have not discussed with Stanford the specific terms and conditions of an amendment or the amount of any back royalty payments nor has Stanford made a demand for a payment of a specific back royalty amount. Accordingly, we have not accrued for any such payments in our 2005 financial statements. If back royalties are owed to Stanford, we do not believe that they would exceed $371,000 for products sales through December 31, 2005. Any increase in the royalties we pay to Stanford would negatively impact our gross margins. We occasionally may become subject to commercial disputes that could harm our business. We may from time to time become engaged in commercial disputes such as claims by customers, suppliers or other third parties. These disputes could result in monetary damages or other remedies that could adversely impact our financial position or operations. For example, on August 9, 2001, AntiCancer, Inc. filed a lawsuit in the Superior Court of California, County of San Diego, against us and other third parties. In March 2006, we agreed to settle this lawsuit with AntiCancer. For a description of this settlement and our litigation with AntiCancer, see “Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” 26 Table of Contents On March 7, 2005, AntiCancer filed a lawsuit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of California alleging infringement of five of its patents. The complaint seeks damages and injunctive relief against the alleged infringement as well as a judgment that one of our imaging patents, 5,650,135, is invalid. We are vigorously defending ourselves against AntiCancer’s infringement claims and vigorously defending the validity of our 5,650,135 patent. In addition, we filed our own counterclaims against AntiCancer, alleging that its activities infringe three of our U.S. patents, 5,650,135, 6,217,847 and 6,649,143, all relating to in vivo imaging and with a priority date earlier than AntiCancer’s patents cited against us. Even if we prevail in this lawsuit, the defense of this or similar lawsuits will be expensive and time-consuming and may distract our management from operating our business. We face competition from companies with established technologies for in vivo biological assessment, which may prevent us from achieving significant market share for our products. We compete with a variety of established and accepted technologies for in vivo biological assessment that several competitors and customers may be using to analyze animal models. The most basic of these technologies have remained relatively unchanged for the past 40 years, are well established and are routinely used by researchers. We believe it may take several years for all researchers to become fully educated about our in vivo biophotonic imaging technology. We believe that in the near term, the market for in vivo biological assessment will be subject to rapid change and will be significantly affected by new technology introductions and other market activities of industry participants. As other companies develop new technologies and products to conduct in vivo biological assessment, we may be required to compete with many larger companies that enjoy several competitive advantages, including: • established distribution networks; • established relationships with life science, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and chemical companies as well as with biomedical researchers; • additional lines of products, and the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer higher discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; and • greater resources for technology and product development, sales and marketing and patent litigation. Our principal competitors that use established technologies for in vivo biological assessment include Exelixis, Inc. and Lexicon Genetics Incorporated. Each of these companies uses animal models in the area of target validation in drug discovery and utilizes methods of assessment based upon knockout mice as well as other organisms such as fruit flies, worms and yeast. We face competition from several companies including Eastman Kodak Company, Berthold Detection Systems GmbH, Hamamatsu Photonics, K.K. and Roper Scientific, Inc., that market systems that may be used to perform biophotonic imaging with the appropriate licenses. These companies are larger and have greater resources than Xenogen. There are also several privately-held companies that have recently begun to market systems that may be used to perform biophotonic imaging with the appropriate licenses. At any time, other companies may develop additional directly competitive products that could achieve greater market acceptance or render our products obsolete. 27 Table of Contents Failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to expand our operations and develop new products could reduce our ability to compete. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, revenue expected to be generated from operations and our ability to draw-down on our loan facilities will be sufficient to meet our currently planned operating requirements at least for the next 12 months. However, our expectations are based on our current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors, including: • revenues generated from sales of our current and future products and services, which is in part reliant on our success in ramping up our sales and marketing organization and our ability match our manufacturing capacity to customer demand; • the termination or non-renewal of material contracts or loss of significant customers; • expenses we incur in developing and selling our products and services; • developments or disputes concerning patents, proprietary rights or other commercial disputes; and • changes in our growth rates. Consequently, we may seek additional funds from public and private stock offerings, borrowings under lease lines of credit or other sources. This additional financing may not be available on a timely basis on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Moreover, additional equity financing, if available, would likely be dilutive to the holders of our common stock, and debt financing, if available, would likely involve restrictive covenants and a security interest in our assets. If adequate funds are not available, we may have to delay development or commercialization of our products and services, defer the acquisition of complimentary products or license to third parties the rights to commercialize products or technologies that we would otherwise seek to commercialize. We also may have to reduce marketing, customer support or other resources devoted to our products and services. Any of these results could harm our financial condition. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. To the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our then-existing stockholders. Contamination in our animal populations could damage our inventory, harm our reputation and result in decreased sales. We offer a portfolio of transgenic animals and LPTA animal models for use by researchers in a wide range of research and drug discovery programs and also perform breeding and model validation. We maintain animal facilities in Alameda, California and Cranbury, New Jersey. These animals and facilities must be free of contaminants, viruses or bacteria, or pathogens that would compromise the quality of research results. Contamination of our isolated breeding rooms could disrupt our models, delay delivery to customers of data generated from phenotyping and result in decreased sales. Contamination would result in inventory loss, clean-up and start-up costs and reduced sales as a result of lost customer orders. 28 Table of Contents In 2003, one of our animal facilities in Alameda was contaminated by a mouse virus introduced through one of our animal vendors. We closed that facility for decontamination, and transferred our most valuable strains to third party breeders for rederivation so that we could continue to provide animals to our customers. The decontamination process took approximately three months. We have moved all of these operations to a new barrier facility to reduce the contamination risk. Similar contamination occurred again in 2005. Neither event represented a loss of revenue, but did affect our operational costs by increasing our animal support costs. If a natural or man-made disaster strikes our manufacturing facility, we would be unable to manufacture our products for a substantial amount of time and we would experience lost revenue. We have relied to date principally on our manufacturing facility in Alameda, California to produce the IVIS Imaging Systems, our Bioware cells and microorganisms and LPTA animal models. We have also established a back-up facility for producing our LPTA animal models in Cranbury, New Jersey and have produced some of our LPTA animal models there. Both of these facilities and some pieces of manufacturing equipment would be difficult to replace and could require substantial replacement lead-time. Our facilities may be affected by natural disasters such as earthquakes and floods. Earthquakes are of particular significance to our Alameda facility, as it is located in an earthquake-prone area. In the event our Alameda facility or equipment was affected by man-made or natural disasters, we would be forced to shift production of the IVIS Imaging Systems and many of our Bioware cells and microorganisms and LPTA animal models to our Cranbury facility. We believe that this production shift would result in a disruption in our operations of approximately 90 to 180 days, which could harm our business. Although we currently maintain global property insurance for damage to our property and the disruption of our business from fire and other casualties, such insurance may not be sufficient to cover all of our potential losses and may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters may seriously harm our business and revenues, costs and expenses and financial condition. Terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to us, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors and customers, any and all of which could significantly impact our revenues, expenses and financial condition. The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties. The potential for future terrorist attacks, the national and international responses to terrorist attacks and other acts of war or hostility have created many economic and political uncertainties that could adversely affect our business and results of operations that cannot presently be predicted. The tsunami in Asia on December 26, 2004 was unpredictable and caused devastation of tremendous proportions and its effects are still being realized. The unpredictability of such a disaster inevitably causes uncertainty that could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are largely uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, acts of war and natural disasters. We use hazardous materials in our business. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our research and development processes, our anesthesia systems used with our IVIS Imaging Systems to anesthetize the animals being imaged and our general biology operations involve the controlled storage, use and disposal of hazardous materials including, but not limited to, biological hazardous materials and radioactive compounds. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these hazardous materials comply with the standards 29 Table of Contents prescribed by law and regulation, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from hazardous materials cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for any damages that result, and any liability could exceed the limits or fall outside the coverage of our insurance. We currently maintain a limited pollution cleanup insurance policy in the amount of $1.0 million. We may not be able to maintain insurance on acceptable terms, or at all. We could be required to incur significant costs to comply with current or future environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with governmental regulations could increase our operating costs, which would adversely affect the commercialization of our technology. The Animal Welfare Act, or AWA, is the federal law that covers the treatment of certain animals used in research. The AWA currently does not cover rats of the genus Rattus or mice of the genus Mus bred for use in research, and consequently, we are not currently required to be in compliance with this law. Currently, the AWA imposes a wide variety of specific regulations that govern the humane handling, care, treatment and transportation of certain animals by producers and users of research animals, most notably personnel, facilities, sanitation, cage size, feeding, watering and shipping conditions. If in the future the AWA is amended to include mice or rats bred for use in research in the scope of regulated animals, we will become subject to registration, inspections and reporting requirements. We believe compliance with such regulations would require us to modify our current practices and procedures, which could require significant financial and management resources. Furthermore, some states have their own regulations, including general anti-cruelty legislation, which establish certain standards in handling animals. To the extent that we provide products and services overseas, we also have to comply with foreign laws, such as the European Convention for the Protection of Animals During International Transport and other anti-cruelty laws. In addition, customers of our mice in certain countries may need to comply with requirements of the European Convention for the Protection of Vertebrate Animals Used for Experimental and Other Scientific Purposes. Additional or more stringent regulations in this area could impact our sales of laboratory animals into signatory countries. Since we develop animals containing changes in their genetic make-up, we may become subject to a variety of laws, guidelines, regulations and treaties specifically directed at genetically modified organisms. The area of environmental releases of genetically modified organisms is rapidly evolving and is currently subject to intense regulatory scrutiny, particularly overseas. If we become subject to these laws, we could incur substantial compliance costs. For example, the Biosafety Protocol, an international treaty adopted in 2000 to which the U.S. is not a party, regulates the transit of living modified organisms, a category that includes our transgenic mice, into countries party to the treaty. As our mice are not intended for release into the environment or for use for food, feed or processing, the treaty imposes only identification, handling, packaging and transport requirements for shipments into signatory countries. However, additional requirements may be imposed on such shipments in the future. Additionally, exports of our IVIS Imaging Systems and biological reagents to foreign customers and distributors are governed by the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, the Export Administration Regulations, Patriot Act and Bioterrorism Safety Act. Although these laws and regulations do not restrict our present foreign sales programs, any future changes to these regulatory regimes may negatively affect or limit our foreign sales. 30 Table of Contents Public perception of ethical and social issues may limit or discourage the use of mice for scientific experimentation, which could reduce our revenues and adversely affect our business. Governmental authorities could, for social or other purposes, limit the use of genetic modifications or prohibit the practice of our technology. Public attitudes may be influenced by claims that genetically engineered products are unsafe for use in research or pose a danger to the environment. The subject of genetically modified organisms, like genetically altered mice and rats, has received negative publicity and aroused significant public debate. In addition, animal rights activists could protest or make threats against our facilities, which may result in property damage. Ethical and other concerns about our methods, particularly our use of genetically altered mice and rats, could adversely affect our market acceptance. We may engage in future acquisitions, which could be expensive and time consuming, and such acquisitions could adversely affect your investment in us as we may never realize any benefits from such acquisitions. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to any material acquisitions. If we do undertake any transactions of this sort, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may never realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition. Future acquisitions could result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities and amortization expenses related to other intangible assets or the impairment of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Decreased effectiveness of equity compensation could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain employees, and adoption of changes in accounting for equity compensation could adversely affect earnings. We have historically used stock options and other forms of equity-related compensation as key components of our total employee compensation program in order to align employees’ interests with the interests of our stockholders, encourage employee retention, and provide competitive compensation packages. The Financial Accounting Standards Board and other agencies have finalized changes to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles that will require us and other companies to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants and other equity incentives. Moreover, applicable stock exchange listing standards relating to obtaining stockholder approval of equity compensation plans could make it more difficult or expensive for us to grant options to employees in the future. As a result, we may incur increased compensation costs, change our equity compensation strategy or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, any of which could materially adversely affect our business. We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above your investment price. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of the securities of biotechnology companies, particularly companies like ours with short operating histories and without consistent product revenues and earnings, have been highly volatile and may continue to be highly volatile in the future. This volatility has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Factors that could cause this volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by our competitors; • developments or disputes concerning patents or proprietary rights, or of infringement, interference or other litigation against us or our licensors; 31 Table of Contents • the timing and development of our products and services; • changes in our revenue due to contracts which are not renewed; • changes in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies’ research and development expenditures; • announcements concerning our competitors, or the biotechnology or pharmaceutical industry in general; • new regulatory pronouncements and changes in regulatory guidelines; • general and industry-specific economic conditions and issuance of new or changed research, reports or recommendations by industry or financial analysts about us or our business; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in financial estimates or recommendations by securities analysts, or termination of research coverage; • changes in accounting principles; and • the loss of any of our key scientific or management personnel. These and other external factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially, which may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities. Whether or not meritorious, litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs, divert management’s attention and resources and harm our financial condition and results of operations. On February 10, 2006, we entered into a merger agreement with Caliper and Caliper’s subsidiary, Caliper Holdings. Pursuant to the merger agreement, we will be merged with and into Caliper Holdings and become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Caliper. We publicly announced the signing of the merger agreement on February 13, 2006. From February 13, 2006 through March 1, 2006, the per share closing prices for our common stock as reported by Nasdaq was between $3.88 and $4.12. If the merger is not consummated, our stock price would likely decrease and would likely be highly volatile as it was prior to our announcement of the merger agreement. We have recently begun a more extensive assessment of the adequacy of our internal control system, which will be costly and could result in the identification of deficiencies in our system of internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires management to include an annual report regarding our evaluation of our internal controls in the company’s annual report for the year ending December 31, 2006 if we are an “accelerated filer” as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as of June 30, 2006 or December 31, 2007 if we are not an “accelerated filer” as of June 30, 2006. In preparation for that management report, we will need to assess the adequacy of our internal controls, remediate any weaknesses that may be identified, validate that controls are functioning as documented and implement a continuous reporting and improvement process for internal controls. We expect 32 Table of Contents to utilize outside consultants to assist with this project, which will increase our selling, general and administrative costs in 2005 and 2006. We may also discover deficiencies that require us to improve our procedures, processes and systems in order to ensure that our internal controls are adequate and effective, and that we are in compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If the deficiencies are not adequately addressed, or if we are unable to complete all of our testing and any remediation in time for compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the SEC rules under it, we would be unable to conclude that our internal controls over financial reporting are designed and operating effectively, which could adversely affect our investor confidence in our internal controls over financial reporting. If the ownership of our common stock continues to be highly concentrated, it may prevent you and other stockholders from influencing significant corporate decisions and may result in conflicts of interest that could cause our stock price to decline. Our executive officers, directors and holders of 10% or more of our common stock beneficially own or control approximately 42 percent of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of March 1, 2006. This significant concentration of share ownership may adversely affect the trading price for our common stock because investors may perceive disadvantages in owning stock in companies with controlling stockholders. These stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election and removal of directors and any proposed merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they could dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the affect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination that could be favorable to you. In order to facilitate the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement, Caliper entered into voting agreements dated February 10, 2006, with certain of our stockholders whereby the stockholders will vote (or cause to be voted) in person or by proxy all shares of Xenogen common stock held by them in favor of the adoption of the merger agreement and against any competing transaction, and against any other proposal properly put to a vote of our stockholders that would be reasonably likely to result in or cause a breach of Xenogen’s representations and warranties set forth in the merger agreement. The stockholders that signed the voting agreements beneficially own approximately 37 percent of our outstanding shares of common stock as of March 1, 2006 and include certain of our executive officers and directors and entities affiliates with them. Future sales of common stock by our existing stockholders may cause our stock price to fall. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales by our existing stockholders of shares of common stock in the market, or the perception that these sales could occur. These sales might also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities at a time and price that we deem appropriate. Most of our shares are freely tradable without restriction or further regulation, other than shares purchased by our officers, directors or other “affiliates” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Also, many of our employees and consultants may exercise their stock options in order to sell the stock underlying their options in the market under a registration statement we have filed with the SEC. Our charter documents and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover that stockholders consider favorable and could also limit the market price of investors’ stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could also delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Among these provisions are the following: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock which can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior stockholder approval, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; 33 Table of Contents • prohibit stockholder actions by written consent; and • provide for a classified board of directors. In addition, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law. These provisions may prohibit stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Section 203 of Delaware General Corporate Law and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law could reduce the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future and result in the market price being lower than it would be without these provisions. 