Risk Factors This Form 20-F contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Form 20-F. We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 20-F, information contained in other filings with the SEC, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “expects,” “anticipates” or “believes” to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing businesses, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. Table of Contents RISK RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR INDUSTRY Telecommunications Business Reductions in telecommunications tariffs in India and in the prices that we charge for our communication services have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition Telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years, peak international call tariffs have declined from Rs. 48 per minute in 2002 to Rs.12 per minute as of 2007 as a result of deregulation of tariffs and increased competition. The Department of Telecom (“DoT”) also relaxed the license conditions for international long distance (ILD) and national long distance (NLD) services and reduced the entry fee for these businesses from Rs. 250 million and Rs. 1 billion respectively to Rs.25 million, effective January 1, 2006. Furthermore, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (“TRAI”) has reduced the access deficit charge (“ADC”) on incoming ILD calls from Rs.1.60 per minute in fiscal 2006 to Rs.1.00 per minute in fiscal 2007 and removed the per minute ADC of Rs.0.80 on outgoing ILD calls. In addition, it also continues to impose a requirement for telecom operators to pay to it ADC as a percentage revenue share which currently is 0.75% of the operator's adjusted gross revenue (“AGR”). Wholesale voice revenues constituted 61.70% in 2007 of the Company’s total revenues. The decline in tariffs and the reduction of ADCs, while resulting in a traffic volume growth spurt, has materially and adversely affected the Company’s revenues and net income. In addition, we expect to continue to experience decreasing prices for our communications services: • as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks; • as a result of our current agreements with customers which often contain volume based pricing or other contractually agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the agreement; • through technological advances or otherwise; and • as volume based pricing becomes more prevalent. Accordingly, our historical revenue is not indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. As the prices for our communications services decrease for whatever reason, then unless volume increases or we are able to offer additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial results will suffer. Increased industry capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services Additional network capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline due to capacity increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions. Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various telecommunications services. There is an increase in the number of players offering various forms of data products and this sector is witnessing increased competition and reduced tariffs. Although, the Company has been a market leader in offering data products in India, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its market leader position and reduced tariffs will cause significant reduction in its revenues and thereby profits. As a result of delays in the implementation of the new Carrier Access Code regime in India, we continue to depend on other telecommunications providers for access to end customers All international calls we carry that either originate or terminate in India must pass through access telephone networks, which we do not own or control. Demand for our international outgoing telephony services will depend, to a significant degree, on the rates charged to end users in India, access to whom is controlled by competitors such as Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL), Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), Bharti and Reliance. The Government of India’s proposed Carrier Access Code (“CAC”) regime offers end customers the right to choose their NLD or ILD carrier, based on rates and quality, rather than such choice being made by the access provider. Implementation of the CAC regime has been delayed due to technical and other issues. BSNL and MTNL currently control access to a majority of the end customers. Because of their “Most Favoured Customer” arrangement with the Company, they used the Company as their preferred ILD carrier until February 2004. Since February 2004, we have been dependent on the implementation of the CAC regime to develop our own customer base for the outgoing international telephony market. There can be no assurances that the CAC will be implemented in the near future or that even if the CAC is implemented, end customers will choose the Company as their preferred ILD carrier. The Company’s revenues from BSNL and MTNL, two of our larger customers, have declined significantly in recent years and may continue to do so. This is primarily the result of changes in government regulation which have increased competition in our businesses. Gross voice revenues from BSNL and MTNL collectively in fiscal 2007 was Rs. 3,846 million compared to Rs.4,500 million during fiscal 2005. After the termination of its ILD services monopoly and its “Most Favoured Customer” status in 2002 and February 2004 respectively, the Company has been competing with other ILD operators for BSNL and MTNL’s traffic. In the event BSNL and/or MTNL cease to route or reduce the volume of their international traffic through the Company or seek to further renegotiate rates, the amount of call traffic carried by the Company and the Company’s revenues and margins could be further adversely affected. Furthermore, BSNL has been granted operating licenses for international telephony services by the Government of India and has started ILD operations. In March 2004, the Company and BSNL signed an agreement pursuant to which BSNL may use our infrastructure to route its ILD traffic. BSNL commenced utilizing our infrastructure under this arrangement during fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2007, BSNL also started exchanging traffic with international carriers directly on its submarine cable (Bharat Lanka Cable) through Colombo. There can be no assurance that BSNL will continue to route its ILD traffic through the Company in sufficient volumes or that the terms of the agreement will not be modified to the Company’s detriment. During fiscal 2005, our infrastructure sharing agreement with BSNL was renegotiated and renewed until March 2007 resulting in lower revenues for the Company. This agreement was further negotiated during this fiscal year resulting in lower margins for the Company. We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights needed to expand and operate our network, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights that are obtained could materially adversely affect us. Table of Contents Competition in the Indian telecommunications sector is expected to intensify, further affecting our business adversely The Indian telecommunications sector continues to be intensely competitive and we face competition in each of our lines of business. We expect further competition as the existing and new operators expand their operations and services, there is more industry consolidation and we enter new businesses. Our competitors in the ILD business have resorted to steep rate cuts that we have had to match to remain competitive affecting our traffic minutes, revenues and market share adversely. All fixed line, cellular and NLD operators in India have experienced increased competition in recent years. Faced with downward pressures on tariffs and revenues in their core businesses, these operators have demanded rate cuts from their ILD providers. BSNL, has already begun offering its own ILD services and other fixed line operators such as MTNL have said that they may start offering such services shortly. Some of the other telecom operators who offer fixed and wireless including mobile services are also NLD and ILD operators and carry not only their own traffic but also bid for traffic from other operators including BSNL and MTNL. In addition, with the government of India announcing relaxation of the licensing conditions and reduction of Entry Fees for International and Domestic Long Distance services from January 2006, more operators have started applying for licences and are likely to start operations and intensify competition further. Further, the Regulatory regime in India also permits negotiated rates for carriage of NLD calls. Many of the existing access providers are likely to acquire/have acquired NLD and / or ILD licences. This is likely to affect the addressable market of the Company resulting in drop in traffic volumes and revenues from NLD and ILD business. In some lines of our international businesses such as private leased circuits, end users are customers of foreign carriers and in case the foreign carriers decide to choose our competitors over us, we may lose revenues in those lines of business. Further, the Government of India permitted the provision of Internet telephony by Internet Service Providers (“ISP”) in India with effect from April 1, 2002. Furthermore, an increasing number of international calls to and from India are being made through the Internet, and this number is likely to increase substantially. While the effect of Internet telephony has been minimal due to the low rates prevailing in the ILD market and the limited penetration of computers in India, competition from this sector could adversely affect the Company’s telephony revenues in the future. We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network or we will not generate profits We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network. This is particularly because since 2002, our revenue mix has changed significantly from a voice centric to a more diverse model in terms of both products and geographic reach. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and develop new large-volume customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable. Further certain costs including costs related to repairs and maintenance can be of fixed nature and in the absence of revenues shall continue to adversely impact our profitability. Illegal international telephony operators have adversely affected our call volumes Our call volumes have been adversely affected by the international telephony services offered by illegal operators in India. These operators offer cheaper services since they do not pay Interconnect Usage Charges (“IUCs”) or ADCs or other regulatory payments including license fees and taxes. According to various market estimates these operators have captured around 20 percent of the incoming ILD traffic into India. The Company has suggested to the TRAI that the reduction of IUCs by phasing out or reducing the ADCs will ensure that illegal operators have no competitive advantage or arbitrage opportunities. While the ADCs have been reduced for international traffic terminating in India, there still exists an arbitrage of about Rs.1.00 per minute (being the current applicable ADC) for the illegal operators. Until the TRAI phases out the ADC component in the IUC and the Government of India implements strict measures to effectively prevent illegal telephony services, we expect our business to be adversely affected by illegal operators. Telecommunications carriers that we do business with could suffer decreasing margins and financial distress, which may negatively impact our business As an international telecommunications service provider, the Company does significant business with foreign carriers all over the world. Several telecommunications carriers have in the recent past suffered reduced profit margins as well as significant financial pressures. Some of these companies have been acquired by other U.S. or European companies and are undergoing restructuring of their businesses. If any of the major carriers that we do business with encounters financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to recover amounts owed to us. There can be no assurance that all the Company’s receivables can be collected or that the Company will not be adversely affected by the financial difficulties of other carriers. International voice telecommunications services continue to see market price erosion and a decrease/slow growth in traffic volume from our traditional customer base, which may negatively impact our business Market pricing for international wholesale voice telecommunications services continues to see annual declines between 5-10 percent. As pricing approaches the cost of transmission and far-end termination, the Company may experience lower per unit net revenue, which will adversely impact the net income earned from the international voice business. In addition, while overall international voice traffic volumes are expected to continue to grow over the next 5 years, traffic growth will be driven by emerging wholesale customer segments. The Company’s traditional strength and market share in international voice telecommunications has been driven by traditional, incumbent carrier relationships (a segment that is expected to experience a decline in volumes). It is possible for the Company to maintain or marginally grow our current market share in each of the primary customer segments (Carrier, Mobile, ISP/Broadband/Web Telephony) but still experience overall market share decline because our growth rate could be slower than that of our competitors. Inability to meet industry growth estimates from each customer segment will adversely impact the net revenue and income of the international wholesale voice business. Our Mobile Global Roaming business may decline due to changing technologies Our wireless Mobile Global Roaming business provides roaming services for GSM, Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network, or iDen, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, or UMTS, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, networks around the world. However, it may be more difficult for us to provide roaming between other network standards, including networks based on third generation, or 3G, standards, because our service may not be able to work with such other standards to identify mobile subscribers’ locations and profiles. Within the last several years, some roaming providers have begun to use protocol gateways that translate data from disparate networks into a single common language that permits the provision of roaming service to a variety of network types. As roaming services independent of the core GSM/UTMS network specifications become more prevalent, demand for our services may reduce which would have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and financial performance. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business We have operations and investments outside of India and the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; Table of Contents • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in India and the U.S.; • foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in India and U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including managed services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors, and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings, including new managed services, may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and be required to impair any assets or information technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new managed services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. Any serious damage to the undersea telecommunications cable systems utilized by the Company might adversely affect the Company’s traffic and thereby its revenues A major part of the Company’s international traffic is routed through undersea cable systems landing in India and other parts of the world as well as through cable systems between different countries. These cables are prone to damage including cable cuts. Although such damage is normally not serious in nature and traffic can often be routed through the other remaining cable systems and satellites, serious damage could occur. Any serious damage to major cables could seriously disrupt traffic, leading to losses in revenue. Internal Risks Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses The integration of acquired businesses, including those referenced immediately below, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • higher integration costs than anticipated; • failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings, including through re-structuring activities; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies. If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses or operations, we may experience material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition. Recent acquisitions include: • Tyco Global Network (“TGN”) for cash consideration of Rs.5,359 million plus acquisition costs of Rs. 785 million, in June 2005; • Tata Power Broadband Limited (now VSNL Broadband Limited) for a purchase consideration of Rs.2,021 million in October 2005;. • Teleglobe International Holdings Ltd. (“Teleglobe”) for cash consideration of Rs.7,924 million plus acquisition costs of Rs.316 million in February 2006; and • Direct Internet Limited (“DIL”) and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Primus Telecommunications India Limited for a purchase consideration of Rs.945 million in June 2006. We have also entered into a joint venture to provide telecommunications services in South Africa, which would require the Company to make significant investments. We may make further acquisitions or enter into other strategic partnerships to expand our access to customers, acquire new service offerings and/or enhance our technical capabilities. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services is held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. Table of Contents To the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. Impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in various jurisdictions worldwide may not prevent misappropriation, and our failure to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise appropriate our proprietary network information. Our agreements with employees and others who participate in development activities could be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business We believe that our success in the future will depend to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We expect to experience significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. Our business is managed by a team of key executive officers and their immediate teams. Loss of any of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have started to implement a major restructuring plan in the international operations to achieve synergies and to improve the financial performance of these operations. In the event these plans are not successfully implemented due to internal or external reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we become the victim of fraud or theft of services The industry in which we operate has incurred losses in the last several years due to fraud. Unauthorized transactions or theft of our services could reduce our profitability substantially. Although we have implemented various measures in order to control losses relating to fraudulent practices, we may not succeed in effectively controlling fraud when operating in the international or domestic Indian telecommunications markets. We endeavor to manage these theft and fraud risks through our internal controls and our monitoring systems. We believe that our risk management practices will be adequate but there is no guarantee that we may succeed in effectively controlling fraud. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot fulfill our commitments on significant contracts We have undertaken a number of complex and large contracts with certain of our wholesale voice and enterprise and carrier data customers. If we fail to execute these contracts on time, it may result in reduction in our future revenues and in turn our profitability. Further, failure to meet our commitments under these contracts would result in damage to our reputation. Our five largest customers collectively accounted for 20 percent of our revenues in fiscal 2007. We operate in an industry which is largely dependent on the decision and actions of our customers and there are various factors outside our control which may lead to termination of contracts. If due to any reason, we lose any of our major customers or they terminate the agreement entered into with the Company, it could negatively impact our revenues as well as our profitability and cash generation ability. Regulatory/Contingent Liabilities Risks Our profitability may be adversely affected if the decisions in respect of “revenue share” disputes are upheld against the Company The Company, in accordance with the terms of its license, has to pay a certain percentage of its AGR to the telecom licensor in India. The Company has disputed the definition of AGR and the matters are at various stages of dispute as per the dispute resolution process prevailing in the Indian telecom regulatory environment. In the event these matters are upheld against us, the Company’s profitability may be materially impacted, which may lead to significant cash outflow towards such “revenue share” payments to the telecom licensor in addition to punitive action as per license terms. If certain tax claims by the Indian tax authorities are upheld, our financial condition would be adversely impacted The Company is subject to the following major tax claims in India: • License Fees: The Company’s claims of license fees in fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1998 as deductible expenditure have been disputed by the Income Tax Department. However, the Company has received favorable decisions in respect of all these claims. We have not been advised by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) of any appeal that may have been filed by the Income Tax Department. However, in the case of fiscal 1995, wherein the allowance of this expenditure by the ITAT has been challenged by the Income Tax Department in the High court of Judicature at Bombay (High court) which is pending disposal. If the decision is given against the company by the High court, the negative impact on the company would be approximately Rs. 1,400 million (US$ 32.48 million) • Tax Benefit claims: The Indian tax authorities have disallowed tax benefits claimed by the Company in fiscal 1996 to fiscal 2004 with respect to a certain portion of its profits which the Company claims as having been generated by an enterprise engaged in telecommunications, in particular, that it is entitled to a tax holiday under certain regulations. Tax authorities in respect of eight out of the nine fiscal years have disallowed the claims of the Company which have been appealed by the Company before ITAT. ITAT rejected the claim made by the Company for fiscal 1996 and the Company is currently in the process of filing an appeal before the next jurisdictional authority i.e. High Court. The order of ITAT is effective for fiscal 1996 and should be construed in isolation for that year having a total tax cost on account of the tax benefit of Rs. 105 Million (US$ 2.41 million), excluding interest. A decision in respect of the balance one fiscal year is pending before tax authorities. If all of the claims appealed are decided against the Company, the aggregate negative impact on the Company would be approximately Rs. 5,374 million (US$ 123.40 million). Table of Contents • Tax on Reimbursements: Certain reimbursements received from the Government of India during fiscal 1994 were not offered for taxation and the Indian tax authorities levied taxes (inclusive of interest but excluding penalties) of Rs.3,302 million (US$ 75.82 million) which the Company paid under protest. The Company’s appeal has been dismissed by the first appellate authority. The Company has appealed to the ITAT. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Company would be negatively impacted by that amount. • Levy of penalty: On account of disallowances of various claims / expenses in fiscal 2000, 2001 and 2002, a penalty aggregating Rs. 6,830 million (US $156.83 million) has been levied by the Indian tax authorities which has been contested by the Company. If the decision is not made in favour of the Company, there would be a negative impact on the Company to the tune of Rs. 6,830 million (US $156.83 million). We may not receive additional compensation from the Government of India for the early termination of our monopoly in international telephony services The Government of India allowed private operators to start offering ILD services from April 1, 2002, thereby terminating the Company’s exclusivity in offering such services two years ahead of schedule, and compensated the Company with a package of benefits. The Government of India had given assurance prior to the disinvestment of the Company that it would consider additional compensation if found necessary following a detailed review, when undertaken. However, prior to disinvestment of the Company in February 2002, the Government granted a dispensation as full and final settlement of every sort of claim against the early termination of the Company’s ILD monopoly. The Company has been pursuing the Government of India to consider providing it with additional compensation. Since legalities warranted the filing of a complaint with the High Court within the stipulated time to ensure that the claim is not barred by limitation, VSNL has filed a claim in the High Court for such additional compensation. There can be no assurance that the claim will be successful and the Company will receive compensation from the Government of India, or if the Company does receive compensation, as to the amount, nature or timing of such compensation. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India, which could adversely affect the operation of our business and prevent us from entering into transactions that are in the best interests of our shareholders The Company and its businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India and its departments, including the DoT, which issues and implements the telecommunications licenses under the Indian Telegraph Act and the TRAI which, among other things, sets the terms and conditions which telecommunications operators are required to follow in their activities. The Company operates substantially all of the ILD services it provides in India, including basic international telephony services to and from India, pursuant to a new license agreement with the Government of India that is valid until March 31, 2022. The Company also holds an NLD license and an ISP license. The DoT retains the right to modify the terms and conditions of the Company’s licenses at any time if in its opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunication sector. A change in certain significant terms of any of the licenses, such as their duration, the range of services permitted or the scope of exclusivity, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The DoT as the licensor is empowered to revoke the license granted by it for any breach of the license conditions. The Company must also annually obtain various radio spectrum operating license from the Wireless Planning and Co-ordination Wing of the Ministry of Communications (WPC). Although it expects to obtain such renewals, the non-renewal or modification of these or any of its licenses, or punitive action by the Government of India for continuing these services without renewal of the license, could adversely affect the Company and result in lost revenues. TRAI’s clearance is required for all the Company’s new initiatives on issues of pricing or the launch of new products. Failure to follow the TRAI directives may lead to the imposition of fines and other punitive actions. Any disputes between the Company and the Government of India (as the licensor) regarding the terms of the Company’s telecommunications licenses, as well as any dispute between the Company and the other service providers in India, is required to be adjudicated by the Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (“TDSAT”). Failure to follow the TRAI directives or TDSAT orders may lead to the imposition of fines and/or other punitive actions. Accordingly, Government regulation and supervision could require us to enter into transactions or conduct our business in a manner that is not in the best interests of our shareholders. Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we do business could adversely affect our business The Company has interests in a large number of geographic areas across the world and must comply with an extensive range of requirements that are meant to regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of telecommunications networks and services. These requirements are likely to increase with the Company’s increased overseas expansion. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the telecommunications industry. Decisions by regulators in various geographic areas regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licenses, to the Company or to third parties, could adversely affect the Company’s future operations in these geographic areas. The Company cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which it intends to operate will issue the required telecommunications licenses. Additionally, decisions by regulators could further adversely affect the pricing for services the Company offers or intends to offer. Further, as a multinational enterprise, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation by state, federal and foreign regulators. Some of the jurisdictions where we provide services have little, if any, written regulations regarding our operations. In addition, the written regulations and guidelines that do exist in a jurisdiction may not specifically address our operations. If our interpretation of these regulations and guidelines is incorrect, we may incur additional expenses to comply with additional regulations applicable to our operations. It is possible that one or more governmental agencies will disagree with our interpretation of existing laws or regulations and assert that our operations are not in compliance with those laws or regulations. In that event, it is possible that the governmental agency might initiate an enforcement action or impose restrictions on our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. Financial Risk We have incurred substantial debt which could adversely affect us. The Company incurred substantial debt in fiscal 2007 primarily to finance its acquisitions. As of March 31, 2007, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was approximately Rs. 24,082 million (US$558.75 million). We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include: • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; • instances in which we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements or to generate cash sufficient to make required debt payments, which circumstances have the potential of accelerating the maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness. In particular, if we are unable to implement our business plans in respect of the acquisitions financed by our indebtedness, we may be in breach of the repayment schedules as well as covenants in certain of our debt agreements; Table of Contents • the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, including operating costs, capital expenditures, and dividends that could improve our competitive position or results of operations; • requiring us to sell debt or equity securities or to sell some of our core assets, possibly on unfavourable terms, to meet payment obligations; • compromising our flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and • the possibility of our being put at a competitive disadvantage with competitors who do not have as much debt as us, and competitors who may be in a more favourable position to access additional capital resources. Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs We are dependent on key third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our network. We are also dependent on key suppliers who maintain our extensive cable assets (not restricted to undersea cable assets) for repairs and maintenance of these various forms of cable systems. If any of these relationships is terminated or a key supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment, we might be unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly and consequently could experience significant additional costs. If that happens, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operation. We have made, and in the future might make, substantial capital investments in new telecommunications projects which may be subject to liquidity and execution risk and, if not offset by additional revenue, might adversely affect our financial condition and operating results We have made, and might in the future make, substantial additional investments in new telecommunications projects, including in connection with technology upgrades and geographic expansion. These investments could require significant capital expenditures. The Company expended approximately Rs.10,091 million (US$234.13 million) towards capital expenditure in fiscal 2007 and we expect our capital expenditure in fiscal 2008 to be approximately Rs. 39,870 million (US$925.06 million) If this capital is not available when needed or if it is available on terms that are not attractive, our business will be adversely affected. In particular, recent uncertainty in the international credit markets, including developments related to concerns about the United States sub-prime mortgage market, may adversely affect our ability to obtain financing. Increasing competition, offering new services such as our proposed cable projects, improving the capabilities or reducing the maintenance costs of our equipment or cost overruns or delays in our projects may cause our capital expenditures to increase in the future. Furthermore, telecommunications technology evolves rapidly and there can be no assurance that any investments in new technology will have a positive impact on the Company’s financial results nor that the Company’s capital expenditures in such projects will be offset by adequate additional revenue or margins. Litigation could be harmful and costly to our business We are defending material litigation described in Item 8 –“Legal Proceedings”. Regardless of the outcome, we will incur substantial legal costs. In addition, this type of litigation may strain our resources and divert management attention, causing our business to suffer. Further, any adverse outcomes in such lawsuits could materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. Absence of a robust Business Continuity Plan could affect our business adversely The Company’s operations are dependent on various information technology (IT) systems and applications which may not be adequately supported by a robust business continuity plan. Absence of a robust Business Continuity Plan can seriously impact our business in the event of a disaster of any nature. We may not be able to continue to comply with corporate governance regulations applicable to us as a public company, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act, 2002 and we could also be adversely impacted due to higher costs of compliance We are subject to various accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure regulations as a public company in the United States and India. We may not always be able to meet such requirements, and we also face increasing costs related to such compliance. Among other factors, because we have made significant acquisitions and because of changes in our services and business as a result of technological, regulatory and competitive changes and delays in implementation of new information technology systems, we may face difficulties and increased costs in sustaining such compliance. In particular, our efforts to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act, 2002 relating to the evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, have resulted in increased compliance costs. As set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 20-F, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of March 31, 2007. Our auditors will be required to deliver an attestation concerning our report on internal control over financial reporting commencing with our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2008. There is no assurance that our management, or our auditors, will conclude our financial reporting is effective in any future period. In connection with the audit of the statutory financial statements in India, our independent auditors of our Indian GAAP financial statements in an annexure to their report thereon, noted that our internal controls for rendering of certain enterprise data services needed to be strengthened. We are in the process of implementing remedial actions towards strengthening such internal controls. The auditor’s report on our Indian GAAP financial statements including the annexure thereto forms part of our Indian annual report which is available on our website www.vsnl.com. Any failure to maintain effective control over financial reporting could result in adverse consequences such as errors or misstatements in our financial reporting or fraud. A failure to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley, 2002, or of other corporate governance or similar regulations could result in investigations or sanctions by regulatory authorities, among other things. Any such consequences could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and on the trading price of our securities. Country Risks The Company’s business may be adversely affected by any slowdown in economic growth in India, the United States or other countries where the Company does business or by a slowdown in the growth of the IT sector The growth of telecommunications traffic is related to general economic growth and slowdowns in the Indian economy could result in slower growth rates in telecommunications traffic in India. A significant part of the Company’s revenues are derived from calls Table of Contents originating in India and the United States. During the year ended March 2007, approximately 27.70 percent and 21.77 percent of the Company’s operating revenues were from India and the United States, respectively. Slowdowns in the US economy, as well as in other countries where the Company does significant business, may negatively affect our business. The IT sector is a major contributor to the telephony and leased channel revenues of the Company and therefore the Company’s revenues might be adversely affected by slowdowns in the IT sector. A substantial portion of Company’s assets are located in India and the outstanding shares are listed on the Indian stock exchanges. Accordingly, the Company’s performance, the market price and liquidity of the shares and of the ADS may be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, government policy and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting India Since 1991, successive governments in India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators remains significant in ways that affect all Indian companies, including the Company. India held elections for a new Government in April-May 2004 and the Government changed for the sixth time since 1996. Since no party won a majority of the seats in the Lok Sabha (the lower house of Parliament) in the elections, the present Government is made up of a multiparty coalition. There can be no assurance that the Government, which is presently supported by other political allies, will continue to receive such support. The next general elections are due to be held in 2009. Political instability could delay the reforms of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our shares and ADS. While the Government of India has pledged to go ahead with its reforms, given the dynamics of coalition politics, there can be no assurance that all the previous Government’s reform policies will be carried forward. Although we believe that economic liberalization will continue in the future, there is no assurance that this will be so. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and the Company’s business Terrorist attacks, such as the ones that occurred in U.S. and India in 2001 and in Mumbai, India in 2003 and 2006 and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect the Indian markets where the Company’s Equity Shares trade and also adversely affect the world-wide financial markets. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence, make travel and other services more difficult and ultimately adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that there will not be any further terrorist attacks against India, the United States or any other country. Also as a result of such events, India, the United States or certain other countries where the Company has or may have major business interests may enter into armed conflict with other countries. The consequences of any potential armed conflicts are unpredictable. In addition, India has from time to time experienced unrest relating to religious and political differences within India’s population, as well as with its neighboring country Pakistan. Any increase in regional or international hostilities, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could have a significant adverse impact on international and/or Indian financial markets or economic conditions or on Indian Government policy, thereby disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, or the market price for the Company’s Equity Shares and the ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the shares and the ADSs The Indian securities markets are smaller in terms of trading volume and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities. It is generally perceived that there is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants than in securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have experienced trading interruptions in the past on account of regulatory interventions as well as operational issues. If these interruptions were to recur, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including the Equity Shares and ADSs, in both domestic and international markets. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the Shares and the ADSs. The Company and you may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion rates between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and the Dollar will affect, among other things, the Dollar equivalents of the price of the Equity Shares in Rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the Dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the Dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Rupees of a sale of Equity Shares in India. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee, the SDR (or “Special Drawing Rights”, which are based on a basket of key international currencies and are frequently used in foreign currency payment settlements) and other currencies also affect the Rupee amount of foreign currency settlement payments received by the Company from, and paid by the Company to, foreign telecommunications administrations and therefore the revenue and operating costs of the Company. The Company may as a result be exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies, which effectively may increase the cost in Rupee terms of foreign exchange payments required to be made by the Company, including payments to foreign telecommunications administrations and payments for imported equipment and technology. To reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuation on our operating result, the Company uses derivative instruments such as forward contracts to cover a portion of outstanding accounts receivables; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid the adverse affects of exchange rate fluctuations. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against the Company The Company is a limited liability company organized under the laws of India. All of the directors and officers of the Company and certain other persons named herein are residents of India, and all or a significant portion of the assets of all of the directors and officers and a substantial portion of the assets of the Company are located in India. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon the Company or such directors or officers outside India or to enforce against them judgments obtained from courts outside India, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. The statutory basis for determining conclusiveness of foreign judgments in India is provided in Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (the “Code”) of India, which provides that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (1) where the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) where the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case, (3) where the judgment appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where such law is applicable, (4) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (5) where the judgment has been obtained by fraud Table of Contents and (6) where the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Code, which deals with the enforcement and execution of foreign judgments, provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a court in any country or territory outside India which the Government of India has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. The United Kingdom, but not the United States, has been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 44A. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by way of a suit instituted upon the judgment in accordance with the Code and not by proceedings in execution. Furthermore, it is uncertain that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any amount recovered. Dealings with telecom service providers in countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and/or investor(s) in the U.S. and/or other countries to circumvent doing business with us The United States, and from time to time other countries, have laws that may prohibit or restrict their citizens from engaging in business in certain countries, or that otherwise impose economic sanctions on such countries. International bodies such as the United Nations may also impose sanctions on certain countries from time to time. The United States currently has laws that prohibit or restrict its citizens from doing business in Cuba, Iran, the Sudan and Syria. As a major provider of international telecommunications services to customers in India, the Company enters into interconnection agreements with communications providers around the world. The Company has entered into agreements with providers located in certain of such countries, and entered into arrangements to facilitate the carrying of telecommunications traffic to and from such countries, and it may do so in the future. The Company does not believe that its business activities in or other contacts with Cuba, Iran, the Sudan or Syria are material in quantitative terms. The Company also believes that the business activities are qualitatively immaterial in terms of the factors that a reasonable investor would deem important in making an investment decision, including factors that would affect the Company’s reputation or share value. Specifically, the Company believes that such activities are immaterial because they represent the ordinary arrangements that any global provider of telecommunications services would have with providers all over the world. Indeed, as the exclusive provider of ILD traffic until 2002, unless so ordered to do so by law, it would have been inappropriate for the Company to refuse to accept traffic from particular countries, or refuse to carry traffic to particular countries. The Company believes the loss of its monopoly status does not affect the fact that it should continue to provide services globally. It is possible that in the future sanctions of this type imposed by the United States or others could adversely affect our ability to do business or the ability of investors to hold our securities. Promotors/Shareholders Risks The Company is substantially owned by some of the Tata companies and the Government of India, who have significant rights in relation to the election of the Company’s board of directors (“Board of Directors”) and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders including holders of our ADSs. As of March 31, 2007, Panatone Finvest Limited, a company wholly owned by some of the Tata companies, owns approximately 40.70 percent, and the Government of India owns approximately 26.12 percent, of our total outstanding equity. Two other Tata companies own approximately 9.41 percent of our total outstanding equity. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement pursuant to which they have agreed on certain matters with respect to the governance and operation of the Company, including the composition and election of the board of directors. As of September 15, 2007, our Board of Directors consisted of twelve members, six of whom were nominated by Panatone Finvest Limited and two of whom were nominated by the Government of India. There were four independent directors on the board as per the provisions of the Shareholders’ Agreement. As a result of their equity holdings and the Shareholders’ Agreement, Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India together have significant control over the matters coming up for consideration at the meetings of the Board and of the shareholders of the Company and they acting together at the meetings have the power to elect the directors and control all matters submitted to shareholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of Panatone Finvest Limited and/or the Government of India would be the same and their respective interests could differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including the holders of ADSs. The Company may face potential conflicts of interest relating to its principal shareholder, the Tata companies The Tata companies have diverse business activities and interests, and some of its affiliates could engage in activities, or seek opportunities, that are or could be in competition with the activities or interests of the Company. The Tata companies have interests in other companies in the telecommunications sector, such as Tata Teleservices Limited. The Tata companies and Panatone Finvest Limited have agreed in a Shareholders’ Agreement to act in the best interests of the Company in the event that they become engaged in activities in competition with the Company. However, any conflicts of interest between these Tata companies and/or Panatone Finvest Limited and the Company could adversely affect the Company’s business. Furthermore, the Company may loose significant amount of business which it is generating from Tata Teleservices Limited, a major contributor to the Company’s NLD business. Disagreements between the Tata companies and the Government of India concerning activities of the Company could result in a deadlock, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India have agreed in the Shareholders’ Agreement that the Company shall not undertake certain corporate actions unless at least one director nominated by each of them (in the case of a Board meeting) or at least one authorized representative nominated by each of them (in the case of a shareholder meeting) consents to such action. These actions include any change in the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, the granting of any security or incurring of indebtedness in excess of the net worth of the Company, winding-up the Company, the making of loans in excess of Rs.500 million other than in the ordinary course of business, the sale or lease of any fixed assets acquired prior to privatization and the entering into of an amalgamation, merger, or consolidation. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India have also agreed not to transfer their shares in the Company without giving the other certain rights of first refusal and tag along rights. In the event that Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government of India fail to agree on any such matter, their disagreement could result in the Company not taking action or not taking advantage of a potential opportunity, which could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business or the value of the Company’s ADSs or Equity Shares. The demerger of surplus land held by the Company may not be completed on satisfactory terms. Under the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement, Panatone Finvest Limited agreed that the Company would demerge certain lands that the Company owns in Pune, Kolkata, New Delhi and Chennai, India into a separate company. No time period was specified in the agreement for such demerger. The Company, Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are currently discussing various options in connection with the demerger or sale of the land. Until such time as the demerger takes place, the lands are under the possession and upkeep of the Company. The Company cannot predict if the demerger will take place or the expenditure that the Company might have to incur for the security, upkeep and maintenance of the surplus land. The Company may have to bear significant costs, including taxes and duties, relating to the demerger, and the Company cannot predict what effect, if any, the demerger and the legal and valuation process relating to the demerger will have on the Company’s financial condition. Table of Contents Risk related to the ADSs Sales of our Equity Shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs Sales of substantial amounts of our Equity Shares or the perception that such sales may occur could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our Equity Shares or the ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the issue or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares or the availability of our Equity Shares for future sales, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Holders of ADSs have no voting rights Investors in ADSs have no voting rights unlike holders of the Equity Shares who have voting rights. It is contemplated that the Depositary will exercise its right to vote on the Equity Shares represented by the ADSs as directed by the Company’s Board of Directors. Investors may withdraw the Equity Shares underlying the ADSs and seek to vote the Equity Shares obtained from the withdrawal. However, for foreign investors, this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. There is a limited market for the ADSs Even though the ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is no assurance that any trading market for the ADSs will be sustained. Subsequent to the open/ tender offer by Panatone Finvest Limited, the number of shares represented by ADSs declined from approximately 60 million (21 percent of our issued and outstanding Equity Shares) as of March 31, 2002 to approximately 17 million (6 percent of our issued and outstanding Equity Shares) as of March 31, 2007. This may affect the liquidity of the market for the Company’s ADSs and the price at which they trade. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause the Company’s Equity Shares to trade at a discount or premium relative to the market price of its ADSs Until recently, under Indian law it was not permitted for a depositary to accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADSs evidencing such shares. Thus, an investor in ADSs who surrendered an ADS and withdrew equity shares would not be permitted to redeposit those equity shares to obtain ADSs, nor would an investor who purchased equity shares on the Indian market be permitted to deposit them in the ADS program. The Government of India has recently permitted two-way fungibility of ADSs. However, this is still subject to sectoral caps and certain conditions, including compliance with the provisions of the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depositary Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993 and the periodic guidelines issued by the Government and also registration requirements in the United States. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause the Company’s Equity Shares to trade at a discount or premium to its ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us Under the Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourth of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obliged to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision on whether to do so will depend on the costs and potential benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 