Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business is subject to numerous risks. We caution you that the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf in filings with the SEC, press releases, communications with investors and oral statements. Any or all of our forward-looking statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any other public statements we make may turn out to be wrong. They may be affected by inaccurate assumptions we might make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. Many factors mentioned in the discussion below will be important in determining future results. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed. Actual future results may vary materially from those anticipated in forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You are advised, however, to consult any further disclosure we make in our reports filed with the SEC. Risks Relating to Our Business We depend on a single OEM customer that recently filed for bankruptcy protection, Nortel Networks, for almost all of our revenue and billings, and a significant shortfall in sales to Nortel Networks would significantly harm our business and operating results. We derived almost all of our revenue and billings in each of the last several years from sales to a single OEM customer, Nortel Networks. Nortel Networks accounted for 99% of our revenue and 93% of our billings in fiscal 2008, 99% of our revenue and 98% of our billings in fiscal 2007 and 95% of our revenue and 94% of our billings in fiscal 2006. On January 14, 2009, Nortel Networks announced that it and certain of its affiliates had filed for bankruptcy protection. At the time of that filing, we had $21.8 million in outstanding invoices to Nortel Networks and approximately $12 million to $13 million of unbilled amounts related to royalties earned through January 13, 2009. The collection of these amounts is subject to Nortel Networks’ bankruptcy proceedings and it is likely that a 19 Table of Contents portion or all of these amounts will not be collected. As a result, we have excluded the $21.8 million of outstanding invoices to Nortel Networks from accounts receivable and deferred revenue as of December 28, 2008 and billings for the quarter and year ended December 28, 2008. Since the date of Nortel Networks’ bankruptcy filing, we and Nortel Networks have continued to deliver products and services to Nortel Networks’ CDMA EV-DO wireless operators under the terms of Nortel Networks’ existing agreement with us. We are continuing to incur costs related to the research and development of future software releases for Nortel Networks. Although we intend to work with Nortel Networks to have our agreement assumed, there can be no assurance that Nortel Networks will assume its agreement with us or that we will recover our costs. If our agreement with Nortel Networks is assumed, Nortel Networks will be required to become current in all of its outstanding obligations to us, including obligations outstanding prior to January 14, 2009. If our agreement is not assumed, all outstanding obligations (billed and unbilled invoices) will be subject to discharge and we likely will not be able to collect these receivables in full. Should Nortel Networks not assume its agreement with us, we would cease to do business with Nortel Networks unless we could agree with Nortel Networks on the terms for a new agreement. Any new terms agreed to could be less favorable to us than our current agreement. In addition, because of Nortel Networks’ bankruptcy filing, operators may slow their purchases of infrastructure solutions from Nortel Networks, which would harm our business. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur some costs related to working with Nortel Networks to assume our contract and collect our outstanding invoices. This process could be time consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Even if Nortel Networks agrees to assume our contract, Nortel Networks can terminate that contract at any time and, in any event, the contract does not contain commitments for future purchases of our products. The rate at which Nortel Networks purchases products from us depends on its success in selling to operators its own EV-DO infrastructure solutions that include our products. There can be no assurance that Nortel Networks will continue to devote and invest significant resources and capital to its wireless infrastructure business or that it will be successful in the future in such business. Nortel Networks might seek to develop internally, or acquire from a third party, alternative wireless solutions to those currently purchased from us. In addition, Nortel Networks may seek to develop an alternative solution by utilizing technology that has been developed by LG Electronics, with which Nortel Networks has a joint venture. Consolidation is common in the telecommunications industry. Should Nortel Networks merge its wireless infrastructure businesses with another telecommunications company, Nortel Networks could seek to deploy alternative solutions by utilizing technology that has been developed by the other company. We expect to derive a substantial majority of our revenue, billings and cash flow in fiscal 2009 from Nortel Networks, and therefore any adverse change in our relationship with Nortel Networks, or a significant decline or shortfall in our sales to Nortel Networks, would significantly harm our business and operating results. Because our OEM business model requires us to defer the recognition of most of our revenue from product and service sales until we deliver specified upgrades, and in some cases to further defer a portion of our revenue until applicable warranty periods expire, our revenue in any period is not likely to be indicative of the level of our sales activity in that period. We recognize revenue from the sale of products and services under our OEM agreements only after we deliver specified upgrades to those products that were committed at the time of sale. The period of development of these upgrades can range from 12 to 24 months after the date of commitment. As a result, most of our revenue in any quarter typically reflects license fees under our OEM agreements for products and services delivered and invoiced to customers several quarters earlier. For these products and services, we generally record the amount of the invoice as deferred revenue and then begin to recognize such deferred revenue as revenue upon delivery of the committed software upgrades. When we cannot establish vendor specific objective evidence, or VSOE, of fair value for our maintenance and support services, we recognize a portion of the product and services revenue based on the portion of the maintenance period that has elapsed when the revenue first becomes recognizable, and we recognize the remaining portion of that product and services revenue ratably over the remaining maintenance period. As a result, our revenue is not likely to be indicative of the level of our sales activity in any period. Due to our OEM business model, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, any quarter in which we recognize a significant amount of deferred revenue as a result of our delivery of a previously committed upgrade will be followed by one or more quarters of insignificant revenue as we defer revenue while we develop additional upgrades. Investors may 20 Table of Contents encounter difficulties in tracking the performance of our business because our revenue will not reflect the level of our billings in any period, and these difficulties could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our revenue and billings growth may be constrained by our product concentration and lack of revenue diversification. Almost all of our revenue and billings to date have been derived from sales of our EV-DO products, and we expect EV-DO revenues to remain a major contributor to revenue for the foreseeable future. Continued market acceptance of these products is critical to our future success. The future demand for our EV-DO products depends, in large part, on the continued expansion of the EV-DO-based wireless networks currently deployed by operators and determinations by additional operators to deploy EV-DO-based wireless networks. Demand for our EV-DO products also depends on our ability to continue to develop and deliver on a timely basis product upgrades to enable operators to enhance the performance of their networks and implement new mobile broadband services. Any decline in demand for EV-DO products, or inability on our part to develop and deliver product upgrades that meet the needs of operators, would adversely affect our business and operating results. A majority of our current products are based exclusively on the CDMA2000 air interface standard for wireless communications, and therefore any movement by existing or prospective operator customers to a different standard could impair our business and operating results. There are multiple competing air interface standards for wireless communications networks. A majority of our current products are based exclusively on the CDMA2000 air interface standard, which handles a majority of wireless subscribers in the United States. Other standards, such as GSM/UMTS, are currently the primary standards used by wireless operators in mobile networks worldwide. Our EV-DO products do not operate in networks using the GSM/UMTS standards. We believe there are a limited number of operators that have not already chosen the air interface standard to deploy in their 3G wireless networks. Our success will therefore depend, to a significant degree, on whether operators that have currently deployed CDMA2000-based networks expand and upgrade their networks and whether additional operators that have not yet deployed 3G networks select CDMA2000 as their standard. Our business will be harmed if operators currently utilizing the CDMA2000 standard transition their networks to a competing standard and we have not at that time developed and begun to offer competitive products that are compatible with that standard. Our business will also be harmed if operators that have currently deployed both CDMA and GSM/UMTS networks determine to focus more of their resources on their GSM/UMTS networks. The introduction of fourth generation wireless technology could reduce spending on our EV-DO products and therefore harm our operating results. The standards for mobile broadband solutions are expected to evolve into a fourth generation of wireless standards, known as 4G. Wireless operators have announced plans to build networks based on the 4G standard. For example, Verizon Wireless, Bell Mobility and TELUS have each announced its intent to build 4G networks using the Long Term Evolution, or LTE, standard and Sprint Nextel has announced its intent to build a 4G network using WiMAX technology. In addition, Bell Mobility and TELUS each recently announced that it will overlay its CDMA networks with UMTS technology as it migrates to the LTE standard. The market for our existing EV-DO products is likely to decline if and when operators begin to delay expenditures for EV-DO products in anticipation of the availability of new 4G-based products. Our primary OEM customer, Nortel Networks, has publicly announced that it is developing 4G-based LTE products. We do not have an agreement to supply Nortel Networks with any 4G-based products. We believe that it is likely that Nortel Networks will choose to enter into partnerships for 4G-based products with one or more of our competitors or choose to develop these products internally. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop and market new products compatible with 4G standards and the acceptance of those products by operators. The development and introduction of these products will be time consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to correctly anticipate the market for 4G-compatible products and related business trends. Any inability to develop successfully 4G-based products could harm significantly our future business and operating results. 21 Table of Contents In 2008, Qualcomm indicated to us that we may owe royalties on EV-DO products that we sold beginning in 2007. If we are required to pay these royalties, our business and operating results would be harmed. Some of the technology that we incorporate into our EV-DO products and sell to Nortel Networks is licensed from Qualcomm. Historically, we utilized this technology under license agreements between our company and Qualcomm and between Nortel Networks and Qualcomm. Some of the royalties for this technology were paid to Qualcomm by Nortel Networks. In March 2008, Qualcomm undertook an audit of the royalties that were paid in respect of the EV-DO products that we sold between 2003 and 2007. In connection with the audit, Qualcomm indicated that, due to a change in its licensing arrangement with Nortel Networks, we may owe additional royalties of up to approximately $11 million to Qualcomm for products that we sold to Nortel Networks beginning in 2007. We believe that we should not be responsible for any such royalties to Qualcomm because, among other things, we were delivering products to Nortel Networks under Nortel Networks’ license agreement with Qualcomm and we had established a course of dealing with Qualcomm in which Nortel Networks paid the royalties for such licensed technology and we had not been notified of the modifications to Qualcomm’s licensing arrangement with Nortel Networks. As such, we have not provided for any potential liability in regard to this matter. If we are required to pay royalties on either past or future sales of EV-DO products, such payments would adversely affect our operating results. The variable sales and deployment cycles for our EV-DO products are likely to cause our quarterly billings to fluctuate materially. The deployment by operators of wireless infrastructure equipment that enables new end-user services typically occurs in stages, and our quarterly billings will vary significantly depending on the rate at which such deployments occur. Operators will typically make significant initial investments for new equipment to assure that new services facilitated by such equipment are available to end-users throughout the operator’s network. Operators typically will defer significant additional purchases of such equipment until end-user usage of the services offered through such equipment creates demand for increased capacity. Our quarterly billings will typically increase significantly when an operator either chooses initially to deploy an EV-DO network or deploys a significant product upgrade introduced by us, and our quarterly billings will decline in other quarters when those deployments have been completed. It is difficult to anticipate the rate at which operators will deploy our wireless infrastructure products, the rate at which the use of new mobile broadband services will create demand for additional capacity, and the rate at which operators will implement significant product upgrades. For example, our product and service billings in fiscal 2006 reflected an increase in sales of software for OEM base station channel cards that support Rev A as operators ramped up their deployments of EV-DO infrastructure. Our product and service billings for each of the second half of fiscal 2007 and the first half of fiscal 2008 were less than our product and service billings for the first half of fiscal 2007. Our product and service billings for the second half of fiscal 2008 were greater than they were for the first half of fiscal 2008. We believe that several large operators completed their initial deployments of Rev A software in the first half of fiscal 2007 and then moderated their deployments over the remainder of the year. We believe that several large operators began their capacity deployments in the second half of 2008. The staged deployments of wireless infrastructure equipment by customers of both our existing and new OEMs are likely to continue to cause significant volatility in our quarterly operating results. If demand for mobile broadband services does not grow as quickly as we anticipate, or develops in a manner that we do not anticipate, our revenue and billings may decline or fail to grow, which would adversely affect our operating results. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, all of our revenue and billings from sales of mobile broadband infrastructure products. We expect demand for mobile broadband services to be the primary driver for growth and expansion of EV-DO networks. The market for mobile broadband services is relatively new and still evolving, and it is uncertain whether these services will achieve and sustain high levels of demand and market acceptance. The level of demand and continued market acceptance for these services may be adversely affected by factors that limit or interrupt the supply of mobile phones designed for EV-DO networks. For example, an order, currently under appeal, that was issued in 2007 by the United States International Trade Commission in a patent dispute between Broadcom 22 Table of Contents Corporation and Qualcomm, which bars importation into the United States of some Qualcomm chips that are used in EV-DO mobile phones may have the effect of hampering demand for mobile broadband services. In addition, the unavailability of EV-DO versions of popular mobile devices, such as the Apple i-Phone that only work on UMTS technology, could hamper the expansion of EV-DO networks. Another expected driver for the growth of EV-DO networks is VoIP. The migration of voice traffic to EV-DO networks will depend on many factors outside of our control. If the demand for VoIP and other mobile broadband services does not grow, or grows more slowly than expected, the need for our EV-DO products would be diminished and our operating results would be significantly harmed. Deployments of our EV-DO products by two large U.S. wireless operators account for a substantial majority of our revenue and billings, and a decision by these operators to reduce their use of our products would harm our business and operating results. A substantial portion of our cumulative billings for fiscal 2006, 2007 and 2008 are attributable to sales of our EV-DO products by Nortel Networks to two large wireless operators in North America. Our sales of EV-DO products currently depend to a significant extent on the rate at which these operators expand and upgrade their CDMA networks. Our business and operating results would be harmed if either of these operators were to select a wireless network solution offered by a competitor or for any other reason were to discontinue or reduce the use of our products or product upgrades in their networks. If the market for our FMC products does not develop as we expect, or our FMC products do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our business will suffer. We are investing significantly in the development of both our EV-DO based and UMTS based FMC products so that operators may offer mobile broadband services using wireline broadband connections and a combination of mobile and Wi-Fi networks. We do not expect to have meaningful sales of our FMC products until at least the second half of 2009, depending on operators’ deployment plans. However, it is possible that the market for our FMC products will not develop as we expect. Even if a market for our FMC products develops, it is uncertain whether our FMC products will achieve and sustain high levels of demand, market acceptance and profitability. Our ability to sell our FMC products will depend, in part, on factors outside our control, such as the commercial availability and market acceptance of mobile phones designed to support FMC applications and the market acceptance of femtocell access point products. The market for our FMC products may be smaller than we expect, the market may develop more slowly than we expect or our competitors may develop alternative technologies that are more attractive to operators. Our FMC products are an important component of our growth and diversification strategy and, therefore, if we are unable to successfully execute on this strategy, our sales, billings and revenues could decrease and our operating results could be harmed. Our future sales will depend on our success in generating sales to a limited number of OEM customers, and any failure to do so would have a significant detrimental effect on our business. There are a limited number of OEMs that offer EV-DO solutions, several of which have developed their own EV-DO technology internally and, therefore, do not require solutions from us. We currently have agreements with two OEM customers. We do not expect to commence significant sales to one of these OEM customers in the immediate future because the markets for the products that we are developing for this customer are still developing. The market for our FMC products is still developing. We currently have three agreements with OEM customers to deliver our UMTS femtocell product solutions and three agreements with OEM customers to deliver our CDMA femtocell product solutions, but have not yet had any significant sales to these customers. Our operating results for the foreseeable future will depend to a significant extent on our ability to effect sales to our existing CDMA and UMTS OEM customers and to establish new OEM relationships. Our OEM customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating pricing and other contractual terms with us. In addition, further consolidation in the communications equipment market could adversely affect our OEM customer relationships. If we fail to generate significant product and service billings through our existing OEM relationships or if we fail to establish significant new OEM relationships, we will not be able to achieve our anticipated level of sales and our results of operations will suffer. 23 Table of Contents The unpredictability of our future results may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period, and we expect them to continue to vary significantly from period to period for the foreseeable future due to a number of factors in addition to the unpredictable purchasing patterns of operators. The following factors, among others, can contribute to the unpredictability of our operating results: • the effect of our OEM business model or changes to this model on our revenue recognition; • the timing of agreements or commitments with our OEM customers for new products or software upgrades; • the timing of our delivery of software upgrades; • the timing of our delivery of maintenance and support sold with products; • the ability of our customers to pay amounts owed to us as they become due (or in the case of Nortel Networks, when they would have become due, but for their filing for bankruptcy); • the unpredictable deployment and purchasing patterns of operators; • fluctuations in demand for products of our OEM customers that are sold together with our products, and the timing and size of orders for such products of our OEM customers; • new product introductions and enhancements by our competitors and us; • the timing and acceptance of software upgrades sold by our OEM customers to their installed base of operators; • changes in our pricing policies or the pricing policies of our competitors; • our ability to develop, introduce and deploy new products and product upgrades that meet customer requirements in a timely manner; • adjustments in the reporting of royalties and product sales by our OEM customers resulting from reviews and audits of such reports; • our and our OEM customers’ ability to obtain sufficient supplies of limited source components or materials; • our and our OEM customers’ ability to attain and maintain production volumes and quality levels for our products; and • general economic conditions, as well as those specific to the communications, networking, wireless and related industries. Our operating expenses are largely based on our anticipated organizational and product and service billings growth, especially as we continue to invest significant resources in the development of future products and expand our international presence. Most of our expenses, such as employee compensation, are relatively fixed in the short term. As a result, any shortfall in product and service billings in relation to our expectations could cause significant changes in our operating results from period to period and could result in negative cash flow from operations. We believe that comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. You should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. It is likely that in some future periods, our revenue, product and service billings, earnings, cash from operations or other operating results will be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the price of our common stock may decrease substantially. We may not be able to achieve profitability for any period in the future or sustain cash flow from operating activities. We began to recognize revenue in fiscal 2002, began to have positive cash flow from operating activities in fiscal 2004 and achieved profitability in fiscal 2006. We have only a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business, including our ability to continue to grow our revenue and billings and to sustain cash flow from operating activities and profitability. The amount and percentage of our operating expenses that are fixed expenses have increased as 24 Table of Contents we have grown our business. As we continue to expand and develop our business, we will need to generate significant billings to maintain positive cash flow from operating activities, and we might not sustain positive cash flow from operating activities for any substantial period of time. We do not expect to achieve profitability for any fiscal year unless we are able to recognize significant revenue from our OEM arrangements in that fiscal year. If we are unable to increase our billings and sustain cash flow from operating activities, the market price of our common stock will likely fall. On January 14, 2009, Nortel Networks announced that it and certain of its affiliates had filed for bankruptcy protection. At the time of that filing, we had $21.8 million of outstanding invoices to Nortel Networks and approximately $12 million to $13 million of unbilled amounts related to royalties earned through January 13, 2009. The collection of these amounts is subject to Nortel Networks’ bankruptcy proceedings and it is likely that a portion or all of these amounts will not be collected. Had Nortel Networks not filed for bankruptcy protection, these amounts would likely have been paid in due course in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Our cash flows for the first quarter of 2009 will be negatively impacted by $34 million to $35 million, representing the total billed and unbilled amounts due from Nortel Networks at the time of the filing. Claims by other parties that we infringe their proprietary technology could force us to redesign our products or to incur significant costs. Many companies in the wireless industry have significant patent portfolios. These companies and other parties may claim that our products infringe their proprietary rights. We may become involved in litigation as a result of allegations that we infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Any party asserting that our products infringe their proprietary rights would force us to defend ourselves, and possibly our customers, against the alleged infringement. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and invalidation of our proprietary rights. We also could be forced to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the challenged intellectual property; • obtain from the owner of the infringed intellectual property right a license to sell or use the relevant technology, which license may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all; • redesign those products that use any allegedly infringing technology, which may be costly and time-consuming; or • refund deposits and other amounts received for allegedly infringing technology or products. For example, in 2006, we received a letter from Wi-LAN Inc. asserting that some of our EV-DO products infringe two issued United States patents and an issued Canadian patent relating to wireless communication technologies. A majority of our revenue to date has been derived from the allegedly infringing EV-DO products. We have evaluated various matters relating to Wi-LAN’s assertion and we do not believe that such products infringe any valid claim of the patents identified by Wi-LAN in that letter. In November 2007, we received an additional letter from Wi-LAN asserting that some of our other products infringe one of the previously identified United States patents and that the products identified in the first letter and some of our other products infringe two other United States patents. We have evaluated Wi-LAN’s claims related to the products and patents identified in its November 2007 letter and we do not believe that our products infringe any valid claim of the patents identified by Wi-LAN in that letter. Under certain circumstances we may seek to obtain a license to use the relevant technology from Wi-LAN. We cannot be certain that Wi-LAN would provide such a license or, if provided, what its economic terms would be. If we were to seek to obtain such a license, and such license were available from Wi-LAN, we could be required to make significant payments with respect to past and/or future sales of our products, and such payments may adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If Wi-LAN determines to pursue claims against us for patent infringement, we might not be able to successfully defend against such claims. Intellectual property litigation can be costly. Even if we prevail, the cost of such litigation could deplete our financial resources. Litigation is also time consuming and could divert management’s attention and resources away from our business. Furthermore, during the course of litigation, confidential information may be disclosed in the form of documents or testimony in connection with discovery requests, depositions or trial testimony. Disclosure of our confidential information and our involvement in intellectual property litigation could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property 25 Table of Contents litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. In addition, any uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could significantly limit our ability to continue our operations. If we are not successful in obtaining from third parties licenses to intellectual property that are required for GSM/UMTS products that we are developing, we may not be able to expand our business as expected and our business may suffer. The GSM/UMTS markets are characterized by the presence of many patents held by third parties. We will need to obtain licenses from third parties for intellectual property associated with our development of GSM/UMTS products. Any required license might not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we succeed in obtaining these licenses, but the payments under these licenses are higher than we anticipate, our costs for these products would increase and our operating results would suffer. If we failed to obtain a required license, our ability to develop GSM/UMTS products would be impaired, we may not be able to expand our business as expected and our business may suffer. If we do not timely deliver new and enhanced products that respond to customer requirements and technological changes, operators may not buy our products and our revenue and product and service billings may decline significantly. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and evolving industry standards. To achieve market acceptance for our products, we must effectively anticipate operator requirements, and we must offer products that meet changing operator demands in a timely manner. Operators may require product features and capabilities that our current products do not have. If we fail to develop products that satisfy operator requirements, our ability to create or increase demand for our products will be harmed. In developing our wireless infrastructure products, we seek to identify the long-term trends of wireless operators and their customers. The development cycle for our products and technologies can take multiple years. The ultimate success of our new products depends, in large part, on the accuracy of our assessments of the long-term needs of the industry, and it is difficult to change quickly the design or function of a planned new product if the market need does not develop as we anticipate. We may experience difficulties with software development, industry standards, hardware design, manufacturing or marketing that could delay or prevent our development, introduction or implementation of new products and enhancements. The introduction of new products by competitors, including some of our OEM customers, the emergence of new industry standards or the development of entirely new technologies that replace existing product offerings could render our existing or future products obsolete. If our products become technologically obsolete, operators may purchase solutions offered by our competitors and our ability to generate revenue and product and service billings may be impaired. Our revenue and product and service billings growth will be limited if our OEM customers are unable to continue to sell our products to large wireless operators or if we have to discount our products to support the selling efforts of our OEM customers. Our future success depends in part on the ability of our OEM customers to sell our products to large wireless operators operating complex networks that serve large numbers of subscribers and transport high volumes of traffic. Our OEM customers operate in a highly competitive environment and may need to reduce the prices they charge for our products in order to maintain or expand their market share. We may reduce the prices we charge our OEM customers for our products in order to support their selling efforts. If our OEM customers incur shortfalls in their sales of mobile broadband solutions to their existing customers or fail to expand their customer base to include additional operators that deploy our products in large-scale networks serving significant numbers of subscribers or if we reduce the prices we charge our OEM customers for our products, our operating results will suffer. 26 Table of Contents We depend on sole sources for certain components of our products and our business would be harmed if the supply from our sole sources were disrupted. We depend on sole sources for certain components of our products and also rely on contract manufacturers for the production of our hardware products. We have not entered into long-term agreements with any of our suppliers. We depend on several software vendors for the operating system and other capabilities used in our products. In addition, we and one of our OEM customers purchase from Qualcomm the cell site modem chips used in any base station and base station channel cards. If these cell site modem chips were to become unavailable to us or to our OEM customers, it would take us a significant period of time to develop alternative solutions and it is likely that our operating results would be significantly harmed. The market for network infrastructure products is highly competitive and continually evolving, and if we are not able to compete effectively, we may not be able to continue to expand our business as expected and our business may suffer. The market for network infrastructure products is highly competitive and rapidly evolving. The market is subject to changing technology trends, shifting customer needs and expectations and frequent introduction of new products. We expect competition to persist and intensify in the future as the market for network infrastructure products grows and new and existing competitors devote considerable resources to introducing and enhancing products. For our EV-DO products, we face competition from several of the world’s largest telecommunications equipment providers that provide either a directly competitive product or a product based on alternative technologies, including Alcatel-Lucent, Hitachi, Huawei, LG-Nortel and Samsung. In our sales to OEM customers, we face the competitive risk that OEMs might seek to develop internally alternative solutions to those currently purchased from us. Additionally, our OEM customers might elect to purchase technology from our competitors. For our FMC products, our competition includes several public companies, including Cisco and Ericsson, as well as several private companies such as Huawei. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and may be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, many of our competitors have more extensive customer relationships than we do, and, therefore, our competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to new technologies and may be able to market or sell their products more effectively. Moreover, further consolidation in the communications equipment market could adversely affect our OEM customer relationships and competitive position. Our products may not continue to compete favorably. We may not be successful in the face of increasing competition from new products and enhancements introduced by existing competitors or new companies entering the markets in which we provide products. As a result, we may experience price reductions for our products, order cancellations and increased expenses. Accordingly, our business may not grow as expected and our business may suffer. Our agreement with our largest OEM customer, Nortel Networks, provides Nortel Networks with an option to license some of our intellectual property to develop internally products competitive with the products it currently purchases from us. Under our OEM agreement with Nortel Networks, Nortel Networks has the option to purchase from us the specification for communications among base stations, radio network controllers and network management systems. The specification would enable Nortel Networks to develop EV-DO software to work with the base station channel card software licensed from us and deployed in the networks of its wireless operator customers. If Nortel Networks elects to exercise this option, Nortel Networks will pay us a fixed fee as well as a significant royalty on sales of current and future products that incorporate this specification. The royalty rate varies with annual volume but represents a portion of the license fees we currently receive from our sales to Nortel Networks. If Nortel Networks were to exercise the option, Nortel Networks would receive the current interface specification at the time of option exercise, updated with an upgrade then under development, plus one additional upgrade subject to a development agreement within a limited time after the option exercise for an additional fee. If Nortel Networks 27 Table of Contents were in the future to develop its own EV-DO software, it could, by exercising this option, enable its own software to communicate with the base station channel cards currently installed in its customers’ networks. Adverse conditions in the global economy and disruption of financial and credit markets could negatively affect our customers’, and therefore our performance. A prolonged economic downturn in the business or geographic areas in which we sell our products could reduce demand for our products and result in a decline in our revenue and billings. Volatility and disruption of financial and credit markets could limit customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations and invest in network infrastructure and therefore also could reduce demand for our products and result in a decline in our revenues and billings. In addition, during economic downturns, customers may slow the rate at which they pay their vendors or become unable to pay their debts as they become due. If any of our significant customers do not pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or becomes unable to pay such amounts to us at a time when we have substantial amounts receivable from such customers, our cash flow and results of operations may suffer. At the time they filed for bankruptcy protection, Nortel Networks had outstanding invoices to us of $21.8 million and approximately $12 million to $13 million of unbilled amounts which are now subject to the bankruptcy process. We will not be able to collect on these invoices when they otherwise would have been due, and we may be unable to collect them in full, or at all. Additionally, disruptions of the credit markets and any limitations on the availability of credit to our customers could impact their ability to invest in network infrastructure and purchase our products. Because our business depends on the continued strength of the communications industry, our operating results will suffer if that industry experiences an economic downturn. We derive most of our revenue and billings from purchases of our products by customers in the communications industry. Our future success depends upon the continued demand from wireless operators for communications equipment. The communications industry is cyclical and reactive to general economic conditions. In the recent past, worldwide economic downturns, pricing pressures, mergers and deregulation have led to consolidations and reorganizations. These downturns, pricing pressures and restructurings have caused delays and reductions in capital and operating expenditures by many wireless operators. These delays and reductions, in turn, have reduced demand for communications products such as ours. A continuation or recurrence of these industry patterns, as well as general domestic and foreign economic conditions and other factors that reduce spending by companies in the communications industry, could harm our operating results in the future. The success of our business could be jeopardized if we are unable to protect our intellectual property adequately. Our success depends to a degree upon the protection of our software, hardware designs and other proprietary technology. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and confidentiality provisions in agreements with employees, contract manufacturers, consultants, customers and other third parties to protect our intellectual property rights. Other parties may not comply with the terms of their agreements with us, and we may not be able to enforce our rights adequately against these parties. In addition, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. If competitors are able to use our technology, our ability to compete effectively could be harmed. For example, if a competitor were to gain use of certain of our proprietary technology, it might be able to develop and manufacture similarly designed and equipped mobile broadband solutions at a reduced cost, which could result in a decrease in demand for our products. Furthermore, we have adopted a strategy of seeking limited patent protection both in the United States and in foreign countries with respect to the technologies used in or relating to our products. We do not know whether any of our pending patent applications will result in the issuance of patents or whether the examination process will require us to narrow our claims, and even if patents are issued, they may be contested, 28 Table of Contents circumvented or invalidated over the course of our business. Moreover, the rights granted under any issued patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages, and, as with any technology, competitors may be able to develop and obtain patents for technologies that are similar to or superior to our technologies. If that happens, we may need to license these technologies and we may not be able to obtain licenses on reasonable terms, if at all, thereby causing great harm to our business. In addition, if we resort to legal proceedings to enforce our intellectual property rights, the proceedings could become burdensome and expensive, even if we were to prevail. We may engage in future acquisitions that could disrupt our business, cause dilution to our stockholders and harm our financial condition and operating results. We intend to pursue acquisitions of companies or assets in order to enhance our market position or expand our product portfolio. We may not be able to find suitable acquisition candidates and we may not be able to complete acquisitions on favorable terms, if at all. If we do complete acquisitions, we cannot be sure that they will ultimately strengthen our competitive position or that they will not be viewed negatively by customers, securities analysts or investors. In addition, any acquisitions that we make could lead to difficulties in integrating personnel and operations from the acquired businesses and in retaining and motivating key personnel from those businesses. Acquisitions may disrupt our ongoing operations, divert management from day-to-day responsibilities, increase our expenses and harm our operating results or financial condition. Future acquisitions may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses and could result in an increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards or the application of new standards could adversely affect our operating results. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, or AICPA, the SEC and various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in these principles or interpretations could have a significant effect on our reported financial results, and they could affect the reporting of transactions completed before the announcement of a change. For example, we recognize substantially all of our revenue in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition , or SOP No. 97-2. The AICPA and its Software Revenue Recognition Task Force continue to issue interpretations and guidance for applying the relevant accounting standards to a wide range of sales contract terms and business arrangements that are prevalent in software licensing arrangements and arrangements for the sale of hardware products that contain more than an insignificant amount of software. We collaborate with our OEM customers to develop and negotiate pricing for specific features for future product releases and specified software upgrades. Because we do not sell the same products and upgrades to more than one customer, we are unable to establish fair value for these products and upgrades. As a result, under SOP No. 97-2, we are required to defer most of our revenue from sales to our OEM customers until after we ship specified upgrades that were committed to the OEM customer at the time of sale. Future interpretations of existing accounting standards, including SOP No. 97-2, or changes in our business practices could result in future changes in our revenue recognition accounting policies that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In August 2008, the SEC decided to seek public comments on the potential mandatory adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS, by all U.S. issuers. The proposed roadmap targets potential mandatory adoption of IFRS in the U.S. beginning in 2014, but lays out several milestones that would need to be achieved prior to the SEC mandating use of IFRS for all U.S. issuers. The proposed rule would allow certain qualifying domestic issuers to use IFRS as early as fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2009. Should we be required to adopt IFRS, our operating results for past, current, or future periods may be adversely affected. We have not yet assessed the impact of potentially applying IFRS. In December 2008, the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board issued a discussion paper which detailed their preliminary views on a single, assets-and liabilities-based revenue recognition model that they believe will improve financial reporting. If and when a new revenue recognition model is finalized, it may change 29 Table of Contents the way in which we recognize and record revenue and could adversely affect our operating results in current or future periods. We have not yet assessed the impact of this preliminary revenue recognition model. The loss of key personnel or an inability to attract and retain additional personnel may impair our ability to grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical and sales personnel, including our President and Chief Executive Officer, Chief Technical Officer, and Vice President, Femto Business and Corporate Development. None of these officers is a party to an employment agreement with us, and any of them therefore may terminate employment with us at any time with no advance notice. The replacement of these officers likely would involve significant time and costs, and the loss of these officers may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, software and manufacturing companies. For example, our competitors may be able to attract and retain a more qualified engineering team by offering more competitive compensation packages. If we are unable to attract new engineers and retain our current engineers, we may not be able to develop and service our products at the same levels as our competitors and we may, therefore, lose potential customers and sales penetration in certain markets. Our failure to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our business plan and, as a result, our ability to compete effectively in the mobile broadband solutions market could decrease, our operating results could suffer and our revenues could decrease. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant increased costs as a result of operating as a public company as compared with our history as a private company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to public company compliance initiatives. If we are unable to absorb these increased costs or maintain management focus on development and sales of our product offerings and services, we may not be able to achieve our business plan. As a public company, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the NASDAQ Stock Market, have imposed a variety of requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel have and will continue to devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have increased our legal and financial compliance costs and have made some activities more time-consuming and costly. For example, we believe these new rules and regulations have made it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. We are exposed to potential risks and will continue to incur significant costs as a result of the internal control testing and evaluation process mandated by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 28, 2008 and assessed all deficiencies on both an individual basis and in combination to determine if, when aggregated, they constitute a material weakness. As a result of this evaluation, no material weaknesses were identified. We expect to continue to incur significant costs, including increased accounting fees and increased staffing levels, in order to maintain compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We continue to monitor our controls for any weaknesses or deficiencies. No evaluation can provide complete assurance that our internal controls will detect or uncover all failures of persons within our company to disclose material information otherwise required to be reported. The effectiveness of our controls and procedures could also be limited by simple errors or faulty judgments. In addition, as we continue to expand globally, the challenges involved in implementing appropriate internal controls will increase and will require that we continue to improve our internal controls over financial reporting. In the future, if we fail to complete our Sarbanes-Oxley 404 evaluation in a timely manner, or if our independent registered public accounting firm cannot attest in a timely manner to our evaluation, we could be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls which could adversely impact 30 Table of Contents the market price of our common stock. We or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting which may result in a loss of public confidence in our internal controls and adversely impact the market price of our common stock. In addition, any failure to implement required, new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. If we are unable to manage our growth and expand our operations successfully, our business and operating results will be harmed and our reputation may be damaged. We anticipate that further expansion of our infrastructure and headcount may be required to achieve planned expansion of our product offerings and planned increases in our customer base. Our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies, and reporting systems and procedures. We may not be able to implement improvements to our management information and control systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. If we are unable to manage future expansion, our ability to provide high quality products and services could be harmed, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may need additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us, and if it is available, may dilute our existing stockholders’ ownership of our common stock. We may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings in order to: • fund ongoing operations; • take advantage of opportunities, including more rapid expansion of our business or the acquisition of complementary products, technologies or businesses; • develop new products; or • respond to competitive pressures. Any additional capital raised through the sale of equity may dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership of our common stock. Capital raised through debt financing would require us to make periodic interest payments and may impose potentially restrictive covenants on the conduct of our business. Furthermore, additional financings may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all, particularly in the current economic environment. A failure to obtain additional funding could prevent us from making expenditures that may be required to grow or maintain our operations. Our ability to sell our products depends in part on the quality of our support and services offerings, and our failure to offer high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our sales and operating results. Once our products are deployed within an operator’s network, the operator and our OEM customer depend on our support organization to resolve issues relating to our products. A high level of support is critical for the successful marketing and sale of our products. If we do not effectively assist operators in deploying our products, succeed in helping operators quickly resolve post-deployment issues, and provide effective ongoing support it would adversely affect our ability to sell our products. As a result, our failure to maintain high quality support and services would have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. Our products are highly technical and may contain undetected software or hardware errors, which could cause harm to our reputation and adversely affect our business. Our products are highly technical and complex and are critical to the operation of many networks. Our products have contained and are expected to continue to contain one or more undetected errors, defects or security vulnerabilities. Some errors in our products may only be discovered after a product has been installed and used by 31 Table of Contents an operator. For example, we have encountered errors in our software products that have caused operators using our products to experience a temporary loss of certain network services. Any errors, defects or security vulnerabilities discovered in our products after commercial release could result in loss of revenue or delay in revenue recognition, loss of customers and increased service and warranty cost, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we could face claims for product liability, tort or breach of warranty, including claims related to changes to our products made by our OEM customers. Our contracts for the sale of our products contain provisions relating to warranty disclaimers and liability limitations, which in certain cases may not be upheld. Defending a lawsuit, regardless of its merit, is costly and may divert management’s attention and adversely affect the market’s perception of us and our products. In addition, if our business liability insurance coverage proves inadequate or future coverage is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, our financial condition could be harmed. Our international operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. We have sales personnel in seven countries worldwide, nearly 160 engineers and support staff in Bangalore, India and approximately 45 engineers and support staff in Cambridge, United Kingdom. We expect to continue to add personnel in foreign countries, especially at our Bangalore, India and Cambridge, United Kingdom facilities. Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks, including: • the difficulty of managing and staffing foreign offices and the increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with multiple international locations; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivable and longer payment cycles, especially in emerging markets; • the need to localize our products and licensing programs for international customers; • tariffs and trade barriers and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell or develop our products in certain foreign markets; • increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk; and • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international operations. Our foreign operations incur expenses in local currencies. Because we incur a substantial portion of our operating expenses in India and the United Kingdom, we are subject to currency exchange risks between the U.S. Dollar on the one hand, and the Indian Rupee and British Pound, on the other. We may derive some of our future revenue from customers in foreign countries that pay for our products in the form of their local currency, which also would subject us to currency exchange risks. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international operations and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If wireless devices pose safety risks, we may be subject to new regulations, and demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers may decrease. Concerns over the effects of radio frequency emissions, even if unfounded, may have the effect of discouraging the use of wireless devices, which would decrease demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers. In recent years, the FCC and foreign regulatory agencies have updated the guidelines and methods they use for evaluating radio frequency emissions from radio equipment, including wireless phones and other wireless devices. In addition, interest groups have requested that the FCC investigate claims that wireless communications technologies pose health concerns and cause interference with airbags, hearing aids and other medical devices. Concerns have also been expressed over the possibility of safety risks due to a lack of attention associated with the use of wireless devices while driving. Any legislation that may be adopted in response to these expressions of concern could reduce demand for our products and those of our licensees and customers in the United States as well as foreign countries. 32 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Common Stock The market price of our common stock may be volatile. Our common stock has a limited trading history. The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. Some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: • fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; • fluctuations in our revenue as a result of our revenue recognition policy, even during periods of significant sales activity; • changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; • failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; • any adverse change in our relationship with Nortel Networks, including as a result of Nortel Networks’ bankruptcy filing; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • success of competitive products; • changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of debt; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; • regulatory developments in the United States, foreign countries or both; • litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; • additions or departures of key personnel; • general perception of the future of CDMA technology; • investors’ general perception of us; and • changes in general economic, industry and market conditions. In addition, if the market for technology stocks or the stock market in general experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. If any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to class action lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. If equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. The trading market for our common stock will rely in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. We do not control these analysts. The price of our stock could decline if one or more equity analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. A significant portion of our total outstanding shares may be sold into the public market in the near future, which could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders might sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. 33 Table of Contents The holders of a majority of our common stock have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file registration statements under the Securities Act or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file in the future for ourselves or other stockholders. If we register their shares of common stock, they could sell those shares in the public market. Our directors and management will exercise significant control over our company. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates beneficially owned a majority of our outstanding common stock as of December 28, 2008. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws or Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws or Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • limitations on the removal of directors; • a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and • the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, likely preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, the ability to achieve a return on an investment in our common stock will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. Although we paid a special cash dividend on our capital stock in April 2007, we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on shares of common stock for the foreseeable future. 34 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 