Risk Factors” and Item 4. “Information on the Company—Business of Prudential” for additional discussion of factors that may impact Prudential’s results of operations. General economic and market conditions Prudential’s results of operations are impacted by general economic and market conditions and are sensitive to the pace of and extent of changes in equity markets and interest rates, as well as the changes in behaviour of individuals and institutions that these changes in economic and market conditions may cause. Particular features of relevance to the Prudential’s geographic areas of operations are shown below: Asia Asia (excluding Japan) is leading the world in terms of GDP growth. Over the next five years it is expected to generate US$5.5 trillion(25) of new Gross Domestic Product (GDP), more than the US and the other advanced economies combined. Economic growth is translating into the rapid increase of the Asian middle class. Between 2009 and 2020 it is estimated that there will be over 1.2 billion people who will have been elevated from rural subsistence to urban lifestyles. Families are getting smaller, life expectancies are lengthening and the incidence of chronic diseases is increasing significantly. As people move into the middle class, their increased wealth and higher income provide the opportunity to make financial plans. Typically the first stage is to provide protection for the family and establish a regular savings plan through a life insurance policy. Social welfare provisions vary by market but generally fall well below the levels people need to sustain their lifestyles in the event of a personal tragedy such as the diagnosis of a critical illness. Also, while basic medical services may be provided by the state, there can be a high level of out of pocket expenses, creating demand for financial solutions to significantly improve an individual’s experience through access to private medical services. Therefore, critical illness and medical riders are popular additions to life insurance policies. Traditionally Asians would have relied on their children to provide for them in their retirement, but increasingly people are making their own financial provisions and life insurance policies are a popular part of a retirement plan. Once the savings and protection solutions are in place there is the opportunity to invest. Single premium insurance policies are also important in more developed markets and it is also likely that customers will increasingly seek access to different asset classes through mutual funds as their wealth grows and financial needs become more sophisticated. United States The United States is the world’s largest retirement savings market with total assets in the annuity sector of over $2.5 trillion(26). Each year, many of the 77 million ‘baby-boomers’ reach retirement age, which is triggering a (25) Prudential estimates based on IMF data—October 2013 (26) According to LIMRA, US Individual Annuities Survey Participants report Q3 2013 134 Table of Contents shift from savings accumulation to retirement income generation of more than US$10 trillion(27) of accumulated wealth over the next decade. This demographic transition constitutes a significant opportunity for those companies that are able to provide the ‘baby-boomers’ with long-term retirement solutions. In 2013, the US economy began to see early signs of improvements, with unemployment rates steadily decreasing, and the housing market continuing to show signs of recovery. Reflecting this, S&P 500 Index rose 30 per cent, its best performance since a 31 per cent jump in 1997, and longer-dated Treasury yields also began to climb in 2013 ahead of the reduction in the Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program. While interest rates remained well below historical averages at year-end, an upward move in Treasury yields, if sustained, would be beneficial to the financial performance of the US insurance industry. We continue to see significant shifts in market share amongst the larger annuity participants. Jackson’s market share of annuities with living benefits has remained relatively steady, while some larger players have consciously pulled back, and others are now re-entering the market. We have also seen a general trend of product changes in this market that have reduced investment flexibility and/or increased fees for optional benefits. Several insurers with challenging legacy blocks of variable annuity business continue to implement policy changes to help mitigate the risk of their back book of business, including fee increases on older benefits, changes to the availability of investment options, subsequent premium restrictions on in force contracts and buy back offers to their existing policyholders. Despite positive demographic trends, these activities have the potential to lead to overall contraction in the industry, and likely further market share adjustments, as customers and distributors seek insurers that offer consistency, stability and financial strength. Spread-based products written by Jackson are principally for fixed interest rate annuities. Sales of life business, including interest sensitive life products, were discontinued in the second half of 2012. Jackson also writes fixed index annuities and institutional business that are spread-based products. The spread is the difference between the rate of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the contract holder liabilities and the amounts that are credited to contract holders in the form of benefit increases, subject to minimum crediting rates. In general, Jackson’s results are significantly affected by fluctuations in economic and market conditions, especially interest rates, credit conditions and equity markets. The profitability of Jackson’s spread-based business depends in large part on its ability to manage interest rate exposure, as well as the credit and other risks inherent in its investment portfolio. Jackson designs its US products and manages the investments and liabilities to reduce overall interest rate sensitivity. This has the effect of moderating the impact on Prudential’s results of changes in prevailing interest rates. Jackson’s exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to the market price and cash flow variability associated with changes in interest rates. Changes in interest rates, either upward or downward, including changes in the difference between the levels of prevailing short-term and long-term rates, can expose Jackson to the risk of not earning anticipated spreads. For example, if interest rates increase and/or competitors offer higher crediting rates, withdrawals on annuity contracts may increase as contract holders seek higher investment returns elsewhere. In response, Jackson could (i) raise its crediting rates to stem withdrawals, decreasing its spread; (ii) sell assets which may have depressed values in a high interest rate environment to fund policyholder payments, creating realised investment losses; or (iii) pay out from existing cash which would otherwise have been invested and earned interest at the higher interest rates. Conversely, if interest rates decrease, withdrawals from annuity contracts may decrease relative to original expectations, creating more cash than expected to be invested at lower rates. Jackson may have the ability to lower the rates it credits to contract holders as a result, but may be forced to maintain crediting rates for competitive reasons or because there are minimum interest rate guarantees in certain contracts. In either case, the spread earned by Jackson would be compressed. (27) Source: US Census Bureau 135 Table of Contents The majority of assets backing the spread-based business are invested in fixed income securities. Jackson actively manages its investment and derivative portfolio, considering a variety of factors, including the relationship between the expected duration of its assets and its liabilities. Recent periods have been characterised by low interest rates. The current low interest rate environment is likely to be prolonged. A prolonged low interest rate environment may result in a lengthening of maturities of the contract holder liabilities from initial estimates, primarily due to lower policy lapses. As interest rates remain at low levels, Jackson may also have to reinvest the cash it receives as interest or proceeds from investments that have matured or that have been sold at lower yields, reducing its investment margins. Moreover, borrowers may prepay or redeem the securities in its investment portfolio with greater frequency in order to borrow at lower market rates, which exacerbates this risk. The majority of Jackson’s fixed interest rate annuities and life products were designed with contractual provisions that allow crediting rates to be re-set annually subject to minimum crediting rate guarantees. Therefore, on new business written, as well as on in-force business above minimum guarantees, Jackson has adjusted, and will continue to adjust, crediting rates in order to maintain targeted interest rate spreads. Lowering crediting rates helps to mitigate the effect of spread compression but the spreads could still decline as Jackson is typically only entitled to reset the crediting rates at limited pre-established intervals and the re-setting is subject to the guaranteed minimum rates. As at 31 December 2013, approximately 87 per cent of Jackson’s fixed interest rate annuities and interest-sensitive life business account values correspond to crediting rates that are at the minimum guaranteed interest rates (2012: 87 per cent). Tabular disclosures are provided in note C4.2(b) to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18 on the distribution of the account values of these businesses within the range of their contractual minimum guaranteed interest rates. The tables demonstrate that approximately 71 per cent (2012: 70 per cent) of Jackson’s combined fixed interest rate annuities and interest sensitive life business account values of £20 billion (2012: £20 billion) have contractual minimum rates of 3 per cent or less. Jackson’s expectation for future spreads is also an important component in the amortisation of deferred acquisition costs. Significantly lower spreads may cause it to accelerate amortisation, thereby reducing total IFRS profit in the affected reporting period. Low market interest rates could also reduce Jackson’s return on investments that are held to support the company’s capital. In addition, changes in interest rates will affect the net unrealised gain or loss position of Jackson’s available-for-sale fixed income securities which is reported as a component of other comprehensive income. Further information on the factors affecting the pricing of products and asset liability management of Jackson is provided in Item 4. ‘Information on the Company—Business of Prudential—US Business’. In addition to the impact on Jackson’s spread product profitability, a prolonged period during which interest rates remain at levels lower than those anticipated in its pricing may also result in greater costs associated with certain of Jackson’s product features which guarantee benefits and higher costs for derivative instruments used to hedge certain of its product risks. Reflecting these impacts in recoverability and loss recognition testing under U.S. GAAP as ‘grandfathered’ under IFRS may require Jackson to accelerate the amortisation of DAC as noted above, as well as to increase required reserves for future contract holder benefits. In addition, certain statutory capital and reserve requirements are based on formulas or models that consider interest rates, and a prolonged period of low interest rates may increase the statutory capital Jackson is required to hold as well as the amount of assets it must maintain to support statutory reserves. Accordingly, without active management, a prolonged low interest rate environment may materially affect Jackson’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. However, Jackson has and continues to proactively adapt its asset-liability management, hedging programme, product design and pricing and crediting rate strategies to mitigate the downward pressures created by the prolonged low interest rate environment. The sensitivity of Jackson’s IFRS basis profit or loss and shareholders’ equity to changes in interest rates is provided in note C7.3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 136 Table of Contents The profitability of Jackson’s fee-based business depends in large part on its ability to manage equity market risk. As the investment return on the separate account assets is attributed directly to the contract holders, Jackson’s profit arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less the expenses incurred, which include the costs of guarantees. In addition to being a profitable book of business in its own right, the variable annuity book also provides an opportunity to utilise the offsetting equity risk among various lines of business to manage Jackson’s equity exposure in a cost-effective fashion. Jackson believes that the internal management of equity risk coupled with the utilisation of external derivative instruments where necessary, continues to provide a cost-effective method of managing equity exposure. Profits in the variable annuity book of business will continue to be subject to the impact of market movements both on sales and allocations to the variable accounts and the effects of the economic hedging program. While Jackson hedges its risk on an economic basis, the nature and duration of the hedging instruments, which are recorded at fair value through the income statement, will fluctuate and produce some accounting volatility. Jackson continues to believe that, on a long-term economic basis, its equity exposure remains well managed. United Kingdom The life and pensions market in the UK is mature and highly regulated. Significant regulatory change occurred in 2012 with the implementation of the conclusions of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), auto-enrolment for company pension schemes and Gender Neutral Pricing. These new regulations represent major changes to the way business is conducted in a number of areas of the markets in which we operate in the UK, and impact not only insurance and investments providers, but also distributors and consumers. It is inevitable that regulatory change of this scale and scope creates a period of uncertainty before the shape of the new long-term competitive landscape becomes evident. The UK market is characterised by an ageing population and a concentration of wealth in the 50+ age group, many of whom have built up substantial pension funds in employer-sponsored schemes and require help to convert their wealth into sustainable lifetime income. In contrast the next generation of savers are typically under-funded as the responsibility for retirement provision has shifted substantially away from government and employers towards the individual. These customers, and helping them accumulate savings, constitutes a significant opportunity for long-term savings and retirement income providers at a time when the ability of the state to intervene is significantly diminished. In the UK we focus on those areas of the market where we are able to bring superior value to our customers and where we enjoy a competitive advantage, primarily in with-profits and annuities. Prudential UK’s longevity experience, multi-asset investment capabilities, long-standing trusted brand and financial strength mean that we are favourably positioned to help consumers translate their accumulated wealth into dependable retirement income through our range of market leading with-profits and annuity products. In the UK, where Prudential’s with-profits fund invests in debt and other fixed income securities, equity securities and real estate, shareholders’ profits under IFRS are strongly related to the bonuses it declares. The most important influences on the bonus rates are the overall rate of return earned on investments and Prudential’s expectation of future investment returns. Further information on with-profits products is provided in Item 5 ‘Basis of Profits’, ‘—With-Profits Products’ and ‘—Bonus Rates’ below. In addition, shareholders’ profits under IFRS are significantly influenced by the contribution from the growing shareholder backed annuity business. The key factors affecting the profitability of this business are described in note C4.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Government policy and regulation Changes in government policy or regulation applying to companies in the financial services and insurance industries in any of the jurisdictions in which Prudential operates, particularly in Asia, the United Kingdom and 137 Table of Contents the United States, may adversely affect the result of its operations. These include possible changes in the tax treatment of financial products and services, government pension arrangements and policies, the regulation of selling practices and solvency standards. These changes may affect Prudential’s existing and future business by, for example, causing customers to cancel existing policies, requiring Prudential to change its range of products and services, redesign its technology or other systems, retrain staff, pay increased tax or incur other costs. In Asia, each market has evolved its own regulatory regime depending on the heritage of the industry, experiences and developmental priorities. Regulators across the region are generally keen to promote the growth of the life insurance industry as they appreciate the social utility of providing financial security to individuals and the way insurers channel unproductive cash savings into long term investments in the economy. However, they are imposing higher standards on the industry and monitoring compliance more actively, with increasing focus on the quality of advice distributors provide and the suitability of the products offered. Although assessments of solvency can vary considerably market by market, there is increasing convergence on risk based calculations. In the US, the financial services industry continues to deal with a multitude of emerging regulatory initiatives in response to the financial crisis. Many of these broader financial services initiatives specifically impact the insurance industry. Within the insurance industry, we are seeing evolving supervisory structures, new global group supervision standards, focus on the reduction of systemic risk, amplified focus on enterprise risk management as well as initiatives in the area of financial reporting. While discussions are clearly still underway across many initiatives, this is resulting in significant resources being expended across the industry. Finding the appropriate path through all of the regulatory changes remains a challenge. The UK life and pensions industry has undergone considerable regulatory and market change in 2013 with the appointment of two new industry regulatory bodies, the phasing in of auto-enrolment for company pensions and the introduction of the ABI Code on Retirement Choices. The implementation of the recommendations of the Retail Distribution Review has changed the distribution landscape and providers, distributors, advisers and their clients continue to adjust to the new environment. The Financial Conduct Authority’s Thematic Review into the UK annuity market, which ran throughout 2013, concluded in February 2014 with the announcement that it was launching a further study to examine competition and choice in the retirement income market as a whole. We continue to support both regulatory and other initiatives to improve consumer experience and outcomes. These new developments represent major changes to the way business is conducted in a number of areas of the markets in which we operate in the UK, and impact not only insurance and investments providers, but also distributors and consumers. Further details on the regulatory supervision which Prudential is subject to in the UK and internationally are provided in Item 4 ‘Information on the Company—Supervision and Regulation’. See also Item 4 ‘Information on the Company—Business of Prudential—UK Business—Prudential UK&Europe business overview’ for information on the 2014 UK Budget announcement. Exchange rates Due to the geographical diversity of Prudential’s businesses, it is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Prudential’s international operations in Asia, the United States and Europe, which represent a significant proportion of total group income and expenses, generally write policies and invest in the same local currency, which although limiting the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, can lead to fluctuations in Prudential’s consolidated financial information upon translation of results into pounds sterling. Please refer to Item 4 ‘Information on the Company—Business of Prudential—Group Risk Framework —Financial Risks—Foreign Exchange Risk’, Item 5 ‘Other results based information—Foreign currency source of IFRS key metrics’ and Notes C7.2, C7.3 and C7.4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18 for additional information on the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on the Group. 138 Table of Contents IFRS Critical Accounting Policies Prudential’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and results of operations are based upon Prudential’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and as endorsed by the EU. EU-endorsed IFRS may differ from IFRS as issued by the IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU. As at 31 December 2013, there were no unendorsed standards effective for the three years ended 31 December 2013 affecting the consolidated financial information of Prudential and there were no differences between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs issued by the IASB in terms of their application to Prudential. Accordingly, Prudential’s financial information for the three years ended 31 December 2013 is prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB. Prudential adopts mandatory requirements of new or altered EU-adopted IFRS standards when required, and may consider earlier adoption where permitted and appropriate in the circumstances. The preparation of these financial statements requires Prudential to make estimates and judgements that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, Prudential evaluates its estimates, including those related to long-term business provisioning and the fair value of assets. Critical accounting policies are defined as those that are reflective of significant judgements and uncertainties, and potentially give rise to different results under different assumptions and conditions. Prudential believes that its critical accounting policies are limited to the policies referenced below which are described further in the notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Critical accounting policies Reference to the disclosurenotes in Item 18 Classification of insurance and investment contracts A3.1(c) Measurement of policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits fund A3.1(d) Measurement and presentation of derivatives and debt securities of US insurance operations A3.1(j)(v) Presentation of results before tax A3.1(k) Segmental analysis of results and earnings distributable to shareholders A3.1(m) The critical accounting policies referenced above are critical for those that relate to the Group’s shareholder-financed business. In particular this applies for Jackson which is the largest shareholder-backed business in the Group. The policies are not critical in respect of the Group’s with-profits business. This distinction reflects the basis of recognition of profit and accounting treatment of unallocated surplus of with-profits funds as a liability, as described elsewhere in these financial statements. In determining the measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities and in preparing financial statements, more generally, estimates and judgements are required. The critical aspects are set out below by reference to and discussed in the following accounting policies and other notes to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions Reference to the disclosurenotes in Item 18 Classification of insurance and investment contracts A3.1(c) Measurement of policyholder liabilities A3.1(d); C4.2 and C7 Measurement of deferred acquisition costs A3.1(f); and C4.2 Determination of fair value of financial investments A3.1(j)(ii) Determining impairment related to financial assets A3.1(j)(iii) Additional quantitative information on the impairment and realised gains/losses recognised on the available-for-sale debt securities of US insurance operations C3.5(d) Additional quantitative information on the movement in the statement of financial position value of the available-for-sale debt securities of US insurance operations and those which are in a gross unrealised loss position. C3.3(b)(ii) 139 Table of Contents Summary Consolidated Results and Basis of Preparation of Analysis The following table shows Prudential’s consolidated total profit for the years indicated. Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Total revenue, net of reinsurance 52,375 54,438 35,492 Total charges, net of reinsurance (50,440 ) (51,456 ) (33,709 ) Share of profits from joint ventures and associates, net of related tax 147 135 76 Profit before tax (being tax attributable to shareholders’ and policyholders’ returns)** 2,082 3,117 1,859 Tax attributable to policyholders’ returns (447 ) (370 ) 7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,635 2,747 1,866 Tax charge (736 ) (954 ) (408 ) Less: tax attributable to policyholders’ returns 447 370 (7 ) Tax charge attributable to shareholders’ returns (289 ) (584 ) (415 ) Profit for the year 1,346 2,163 1,451 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. ** This measure is the formal profit before tax measure under IFRS but it is not the result attributable to shareholders. This is principally because the corporate taxes of the Group include those on the income of consolidated with-profits and unit-linked funds that, through adjustments to benefits, are borne by policyholders. These amounts are required to be included in the tax charge of the Company under IAS 12. Consequently, the profit before all taxes measure (which is determined after deducting the cost of policyholder benefits and movements in the liability for unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits fund after adjusting for taxes borne by policyholders) is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders. See ‘Presentation of results before tax’ under IFRS Critical Accounting Policies section above for further explanation. Under IFRS, the pre-tax GAAP measure of profits is profit before policyholder and shareholder taxes. This measure is not relevant for reflecting pre-tax results attributable to shareholders for two reasons. Firstly, this profit measure represents the aggregate of pre-tax results attributable to shareholders and a pre-tax amount attributable to policyholders. Secondly, the amount is determined after charging the transfer to the liability for unallocated surplus, which in turn is determined in part by policyholder taxes borne by the ring-fenced with-profits funds. It is noted that this circular feature is specific to with-profits funds in the UK, and other similarly structured overseas funds, and should be distinguished from other products, which are referred to as ‘with-profits’ and the general accounting treatment of premium or other policy taxes. Accordingly, Prudential has chosen to explain its consolidated results by reference to profits for the year, reflecting profit after tax. In explaining movements in profit for the year, reference is made to trends in profit before shareholder tax and the shareholder tax charge. The explanations of movement in profit before shareholder tax are shown below by reference to the profit analysis applied for segmental disclosure as shown in note B1 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. This basis is used by management and reported externally to Prudential’s UK, Hong Kong and Singapore shareholders and to the UK, Hong Kong and Singapore financial markets. Separately, in this section, analysis of movements in profits before shareholder tax is provided by nature of revenue and charges. Explanation of Movements in Profits After Tax and Profits Before Shareholder Tax by Reference to the Basis Applied for Segmental Disclosure (a) Group overview Profit for the year after tax for 2013 was £1,346 million compared to £2,163 million for 2012. The decrease primarily reflects the movement in results before tax attributable to shareholders, which decreased from a profit 140 Table of Contents of £2,747 million in 2012 to a profit of £1,635 million in 2013, which was partially offset by an decrease in the tax charge attributable to shareholders from £584 million in 2012 to £289 million in 2013. The decrease in the total profit before tax attributable to shareholders from £2,747 million in 2012 to £1,635 million in 2013 reflects an improvement in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from £2,520 in 2012 to £2,954 in 2013 which was more than offset by a decrease in non-operating items from positive £227 million to negative £1,319 million. The decrease in non-operating items is predominantly due to the adverse change in short-term fluctuations in investment returns from a positive £187 million in 2012 to a negative £1,110 million in 2013. Further, consistent with the classification of the Japan Life business as held for sale, its IFRS carrying value has been set to £48 million representing the estimated proceeds, net of related expenses of £3 million. The loss of £102 million (2012: profit of £17 million) attaching to the held for sale Japan Life business and included within non-operating items comprises the 2013 reduction on re-measuring the carrying value of the business and its trading results. During 2013, global equity markets have performed well overall, and the gradually improving outlook in most of the major economies has also led to a long-awaited uplift in long-term interest rates. These are positive developments for our business performance, and we are well positioned to benefit from the recovery in investment markets, having proactively defended the economics of our business when markets fell. The favourable impact of appreciating equity markets and rising yields, in combination with our strong execution and risk management, has benefited all of our key operating profit and underlying capital generation metrics in 2013. As part of the benefits we provide to our customers some of our products guarantee the value of the funds they hold with us to protect them against declines when markets fall. To protect ourselves from the downside risks to the Group’s financial position associated with these guarantees, we hold derivatives and other instruments to mitigate these exposures. In times of rising equity markets these will generally generate negative investment variances. In addition, while higher interest rates are beneficial to the long-term performance of our business, they do give rise to negative value movements on our holdings of fixed income securities. The impact of these collective short-term movements in investment values, reported outside the operating result, gave rise to a lower profit before tax attributable to shareholders of £1,635 million in 2013 (2012: £2,747 million). Another feature of 2013 was the volatility in the world’s currency markets. Following the US Federal Reserve’s statements in 2013 implying its intention to taper asset purchases, currencies in some of our key Asian markets, such as Indonesia in particular, saw significant depreciation in the second half of the year. The US dollar also depreciated against UK sterling as the strength of the economic recovery in the UK brought forward expectations of a UK interest rate increase. As the assets and liabilities of our overseas businesses are translated at year-end exchange rates, the effect of these currency movements has been incorporated within the end-2013 reported shareholders’ equity. However, the results of our overseas businesses are translated using average exchange rates for the year, as this is a reasonable approximation of the rates prevailing at the dates that our normal trading transactions have taken place in these markets. Accordingly, the full impact of the currency movements on the operating results of 2013 is more muted. The effective rate of tax at the total profit level was 18 per cent in 2013, compared to 21 per cent in 2012. The reduced rate is primarily due to a favourable deduction in respect of portfolio dividends received in Variable Annuity business. In addition, Prudential has benefitted from reductions in the main UK tax rate in 2013. Offsetting this Prudential sold Japan Life during the period which gave rise to a loss for which there was no tax relief. Further details are provided in note B5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The total profit before tax attributable to shareholders was £2,747 million in 2012, compared with £1,866 million in 2011. The improvement in total profit before tax attributable to shareholders reflects the increase in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and the positive investment market returns earned in the year. The effective rate of tax at the total profit level was 21 per cent in 2012 compared to 22 per cent in 2011. In both 2012 and 2011, Prudential has benefited from the favourable impact of certain income in some Asian 141 Table of Contents jurisdictions either not being taxable or being taxable at reduced rates. In addition, Prudential has benefitted from reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2012. Further details are provided in note B5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. (b) Summary by business segment and geographical region The Group’s operating segments as determined under IFRS 8 are insurance operations split by territories in which the Group conducts business, which are Asia, the United States and the United Kingdom, and asset management operations split into M&G, which is the Group’s UK and European asset management business, Eastspring Investments, which is the Asian asset management business and the US broker-dealer and asset management business (including Curian). The following table shows Prudential’s IFRS consolidated total profit/(loss) for the years indicated presented by summary business segment and geographic region. The accounting policies applied to the segments below are the same as those used in the Group’s consolidated accounts. Year ended 31 December 2013 £m Asia US UK Unallocatedcorporate Total Insurance operations 540 452 374 — 1,366 Asset management** 64 39 363 — 466 Total profit attributable to the segments 604 491 737 — 1,832 Unallocated corporate — — — (486 ) (486 ) Total profit (loss) for the year 604 491 737 (486 ) 1,346 Year ended 31 December 2012 £m* Asia US UK Unallocatedcorporate Total Insurance operations 831 621 708 — 2,160 Asset management** 58 18 404 — 480 Total profit attributable to the segments 889 639 1,112 — 2,640 Unallocated corporate — — — (477 ) (477 ) Total profit (loss) for the year 889 639 1,112 (477 ) 2,163 Year ended 31 December 2011 £m* Asia US UK Unallocatedcorporate Total Insurance operations 488 357 657 — 1,502 Asset management** 62 16 231 — 309 Total profit attributable to the segments 550 373 888 — 1,811 Unallocated corporate — — — (360 ) (360 ) Total profit (loss) for the year 550 373 888 (360 ) 1,451 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. ** For the US, including the broker dealer business and Curian. 142 Table of Contents Profit from insurance operations Total profit from insurance operations in 2013 was £1,366 million compared to £2,160 million in 2012 and £1,502 million in 2011. All of the profits from insurance operations in 2013, 2012 and 2011 were from continuing operations. The movement in profits for insurance operations can be summarised as follows: Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Profit before shareholder tax 1,687 2,704 1,978 Shareholder tax (321 ) (544 ) (476 ) Profit after tax 1,366 2,160 1,502 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The decrease of £1,017 million in profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily reflects an increase in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of the insurance operations of £373 million to £2,979 million being more than offset by an adverse change in short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed business of £1,183 million, the loss attaching to the held for sale Japan Life business as described above which was £102 million in 2013 (2012: profit of £17 million) and other non operating items of £107 million. The effective shareholder tax rate on profits from insurance operations decreased from 20 per cent in 2012 to 19 per cent in 2013. The reduced rate is primarily due to a favourable deduction in respect of portfolio dividends received in Variable Annuity business. In addition, Prudential has benefitted from reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2013. Offsetting this Prudential sold Japan Life during the period which gave rise to a loss for which there was no tax relief. Further details are provided in note B5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The increase of £726 million in profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2012 compared to 2011 reflects an increase in operating profits based on longer term investment returns combined with the favourable change in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for the insurance operations. The effective shareholder tax rate on profits from insurance operations decreased from 24 per cent in 2011 to 20 per cent in 2012. In both 2012 and 2011, Prudential has benefited from the favourable impact of certain income in some Asian jurisdictions either not being taxable or being taxable at reduced rates. In addition, Prudential has benefitted from reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2012. Further details are provided in note B5 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In order to understand how Prudential’s results are derived it is necessary to understand how profit emerges from its business. This varies from region to region, primarily due to differences in the nature of the products and regulatory environments in which Prudential operates. Asia Basis of profits The assets and liabilities of contracts classified as insurance under IFRS 4 are determined in accordance with methods prescribed by local GAAP and adjusted to comply, where necessary, with UK GAAP. Under IFRS 4, subject to the conditions of that standard, the continued application of UK GAAP in this respect is permitted. For Asia operations in countries where local GAAP is not well established and in which the business is primarily non-participating and linked business, the measurement of the insurance assets and liabilities is determined 143 Table of Contents substantially by reference to US GAAP principles. This basis is applied in India, Japan, Taiwan and until 2012 Vietnam. For with-profits business in Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia, the basis of profit recognition is bonus driven as described under ‘United Kingdom—Basis of Profits’ below. Comparison of total profit arising from Asia insurance operations The following table shows the movement in profit arising from Asia insurance operations for 2013, 2012 and 2011: Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Profit before shareholder tax 688 977 612 Shareholder tax (148 ) (146 ) (124 ) Profit after tax 540 831 488 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The decrease of £289 million from the profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2012 of £977 million to a profit of £688 million in 2013 primarily reflects an increase of £95 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to £1,001 million driven by the increasing scale of the in-force book, being more than offset by an adverse change in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed business of £258 million and a loss of £102 million attaching to the Japan Life business classified as held for sale as described above. The year on year adverse change in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns of £204 million was primarily due to the negative net unrealised movements on bond holdings in 2013 following a rise in bond yields. The effective shareholder tax rate changed from 15 per cent in 2012 to 22 per cent in 2013, with the movement principally due to the sale of Japan Life during the period which gave rise to a loss for which there was no tax relief. Excluding the impact of the held for sale Japan Life business the tax rate is 19 per cent. The 2012 profit before tax attributable to shareholders of £977 million represented an increase of £365 million over 2011 of £612 million. This primarily reflects an increase of £207 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, combined with an improvement in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed business of £147 million. The effective shareholder tax rate changed from 20 per cent in 2011 to 15 per cent in 2012, with the movement principally due to Prudential benefiting from the favourable impact of certain income in some Asian jurisdictions either not being taxable or being taxable at reduced rates. United States Basis of profits The underlying profit on Jackson’s business predominantly arises from spread income from interest-sensitive products, such as fixed annuities, institutional products and fee income on variable annuity business with the insurance assets and liabilities of the business measured on a US GAAP basis. In addition, the results in any period include the incidence of gains and losses on assets classified as available-for-sale, and fair value movements on derivatives and securities classified as fair valued through profit and loss. 144 Table of Contents Comparison of total profit arising from US insurance operations The following table shows the movement in profit arising from US insurance operations for 2013, 2012 and 2011: Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012 2011 Profit before shareholder tax 553 855 484 Shareholder tax (101 ) (234 ) (127 ) Profit after tax 452 621 357 The £302 million decrease in profit before tax attributable to shareholders in 2013 against 2012, was primarily due to an increase of £279 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to £1,243 million which was more than offset by an adverse change of £535 million in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns reflected in the income statement. The increase in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns in 2013 compared to 2012 reflects strong underlying growth in fee income which was partially offset by higher expenses. The adverse movement in short-term fluctuation in investment returns was mainly due to the negative net unrealised value movement on derivatives held to manage the Group’s exposure to market movements following rises in equity values. The effective tax rate on profits from US operations decreased from 27 per cent in 2012 to 18 per cent in 2013 due a favourable deduction in respect of portfolio dividends received in Variable Annuity business. The increase in profit before shareholder tax of £371 million in 2012 compared to 2011 was due primarily to an increase of £313 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns, combined with a favourable change in the short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder backed business. The profit before shareholder tax in 2012 includes a £61 million contribution from REALIC which was acquired in September 2012, of which the operating profit based on longer-term investment returns was £67 million. Excluding this contribution from REALIC, the remaining year on year increase of £246 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns primarily reflects higher fee income generated by growth in the separate account assets, as well as the expected non-recurring impact of accelerated deferred acquisition cost (DAC) amortisation of £190 million in 2011. This has been partially offset by the adverse effect on spread income of lower bond yields. The effective tax rate on profit from the US insurance operations changed from 26 per cent in 2011 to 27 per cent in 2012 due to adverse revisions to prior period tax returns. United Kingdom Basis of profits Prudential’s results comprise an annual profit distribution to shareholders from its UK long-term with-profits fund as well as profits from its annuity and other businesses. For Prudential’s UK insurance operations, the primary annual contribution to shareholders’ profit comes from its with-profits products. With-profits products are designed to provide policyholders with smoothed investment returns through a mix of regular and final bonuses. For with-profits business (including non-participating business owned by the PAC with-profits fund), adjustments to liabilities and any related tax effects are recognised in the income statement. However, except for any impact on the annual declaration of bonuses, shareholder profit for with-profits business is unaffected. This 145 Table of Contents is because IFRS basis profits for the with-profits business, which are determined on the same basis as on preceding UK GAAP, solely reflect one-ninth of the cost of bonuses declared for the year. Further details on the determination of the bonuses (‘regular’ and ‘final’) are provided in note C4.2(c)(i) to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The results of the UK shareholder-backed annuity business reflect the inclusion of investment return including realised and unrealised gains and losses. The charge for benefits reflects the valuation rate of interest applied to discount future anticipated payments to policyholders. This rate in turn reflects current market yields adjusted for factors including default risks on the assets backing the liabilities. The level of allowance for default risk is a key assumption. Details are included in note B4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Comparison of total profit arising from UK insurance operations The following table shows the movement in profit arising from UK insurance operations for 2013, 2012 and 2011: Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Profit before shareholder tax 446 872 882 Shareholder tax (72 ) (164 ) (225 ) Profit after tax 374 708 657 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Profit after tax from UK insurance operations of £374 million in 2013 is £334 million lower than the £708 million in 2012. The decrease in profit before tax attributable to shareholders of £426 million to £446 million in 2013 was primarily due to an adverse change in the value of short-term fluctuations in investment returns of £390 million which included the net unrealised movements on fixed income assets supporting the capital of the shareholder backed annuity business. Operating profit based on longer-term investments returns of £735 million in 2013 was comparable to the £736 million in 2012. Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns included general insurance commissions of £29 million in 2013 compared with £33 million for 2012. The effective shareholder tax rate on profits from UK insurance operations for 2013 of 16 per cent compares with the effective tax rate of 19 per cent in 2012, with the movement principally due to reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2013. The decrease in profit before tax attributable to shareholders of £10 million to £872 million in 2012 was primarily due to an adverse change in the value of short-term fluctuations in investment returns of the shareholder-backed business of £23 million which reflects asset value movements principally on the shareholder-backed annuity business. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in operating profit based on longer-term investments returns of £13 million in 2012. Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of £736 million included general insurance commissions which decreased by £7 million to £33 million in 2012 compared with £40 million for 2011. The effective shareholder tax rate on profits from UK insurance operations for 2012 of 19 per cent compares with an effective tax rate of 25 per cent in 2011, with the movement principally due to reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2012. 146 Table of Contents Profit from asset management The following table shows the movement in profits from asset management for 2013, 2012 and 2011: Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Profit before shareholder tax 596 619 426 Shareholder tax (130 ) (139 ) (117 ) Profit after tax 466 480 309 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those provisionally published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Total profit from asset management decreased from £480 million in 2012 to £466 million in 2013. The decrease of £23 million in profit before shareholder tax in 2013 compared to 2012 resulted mainly from a decrease for M&G by £48 million from £511 million in 2012 to £463 million in 2013. The profit before shareholder tax for Eastspring Investments increased by £5 million from £69 million in 2012 to £74 million in 2013. US broker dealer and asset management operations profit before shareholder tax increased by £20 million from £39 million in 2012 to £59 million in 2013. The £48 million decrease in the profit before shareholder tax of M&G primarily reflects an increase of £70 million in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to £441 million offset by an adverse change in short-term fluctuations in investment returns for shareholder-backed business of £76 million. In addition, the M&G results in 2012 included a one-off gain of £42 million arising on the dilution of M&G’s investment holding in PPM South Africa. The effective tax rate on profits from asset management operations decreased from 22.4 per cent in 2012 to 21.8 per cent in 2013. Total profit from asset management increased from £309 million in 2011 to £480 million in 2012. The £171 million increase in profit before tax attributable to shareholders resulted mainly from an increase in profit generated by M&G, which increased from profit before tax of £327 million in 2011 to £511 million in 2012. The profit before tax attributable to shareholders for Eastspring Investments reduced by £6 million from £75 million in 2011 to £69 million in 2012. Profits generated by the US broker dealer and asset management operations increased by £15 million from £24 million in 2011 to £39 million in 2012. The £184 million increase in profit before tax attributable to M&G was the result of a favourable change in short term fluctuations in investment returns of £128 million compared with 2011, an increase in operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of £14 million and a one-off gain of £42 million arising on the dilution of M&G’s investment holding in PPM South Africa. The effective tax rate on profits from asset management operations changed from 27 per cent in 2011 to 22 per cent in 2012 principally due to the gain arising on the dilution of M&G’s investment holding in PPM South Africa being non taxable. 147 Table of Contents Unallocated corporate result The following table shows the movement in the unallocated corporate result for 2013, 2012 and 2011. Year Ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Loss before shareholder tax (648 ) (576 ) (538 ) Shareholder tax 162 99 178 Loss after tax (486 ) (477 ) (360 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those provisionally published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Total net charges for unallocated corporate activity increased by £9 million from £477 million in 2012 to £486 million in 2013 and increased by £117 million from £360 million in 2011 to £477 million in 2012. The loss before shareholder tax increased by £72 million from £576 million in 2012 to £648 million at 2013. Net other expenditure (including restructuring and Solvency II implementation costs) increased by £34 million from £565 million in 2012 to £599 million in 2013. This was combined with an adverse change of £38 million in short-term fluctuations in investment returns from a loss of £11 million in 2012 to a loss of £49 million in 2013. The effective tax rate on unallocated corporate result changed from 17 per cent at 2012 to 25 per cent at 2013, reflecting the settlement of prior year balances in the UK and Asia following agreement with taxation authorities. The loss before shareholder tax increased by £38 million from £538 million at 2011 to £576 million at 2012. Net other expenditure (including restructuring and Solvency II implementation costs) increased by £53 million from a charge of £512 million in 2011 to a charge of £565 million in 2012. This was more than offset by a favourable change of £15 million in short-term fluctuations in investment returns from £26 million loss in 2011 to £11 million loss in 2012. The 2011 net other expenditure included a credit of £42 million resulting from the Prudential’s alteration of its inflation measure basis for future statutory increases to pension payments for certain tranches of Prudential’s UK defined benefit schemes. This reflected the UK Government’s decision to replace the RPI basis of indexation with the CPI. The effective tax rate on unallocated corporate result (being a tax credit on a loss) changed from 33 per cent in 2011 to 17 per cent in 2012, principally due to an increase in provisions for open tax matters and reductions in the main UK corporate tax rate in 2012. (c) Additional explanation of performance measures and analysis of consolidated results by business segment and geographical region Prudential uses a performance measure of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns. The directors believe that this performance measure better reflects underlying performance. It is the basis used by management for the reasons outlined below. It is also the basis on which analysis of the Group’s results has been provided to UK shareholders and the UK financial market for some years under long standing conventions for reporting by proprietary UK life assurers. Prudential determines and presents operating segments based on the information that is internally provided to the Group Executive Committee (‘GEC’), which is Prudential’s chief operating decision maker. 148 Table of Contents An operating segment is a component of Prudential that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of Prudential’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the GEC to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available. The operating segments identified by Prudential reflect its organisational structure, which is by both geography (Asia, US and UK) and by product line (insurance operations and asset management). The Group’s operating segments, determined in accordance with IFRS 8, ‘Operating Segments’, are as follows: Insurance operations • Asia • US (Jackson) • UK Asset management operations • M&G (including Prudential Capital) • Eastspring Investments • US broker-dealer and asset management (including Curian) The Group’s operating segments are also its reportable segments for the purposes of internal management reporting with the exception of Prudential Capital (PruCap) which has been incorporated into the M&G operating segment for the purposes of segment reporting. The performance measure of operating segments utilised by the Company is IFRS operating profit attributable to shareholders based on longer-term investment returns, as described below. This measurement basis distinguishes operating profit based on long-term investment returns from other constituents of the total profit as follows: • Short-term fluctuations in investment returns. • Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on the purchase of business. This comprises principally the charge for the adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC in 2012. • For 2012, gain on dilution of the Group’s holdings in PPM South Africa. • (Loss) profit attaching to the held for sale Japan Life business. See note D1 for further details. • For 2013, the costs associated with the domestication of the Hong Kong branch. Segment results that are reported to the Group Executive Committee include items directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items are mainly in relation to the Group Head Office and the Asia Regional Head Office. Except in the case of assets backing the UK annuity, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for shareholder-financed business is determined on the basis of expected longer-term investment returns. In the case of assets backing the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity separate account liabilities, the basis of determining operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is as follows: • UK annuity business liabilities: For this business, policyholder liabilities are determined by reference to current interest rates. The value movements of the assets covering liabilities are closely correlated with the related change in liabilities. Accordingly, asset value movements are recorded within the 149 Table of Contents ‘operating results based on longer-term investment returns’. Policyholder liabilities include a margin for credit risk. Variations between actual and best estimate expected impairments are recorded as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns. • Unit-linked and US variable annuity business separate account liabilities: For such business, the policyholder unit liabilities are directly reflective of the asset value movements. Accordingly, the operating results based on longer-term investment returns reflect the current period value movements in unit liabilities and the backing assets. In the case of other shareholder-financed business, the measurement of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns reflects the particular features of long-term insurance business where assets and liabilities are held for the long-term and for which the accounting basis for insurance liabilities under current IFRS is not generally conducive to demonstrating trends in underlying performance of life businesses exclusive of the effects of short-term fluctuations in market conditions. In determining the profit on this basis, the following key elements are applied to the results of the Group’s shareholder-financed operations. (a) Debt, equity-type securities and loans Longer-term investment returns comprise actual income receivable for the period (interest/dividend income) and for both debt and equity-type securities longer-term capital returns. In principle, for debt securities and loans, the longer-term capital returns comprise two elements: • Risk margin reserve based charge for the expected level of defaults for the period, which is determined by reference to the credit quality of the portfolio. The difference between impairment losses in the reporting period and the risk margin reserve charge to the operating result is reflected in short-term fluctuations in investment returns. • The amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses to operating results based on longer-term investment returns to the date when sold bonds would have otherwise matured. Jackson is the shareholder-backed operation for which the distinction between impairment losses and interest-related realised gains and losses is in practice relevant to a significant extent. Jackson has used the ratings by Nationally Recognised Statistical Ratings Organisations (NRSRO) or ratings resulting from the regulatory ratings detail issued by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) developed by external third parties such as PIMCO or BlackRock Solutions to determine the average annual risk margin reserve to apply to debt securities held to back general account business. Debt securities held to back separate account and reinsurance funds withheld are not subject to risk margin reserve charge. Further details of the risk margin reserve charge, as well as the amortisation of interest-related realised gains and losses, for Jackson are shown in note B1.2 in Item 18. For debt securities backing non-linked shareholder-financed business of the UK insurance operations (other than the annuity business) and of the Asia insurance operations, the realised gains and losses are principally interest related. Accordingly, all realised gains and losses to date for these operations are being amortised over the period to the date those securities would otherwise have matured, with no explicit risk margin reserve charge. At 31 December 2013, the level of unamortised interest-related realised gains and losses related to previously sold bonds for the Group was a net gain of £461 million (2012: net gain of £495 million; 2011: net gain of £460 million). For equity-type securities, the longer-term rates of return are estimates of the long-term trend investment return for income and capital having regard to past performance, current trends and future expectations. Equity-type securities held for shareholder-financed operations other than the UK annuity business, unit-linked and US variable annuity are of significance for the US and Asia insurance operations. Different rates apply to different categories of equity-type securities. 150 Table of Contents As at 31 December 2013, the equity-type securities for US insurance non-separate account operations amounted to £1,118 million (2012: £1,004 million; 2011: £902 million). For these operations, the longer-term rates of return for income and capital applied in 2013 and 2012, which reflect the combination of risk free rates and appropriate risk premiums are as follows: 2013 2012 2011 Equity-type securities such as common and preferred stock and portfolio holdings in mutual funds 5.7% to 6.8% 5.5% to 6.2% 5.9% to 7.5% Other equity-type securities such as investments in limited partnerships and private equity funds 7.7% to 9.0% 7.5% to 8.2% 7.9% to 9.5% For Asia insurance operations, excluding assets of the Japan Life held for sale business, investments in equity securities held for non-linked shareholder-financed operations amounted to £571 million as at 31 December 2013 (2012: £474 million; 2011: £443 million). The rates of return applied in the years 2013 and 2012 ranged from 3.42 per cent to 13.75 per cent with the rates applied varying by territory. The longer-term rates of return discussed above for equity-type securities are determined after consideration by the Group’s in-house economists of long-term expected real government bond returns, equity risk premium and long-term inflation. These rates are broadly stable from period to period but may be different between countries reflecting, for example, differing expectations of inflation in each territory. The assumptions are for returns expected to apply in equilibrium conditions. The assumed rates of return do not reflect any cyclical variability in economic performance and are not set by reference to prevailing asset valuations. The longer-term investment returns for the Asia insurance joint ventures accounted for on the equity method are determined on a similar basis as the other Asia insurance operations described above. (b) US variable and fixed index annuity business The following value movements for Jackson’s variable and fixed index annuity business are excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns: • fair value movements for equity-based derivatives; • fair value movements for embedded derivatives for Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit ‘not for life’ and fixed index annuity business, and Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit reinsurance (see note); • movements in accounts carrying value of Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefit and Guaranteed Minimum Withdrawal Benefit ‘for life’ liabilities, for which, under the ‘grandfathered’ US GAAP applied under IFRS for Jackson’s insurance assets and liabilities, the measurement basis gives rise to a muted impact of current period market movements; • fee assessments and claim payments, in respect of guarantee liabilities; and • related amortisation of deferred acquisition costs for each of the above items. Note: US operations—Embedded derivatives for variable annuity guarantee features The Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit liability, which is fully reinsured, subject to a deductible and annual claim limits, is accounted for in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC) Subtopic 944-80 Financial Services—Insurance—Separate Accounts (formerly SOP 03-1) under IFRS using ‘grandfathered’ US GAAP. As the corresponding reinsurance asset is net settled, it is considered to be a derivative under IAS 39, ‘Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement’, and the asset is therefore recognised at fair value. As the Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefit is economically reinsured the mark to market element of the reinsurance asset is included as a component of short-term fluctuations in investment returns. 151 Table of Contents (c) Other derivative value movements Generally, derivative value movements are excluded from operating results based on longer-term investment returns (unless those derivative value movements broadly offset changes in the accounting value of other assets and liabilities included in operating profit). The principal example of non-equity based derivatives (for example interest rate swaps and swaptions) whose value movements are excluded from operating profit arises in Jackson. Non-equity based derivatives are primarily held by Jackson as part of a broadly-based hedging programme for features of Jackson’s bond portfolio (for which value movements are booked in the statement of comprehensive income rather than the income statement), product liabilities (for which US GAAP accounting as ‘grandfathered’ under IFRS 4 does not fully reflect the economic features being hedged), and the interest rate exposure attaching to equity-based embedded derivatives. (d) Other liabilities to policyholders and embedded derivatives for product guarantees Under IFRS, the degree to which the carrying values of liabilities to policyholders are sensitive to current market conditions varies between territories depending upon the nature of the ‘grandfathered’ measurement basis. In general, in those instances where the liabilities are particularly sensitive to routine changes in market conditions, the accounting basis is such that the impact of market movements on the assets and liabilities is broadly equivalent in the income statement, and operating profit based on longer-term investments returns is not distorted. In these circumstances, there is no need for the movement in the liability to be bifurcated between the elements that relate to longer-term market conditions and short-term effects. However, some types of business movements in liabilities do require bifurcation to ensure that at the net level (ie after allocated investment return and change for policyholder benefits) the operating result reflects longer-term market returns. Examples where such bifurcation is necessary are: Asia—Hong Kong For certain non-participating business, the economic features are more akin to asset management products with policyholder liabilities reflecting asset shares over the contract term. For these products, the charge for policyholder benefits in the operating results should reflect the asset share feature rather than volatile movements that would otherwise be reflected if the local regulatory basis (also applied for IFRS basis) was used. For other Hong Kong non-participating business, longer term interest rates are used to determine the movement in policyholder liabilities for determining operating results. Similar principles apply for other Asia operations. UK shareholder-backed annuity business The operating result based on longer-term investment returns reflects the impact of value movements on policyholder liabilities for annuity business in PRIL and the PAC non-profit sub-fund after adjustments to allocate the following elements of the movement to the category of ‘short-term fluctuations in investment returns’: • The impact on credit risk provisioning of actual upgrades and downgrades during the period; • Credit experience compared to assumptions • Short-term value movements on assets backing the capital of the business. Credit experience reflects the impact of defaults and other similar experience, such as asset exchanges arising from debt restructuring by issuers that include effectively an element of permanent impairment of the security held. Negative experience compared to assumptions is included within short-term fluctuations in investment 152 Table of Contents returns without further adjustment. This is to be contrasted with positive experience where surpluses are retained in short-term allowances for credit risk for IFRS reporting purposes. The effects of other changes to credit risk provisioning are included in the operating result, as is the net effect of changes to the valuation rate of interest due to portfolio rebalancing to align more closely with management benchmark. (e) Fund management and other non-insurance businesses For these businesses, the particular features applicable for life assurance noted above do not apply. For these businesses it is inappropriate to include returns in the operating result on the basis described above. Instead, it is appropriate to generally include realised gains and losses (including impairments) in the operating result with unrealised gains and losses being included in short-term fluctuations. For this purpose impairments are calculated as the credit loss determined by comparing the projected cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate to the carrying value. In some instances it may also be appropriate to amortise realised gains and losses on derivatives and other financial instruments to operating results over a time period that reflects the underlying economic substance of the arrangements. 153 Table of Contents Reconciliation of total profit (loss) by business segment and geography to IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Analysis of IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and IFRS total profit A reconciliation of profit (loss) before tax (including tax attributable to policyholders’ returns) to profit (loss) before tax attributable to shareholders and profit for the period is shown below. 2013 £m 2012 £m* 2011 £m* Insurance business Long-term business(ii) Asia 1,003 913 704 US 1,243 964 651 UK 706 703 683 Development expenses (2 ) (7 ) (5 ) Long-term business operating profit 2,950 2,573 2,033 UK general insurance commission(iii) 29 33 40 Asset management business M&G 441 371 357 Eastspring Investments 74 69 75 US broker-dealer and asset management 59 39 24 3,553 3,085 2,529 Other income and expenditure (558 ) (498 ) (483 ) RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit pension schemes(iv) — — 42 Solvency II implementation costs (29 ) (48 ) (55 ) Restructuring costs(v) (12 ) (19 ) (16 ) Total IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns(i) 2,954 2,520 2,017 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns(vi) Insurance operations (1,083 ) 100 (101 ) Other operations (27 ) 87 (56 ) Total short-term fluctuations in investment returns (1,110 ) 187 (157 ) Gain on dilution of Group’s holdings — 42 — Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments (72 ) (19 ) — (Loss)/Profit attaching to held for sale Japan Life business (102 ) 17 6 Costs of domestication of Hong Kong branch` (35 ) — — Profit before tax from continuing operations attributable to shareholders 1,635 2,747 1,866 Tax (charge) credit attributable to shareholders’ returns (289 ) (584 ) (415 ) Profit for the year 1,346 2,163 1,451 Non-controlling interests — — (4 ) Total profit for the year attributable to equity holders of Prudential 1,346 2,163 1,447 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In addition, following its reclassification as held for sale at 31 December 2013, operating results exclude the result of the Japan Life business. 2012 comparatives have been retrospectively adjusted on a comparable basis. 154 Table of Contents (i) Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns The Group provides supplementary analysis of IFRS profit before tax attributable to shareholders so as to distinguish operating profit based on longer-term investment returns from other elements of total profit. Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is the basis on which management regularly reviews the performance of Prudential’s segments as defined by IFRS 8. Further discussion on the determination of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns is provided in B1.3 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18 and section c “Additional explanation of performance measures and analysis of consolidated results by business segment and geographical region” above. (ii) Effect of changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of determining life assurance liabilities The results of the Group’s long-term business operations are affected by changes to assumptions, estimates and bases of preparation. These are described in note B4 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. (iii) UK operations transferred its general insurance business to Churchill in 2002, with general insurance commission representing the commission received net of expenses for Prudential-branded general insurance products as part of this arrangement. (iv) During 2011 the Group altered its inflation measure basis for future statutory increases to pension payments for certain tranches of its UK defined benefit pension schemes. This reflects the UK Government’s decision to replace the basis of indexation from Retail Price Index (RPI) to the Consumer Prices Index (CPI). This resulted in a credit to operating profit before tax in 2011 of £42 million. (v) Restructuring costs are incurred in the UK and represent one-off expenses incurred in securing expense savings. (vi) Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business comprise: 2013 £m 2012* £m 2011* £m Insurance operations: Asia (204 ) 54 (93 ) US (625 ) (90 ) (167 ) UK (254 ) 136 159 Other operations: —Economic hedge value movement — (32 ) — —Other (27 ) 119 (56 ) Total (1,110 ) 187 (157 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Further details on the short-term fluctuations in investment returns are provided below under ‘Charge for short-term fluctuations in investment returns’ and also in note B1.2 in the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 155 Table of Contents Reconciliation of IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to IFRS total profit The following tables reconcile Prudential’s operating profit based on longer-term investment returns to Prudential’s total profit after tax for 2013, 2012 and 2011. Year ended 31 December 2013 £m Insurance operations Asset management Asia US UK M&G US EastspringInvestments Totalsegment Unallocatedcorporate Total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,001 1,243 735 441 59 74 3,553 (599 ) 2,954 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business (204 ) (625 ) (254 ) 22 — — (1,061 ) (49 ) (1,110 ) Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments (7 ) (65 ) — — — — (72 ) — (72 ) Loss attaching to held for sale Japan life business (102 ) — — — — — (102 ) — (102 ) Costs of domestication of Hong Kong branch — — (35 ) — — — (35 ) — (35 ) Profit (loss) before tax attributable to shareholders 688 553 446 463 59 74 2,283 (648 ) 1,635 Tax attributable to shareholders (289 ) Profit for the year 1,346 Year ended 31 December 2012* £m Insurance operations Asset management Asia US UK M&G US EastspringInvestments Totalsegment Unallocatedcorporate Total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 906 964 736 371 39 69 3,085 (565 ) 2,520 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder backed business 54 (90 ) 136 98 — — 198 (11 ) 187 Gain on dilution of Group holdings — — — 42 — — 42 — 42 Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments arising on purchase of REALIC — (19 ) — — — — (19 ) — (19 ) Profit attaching to held for sale Japan Life business 17 — — — — — 17 — 17 Profit (loss) from continuing operations before tax attributable to shareholders 977 855 872 511 39 69 3,323 (576 ) 2,747 Tax attributable to shareholders (584 ) Profit for the year 2,163 * The 2012 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards as discussed in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In addition, following its reclassification as held for sale at 31 December 2013, operating results exclude the result of the Japan Life insurance business. 156 Table of Contents Year ended 31 December 2011* £m Insuranceoperations Asset management Asia US UK M&G US EastspringInvestments Totalsegment Unallocatedcorporate Total Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 699 651 723 357 24 75 2,529 (512 ) 2,017 Short-term fluctuations in investment returns on shareholder-backed business (93 ) (167 ) 159 (30 ) — — (131 ) (26 ) (157 ) Profit attaching to held for sale Japan Life business 6 — — — — — 6 — 6 Profit (loss) before tax attributable to shareholders 612 484 882 327 24 75 2,404 (538 ) 1,866 Tax attributable to shareholders (415 ) Profit for the year 1,451 * The 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In addition, following its reclassification as held-for-sale at 31 December 2013, operating results exclude the results of the Japan Life insurance business. IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns Total IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns(28) increased by 17 per cent in 2013 to £2,954 million (2012: £2,520 million), driven by higher contributions from both life insurance and asset management. Insurance Operations 2013 compared to 2012 Operating profit based on longer term investment returns from our insurance operations in Asia, the US and the UK increased 14 per cent to £2,979 million (2012: £2,606 million). The increase in the profitability of our life operations reflects the growth in the scale of our life business, driven primarily by positive business flows. We track the progress that we make in growing our life book of business by reference to the scale of our obligations to our customers, which are referred to in the financial statements as the policyholder liabilities. Each year these liabilities increase as we collect premiums and decrease as we pay claims. The overall scale of these policyholder liabilities is relevant in evaluating our profit potential, in that it is reflective of our ability to earn fees on the unit-linked element and it sizes the risk that we carry on the insurance element, for which Prudential needs to be rewarded. Our Asia life insurance business continues to benefit from the growth of the in-force portfolio and our focus on building the proportion of our business that comprises health and protection, with operating profit(28) based on longer-term investment returns of £1,001 million (2012: £906 million) up 10 per cent. Adjusting for the 2012 one-off gain on the sale of our holding in China Life Insurance Company in Taiwan and currency movements, underlying growth was 20 per cent. The principal driver of our profitability in the region is our health and protection business which delivered 68 per cent or £679 million (2012: £589 million) of total life profits. Indonesia IFRS operating profit, our largest market on this measure, was up by 23 per cent at constant exchange rates, reflecting increased insurance and fee income from the high level of regular premium health and protection (28) Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies as discussed in note A2 to the Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In addition, following its reclassification as held for sale during 2013, operating results exclude the result of the Japan life insurance business. Profit before tax continues to include these results. 2012 comparatives have been retrospectively adjusted on a comparable basis. 157 Table of Contents and unit-linked sales in recent years. Our other large established markets of Hong Kong, Malaysia and Singapore, also showed collective double digit growth in IFRS operating profit, driven by higher insurance margin and in the case of Hong Kong, higher bonus rates on with-profits business. There was encouraging progress in our smaller, fast-growing South-east Asia businesses in Thailand, the Philippines and Vietnam. Their combined operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of £125 million has increased by 166 per cent during 2013, and now accounts for 12 per cent of the Asia life total compared to 5 per cent in 2012. In Thailand, the inclusion of profits since May 2013 from the acquired Thanachart in-force portfolio together with profits on new business written through our exclusive partnership with Thanachart Bank contributed operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of £30 million. In the US, long-term business operating profit based on longer-term investment returns was up 29 per cent in 2013 to £1,243 million (2012: £964 million), which includes a contribution of £128 million from REALIC (2012: £67 million). Jackson’s total income increased by 24 per cent to £2,514 million (2012: £2,031 million) outpacing the 19 per cent growth in total expenses net of deferred acquisition cost adjustments totalling £1,271 million (2012: £1,067 million). Fee income has become Jackson’s main source of earnings and has grown by 34 per cent to £1,172 million (2012: £875 million). The uplift in fee income is in line with the 33 per cent growth in separate account assets in the period to £65.7 billion (2012: £49.3 billion) reflecting the benefit of variable annuity premium inflows and the rise in US equity markets since December 2012. Insurance margin at £588 million (2012: £399 million) is now a more significant contributor to Jackson’s earnings following the acquisition of REALIC’s seasoned book of term insurance business. Spread income has increased 4 per cent to £730 million (2012: £702 million). We continue to focus on improving the balance of Jackson’s profits and diversifying its sources of earnings and we are pleased that the earnings from REALIC have been consistent with expectations at the time of the acquisition. UK long-term business operating profit based on longer-term investment returns was in line with 2012 at £735 million (2012: £736 million). The comparative result included a £31 million profit from writing wholesale contracts, compared with £25 million for 2013. Excluding these contracts, UK Retail operating profit based on longer-term investment returns increased 1 per cent, and included the £34 million positive impact of a longevity swap entered into this year to further optimise the capital position of the business. Consistent with our focused product strategy in the UK, the operating result is driven by profits from shareholder-backed individual annuities(29) and with-profits business, which accounted for 92 per cent of the retail operating profit based on longer-term investment returns. 2012 compared to 2011 In Asia, operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for long-term business increased by £209 million from £704 million(30) in 2011 to £913 million in 2012. Included within this result is a £51 million one-off profit on sale of the Group’s interest in China Life Insurance Company of Taiwan, which was originally acquired in 2008 when Prudential sold its Taiwanese agency business to the company. Excluding this amount, Asia’s long-term business operating profit based on longer-term investment return increased by 22 per cent to £862 million, primarily reflecting strong growth in the size of our business in the region, particularly health and protection. The contribution to profits from Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore and Malaysia, Prudential’s largest markets in Asia, continues to rise, with operating profits based on longer-term investment return from these businesses(31) up 22 per cent from £552 million in 2011 to £674 million in 2012. High consumer demand for savings and protection in Indonesia continues to drive growth in premiums and earnings, with operating profit(32) based on longer-term investment returns up 23 per cent from £212 million to £260 million. Hong Kong’s operating profit(32) based on (29) See Item 4 ‘Information on the Company—Business of Prudential—UK Business—Prudential UK&Europe business overview’ for information on the 2014 UK Budget announcement. (30) Comparative adjusted for retrospective application of the accounting policy change for deferred acquisition costs as discussed in note A2 to the Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. (31) Before non-recurring items. (32) Before non-recurring items. 158 Table of Contents longer-term investment returns increased by 28 per cent to £88 million (2011: £69 million), as business mix has shifted towards higher return products. Singapore increased by 23 per cent to £206 million (2011: £167 million) and Malaysia’s operating profit(32) based on longer-term investment returns at £120 million (2011: £104 million) increased by 15 per cent. Operating profits based on longer-term investment returns from our other long-term insurance operations in the region also increased by 24 per cent to £147 million (2011: £119 million), as these businesses increase in size. The US long-term business operating profit based on longer-term investment return increased by 48 per cent from £651 million in 2011 to £964 million in 2012. The 2011 result included an accelerated deferred acquisition cost (DAC) amortisation of £190 million that did not recur. Excluding this item the underlying increase reflects the continued growth in fee income on the separate account business offset by lower earnings from fixed annuities in line with the compression in corporate spreads experienced in the course of the year. The result also includes a £67 million contribution from REALIC which was acquired in September 2012 and is performing in line with our expectations. Prudential’s UK business has sustained its performance at similar levels to the previous year, with total IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns of £736 million (2011: £723 million). Long-term business generated £703 million (2011: £683 million) driven by an increase in profits from individual annuities and bulk annuity transactions, the latter contributing £31 million (2011: £23 million) to the total. Shareholders’ with-profits business transfers amounted to £272 million, compared with £293 million in 2011, in line with reductions in policy bonus rates. Profit from UK general insurance commission continued to decline as expected to £33 million (2011: £40 million) as the business matures and in-force policy numbers fall. Asset management business 2013 compared to 2012 Total operating profit based on longer-term investment return for 2013 from M&G and Prudential Capital increased by 19 per cent, from £371 million in 2012 to £441 million in 2013, primarily reflecting positive net inflows into M&G during 2012 and 2013. M&G’s operating profit based on longer-term investment returns increased 23 per cent to a new record level of £395 million (2012: £320 million). Underlying profits, excluding performance-related payments and earnings from associates, increased 20 per cent to £358 million (2012: £298 million), reflecting both a 13 per cent uplift in external funds under management following a period of strong net inflows and positive market movements, and also the positive mix effect from the growing proportion of higher margin retail business. M&G’s average fee income across all the external and internal funds it manages was up slightly at 37 basis points (2012: 36 basis points), with higher income helping to absorb the current phase of increased headcount and infrastructure investment, maintaining a cost income ratio at 59 per cent (2012: 59 per cent). Our Asia asset management business, Eastspring Investments, has also seen the combination of net inflows and more favourable equity market conditions, partially offset by adverse currency movement, contribute to a 7 per cent increase in operating profit(33) based on longer-term investment returns to £74 million (2012: £69 million). Higher funds under management resulted in a 10 per cent uplift in revenue, outstripping a 5 per cent increase in expenses which included ongoing investment to expand the Eastspring Investments platform into new markets. In the US, our asset management businesses, PPM America and Curian, and our broker-dealer network, National Planning Holdings, collectively generated operating profits based on longer-term investment returns of (33) Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of IFRS accounting policies as discussed in note A2 to the Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In addition, following its reclassification as held for sale during 2013, operating results exclude the result of the Japan life insurance business. Profit before tax continues to include these results. 2012 comparatives have been retrospectively adjusted on a comparable basis. 159 Table of Contents £59 million (2012: £39 million). Curian’s profit increased from £15 million in 2012 to £29 million in 2013 due to higher average assets under management, particularly reflecting the addition of assets managed for Jackson’s Elite Access product. 2012 compared to 2011 Total operating profit based on longer-term investment return for 2012 from M&G and Prudential Capital increased by 4 per cent, from £357 million in 2011 to £371 million in 2012, primarily reflecting positive net inflows into M&G during 2011 and 2012. Eastspring Investments reported operating profit based on longer-term investment return of £75 million, down by £5 million from the £80 million recognised in 2011. This reflects a broadly unchanged level of fee income with the effect of higher fund values offset by a shift in business mix towards bond mandates, together with increased costs as the business develops the Eastspring Investments platform and expands into new markets. Unallocated corporate result Operating loss based on longer-term investment returns for 2013 of £599 million comprised of a charge for other income and expenditure of £558 million and Solvency II implementation costs of £29 million. Operating loss based on longer-term investment returns for 2012 of £565 million comprised of a charge for other income and expenditure of £498 million, Solvency II implementation costs of £48 million and restructuring costs of £19 million. Operating loss based on longer-term investment returns for 2011 of £512 million comprised a charge for other income and expenditure of £483 million, Solvency II implementation costs of £55 million, restructuring costs of £16 million and a £42 million one-off credit, which was based on the UK Government’s decision in 2011 to change the basis of indexation from RPI to CPI and as a result of which the Group altered its assumptions for future statutory increases to pension payments for its UK defined benefit pension schemes. Analysis of long-term insurance business pre-tax IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns by driver This schedule classifies the Group’s pre-tax operating earnings from long-term insurance operations into the underlying drivers of those profits, using the following categories: i Spread income represents the difference between net investment income (or premium income in the case of the UK annuities new business) and amounts credited to certain policyholder accounts. It excludes the operating investment return on shareholder net assets, which has been separately disclosed as expected return on shareholder assets. ii Fee income represents profits driven by net investment performance, being asset management fees that vary with the size of the underlying policyholder funds net of investment management expenses. iii With-profits business represents the shareholders’ transfer from the with-profits fund in the year. iv Insurance margin primarily represents profits derived from the insurance risks of mortality, morbidity and persistency. v Margin on revenues primarily represents amounts deducted from premiums to cover acquisition costs and administration expenses. vi Acquisition costs and administration expenses represent expenses incurred in the year attributable to shareholders. It excludes items such as restructuring costs and Solvency II costs which are not included in 160 Table of Contents the segment profit for insurance as well as items that are more appropriately included in other source of earnings lines (eg investment expenses are netted against investment income as part of spread income or fee income as appropriate). vii DAC adjustments comprises DAC amortisation for the year, excluding amounts related to short-term fluctuations, net of costs deferred in respect of new business. Analysis of pre-tax IFRS operating profit by source 2013 £m Asia On prior basis Adjustments Asia US UK Unallocated Total notes (ii),(iii) Spread income 125 (10 ) 115 730 228 — 1,073 Fee income 154 — 154 1,172 65 — 1,391 With-profits 47 — 47 — 251 — 298 Insurance margin 681 (2 ) 679 588 89 — 1,356 Margin on revenues 1,574 (12 ) 1,562 187 — 1,749 Expenses: Acquisition costs (1,015 ) — (1,015 ) (914 ) (110 ) — (2,039 ) Administration expenses (647 ) 13 (634 ) (670 ) (124 ) — (1,428 ) DAC adjustments 32 3 35 313 (14 ) — 334 Expected return on shareholder assets 58 — 58 24 134 — 216 Long-term business operating profit 1,009 (8 ) 1,001 1,243 706 — 2,950 Asset management operating profit 82 (8 ) 74 59 441 — 574 GI commission — — — — 29 — 29 Other income and expenditurenote (i) — — — — — (599 ) (599 ) Total operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 1,091 (16 ) 1,075 1,302 1,176 (599 ) 2,954 2012 £m Asia As previouslyreported Adjustments Asia US UK Unallocated Total notes (ii),(iii) Spread income 106 (13 ) 93 702 266 — 1,061 Fee income 141 — 141 875 61 — 1,077 With-profits 39 — 39 — 272 — 311 Insurance margin 594 (5 ) 589 399 39 — 1,027 Margin on revenues 1,453 (14 ) 1,439 — 216 — 1,655 Expenses: Acquisition costs (903 ) — (903 ) (972 ) (122 ) — (1,997 ) Administration expenses (583 ) 13 (570 ) (537 ) (128 ) — (1,235 ) DAC adjustments (28 ) 12 (16 ) 442 (8 ) — 418 Expected return on shareholder assets 43 — 43 55 107 — 205 Gain on China Life (Taiwan) shares 51 — 51 — — — 51 Long-term business operating profit 913 (7 ) 906 964 703 — 2,573 Asset management operating profit 75 (6 ) 69 39 371 — 479 GI commission — — — — 33 — 33 Other income and expenditurenote (i) — — — — — (565 ) (565 ) Total operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 988 (13 ) 975 1,003 1,107 (565 ) 2,520 161 Table of Contents 2011 £m Asia As previouslyreported Adjustments Asia US UK Unallocated Total notes (ii),(iii) Spread income 88 (16 ) 72 730 247 — 1,049 Fee income 131 — 131 680 59 — 870 With-profits 38 — 38 — 293 — 331 Insurance margin 477 6 483 232 27 — 742 Margin on revenues 1,199 (28 ) 1,171 — 226 — 1,397 Expenses: Acquisition costs (766 ) — (766 ) (890 ) (127 ) — (1,783 ) Administration expenses (503 ) 21 (482 ) (412 ) (128 ) — (1,022 ) DAC adjustments (14 ) 12 26 228 (5 ) — 249 Expected return on shareholder assets 26 26 83 91 — 200 Gain on China Life (Taiwan) shares — — — — — — Long-term business operating profit 704 (5 ) 699 651 683 — 2,033 Asset management operating profit 80 (5 ) 75 24 357 — 456 GI commission — — — — 40 — 40 RPI to CPI inflation measure change on defined benefit schemes — — — — — 42 42 Other income and expenditurenote (i) — — — — — (554 ) (554 ) Total operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 784 (10 ) 774 675 1,080 (512 ) 2,017 Notes (i) Including restructuring and Solvency II implementation costs. (ii) The 2013 analysis excludes the results of the held for sale life insurance business of Japan. The comparative results have been presented on a consistent basis. The results of Japan Life business excluded in 2013 were: profit of £3 million (2012: loss of £2 million, 2011: profit of £2 million). (iii) The Group has adopted new accounting standards on joint arrangements as described in Section A2. The only impact of the resulting change on the analysis above is to deduct the associated tax expense from the joint ventures’ operating profit by treating it as an administration expense. This contributed to an additional expense, as follows: — Long-term business—2013: £5 million (2012: £9 million, 2011: £3 million); and — Asset management business 2013: £8 million (2012: £6 million, 2011: £5 million). All other lines continue to include the Group’s share of the relevant part of the joint ventures’ pre-tax operating profit. 162 Table of Contents Margin analysis of long-term insurance business The following analysis expresses certain of the Group’s sources of operating profit as a margin of policyholder liabilities or other suitable driver. Details of the Group’s average policyholder liability balances are given in notes C4.1 (b), C4.1(c) and C4.1(d) in the consolidated Financial statements in Item 18. Total 2013 2012 2011 notes (iv),(v) Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin note (iii) note (ii) note (iii) note (ii) note (iii) note (ii) Long-term business £m £m bps £m £m bps £m £m bps Spread income 1,073 64,312 167 1,061 61,432 173 1,049 56,610 185 Fee income 1,391 96,337 144 1,077 78,433 137 870 67,882 128 With-profits 298 97,393 31 311 95,681 33 331 93,056 36 Insurance margin 1,356 1,027 742 Margin on revenues 1,749 1,655 1,397 Expenses: Acquisition costsnote(i) (2,039) 4,423 (46 )% (1,997) 4,195 (48 )% (1,783) 3,681 (48 )% Administration expenses (1,428) 169,158 (84 ) (1,235) 142,205 (87) (1,022) 124,492 (82) DAC adjustments 334 418 249 Expected return on shareholder assets 216 205 200 Gain on China Life (Taiwan) shares — 51 — Operating profit 2,950 2,573 2,033 Notes (i) The ratio for acquisition costs is calculated as a percentage of APE including with-profits sales. Acquisition costs include only those relating to shareholder-backed business. APE is defined under the section ‘EEV Basis and New Business Results in Item 3 of this annual report. (ii) Margin represents the operating return earned in the year as a proportion of the relevant class of policyholder liabilities excluding unallocated surplus. (iii) For UK and Asia, opening and closing policyholder liabilities have been used to derive an average balance for the year, as a proxy for average balances throughout the year. The calculation of average liabilities for Jackson is derived from month-end balances throughout the year as opposed to opening and closing balances only. Average liabilities for spread income are based on the general account liabilities to which spread income attaches. In addition, for REALIC (acquired in 2012), which are included in the average liability to calculate the administration expense margin, the calculation excludes the liabilities reinsured to third parties prior to the acquisition by Jackson. Average liabilities are adjusted for business acquisitions and disposals in the year. (iv) The Group has adopted new accounting standards on joint arrangements as described in note A2. The only impact of the resulting change on the analysis above is to deduct the associated tax expense from the joint ventures’ operating profit by treating it as an administration expense. The impact of this change is explained in note (iii), to the ‘Analysis of pre-tax IFRS operating profit by source’ table earlier in this section. All other lines continue to include the Group’s share of the relevant part of the joint ventures’ pre-tax operating profit. (v) The 2013 analysis excludes the results of the held for sale life insurance business of Japan in both the individual profit and average liability amounts shown in the table above. The comparative results have been presented on a consistent basis. 163 Table of Contents Asia 2013 2012 2011 note (ii) note (ii) Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin note (iv) note (iv) note (iv) Long-term business £m £m bps £m £m bps £m £m bps Spread income 115 7,446 154 93 5,978 155 72 4,816 150 Fee income 154 13,714 112 141 12,648 111 131 11,954 110 With-profits 47 13,263 35 39 12,990 30 38 11,775 32 Insurance margin 679 589 483 Margin on revenues 1,562 1,439 1,171 Expenses: Acquisition costsnote (i) (1,015 ) 2,125 (48 )% (903 ) 1,897 (48 )% (766 ) 1,660 (46 )% Administration expenses (634 ) 21,160 (300 ) (570 ) 18,626 (306 ) (482 ) 16,770 (288 ) DAC adjustments 35 (16 ) 26 Expected return on shareholder assets 58 43 26 Gain on China Life (Taiwan) shares — 51 — Operating profit 1,001 906 699 Notes (i) The ratio for acquisition costs is calculated as a percentage of APE including with-profits sales. Acquisition costs include only those relating to shareholder-backed business. APE is defined under the section ‘EEV Basis and New Business Results in Item 3 of this annual report. (ii) The Group has adopted new accounting standards on joint arrangements as described in note A2. The only impact of the resulting change on the analysis above is to deduct the associated tax expense from the joint ventures’ operating profit by treating it as an administration expense. The impact of this change is explained in note (iii) to the ‘Analysis of pre-tax IFRS operating profit by source’ table earlier in this section. All other lines continue to include the Group’s share of the relevant part of the joint ventures’ pre-tax operating profit. (iii) The analysis excludes the 2011, 2012 and 2013 results of the life insurance business of Japan in both the individual profit and the average liability amounts shown in the table above. (iv) Opening and closing policyholder liabilities, adjusted for corporate transactions, have been used to derive an average balance for the year, as a proxy for average balances throughout the year. Analysis of Asia operating profit drivers • Spread income has increased by £22 million from £93 million in 2012 to £115 million in 2013, an increase of 24 per cent. In 2012, spread income increased by £21 million from £72 million in 2011 to £93 million in 2012, an increase of 29 per cent. Both years increases predominantly reflect the growth of the Asian non-linked policyholder liabilities. • Fee income has increased from £131 million in 2011 to £141 million in 2012 and then to £154 million in 2013, broadly in line with the increase in movement in average unit-linked liabilities. • Insurance margin has increased from £483 million in 2011 to £589 million in 2012 and further to £679 million in 2013 predominantly reflecting the continued growth of the in-force book, which contains a relatively high proportion of risk-based products and management action on claims controls and pricing. Insurance margin includes non-recurring items of £52 million (2012: £48 million and 2011 :£38 million), reflecting items that are not expected to repeat in the future. • Margin on revenues has increased by £123 million from £1,439 million in 2012 to £1,562 million in 2013 primarily reflecting the higher premium income recognised in the year. The increase of £268 million from £1,171 million in 2011 to £1,439 million in 2012 reflecting the growth in the in-force book in that period. • Acquisition costs have increased from £766 million in 2011 to £903 million in 2012 and further to £1,015 million in 2013, broadly in line with the increase in sales. The analysis above uses shareholder 164 Table of Contents acquisition costs as a proportion of total APE. If with-profits sales were excluded from the denominator the acquisition cost ratio would become 65 per cent (2012: 63 per cent, 2011: 59 per cent;) reflecting changes to product and country mix. • Administration expenses have increased from £482 in 2011 to £570 million in 2012 and further to £634 million in 2013 as the business continues to expand. The administration expense ratio for 2013 remains broadly in line with prior periods at 300 basis points (2012: 306 basis points, 2011 288 basis points). 2012 was higher than 2011 due to changes in business mix. US 2013 2012 2011 Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin note (ii) note (ii) note (ii) Long-term business £m £m bps £m £m bps £m £m bps Spread income 730 29,648 246 702 29,416 239 730 28,274 258 Fee income 1,172 59,699 196 875 44,046 199 680 34,452 197 Insurance margin 588 399 232 Expenses Acquisition costsnote (i) (914 ) 1,573 (58 )% (972 ) 1,462 (66 )% (890 ) 1,275 (70 )% Administration expenses (670 ) 97,856 (68 ) (537 ) 75,802 (71 ) (412 ) 62,726 (66 ) DAC adjustments 313 442 228 Expected return on shareholder assets 24 55 83 Operating profit 1,243 964 651 Notes (i) The ratio for acquisition costs is calculated as a percentage of APE. APE is defined under the section ‘EEV Basis and New Business Results in Item 3 of this annual report. (ii) The calculation of average liabilities for Jackson is derived from month-end balances throughout the year as opposed to opening and closing balances only. Average liabilities for spread income are based on the general account liabilities to which spread income attaches. Average liabilities used to calculate the administrative expense margin exclude the REALIC liabilities reinsured to third parties prior to the acquisition by Jackson. Analysis of US operating profit drivers: • Spread income has increased by 4 per cent to £730 million in 2013 from £702 million in 2012. The reported spread margin increased to 246 basis points from 239 basis points in 2012 primarily as a result of lower crediting rates. The reported spread income decreased £28 million in 2012 from £730 million in 2011 as a result of downward pressure on yields caused by the low interest rate environment, the effect of which was only partly mitigated by reductions in crediting rates. In addition, spread income benefited from swap transactions previously entered into to more closely match the overall asset and liability duration. Excluding this effect, the spread margin would have been 182 basis points (2012: 186 basis points and 2011: 218 basis points). • Fee income has increased by 34 per cent to £1,172 million in 2013, compared to £875 million in 2012 and £680 million in 2011 primarily due to higher average separate account balances due to positive net cash flows from variable annuity business and market appreciation. Fee income margin has remained broadly consistent with the prior year at 196 basis points (2012: 199 basis points, 2011: 197 basis points) with the change in each year reflecting business mix. • Insurance margin represents operating profits from insurance risks, including variable annuity guarantees and other sundry items. Positive net flows into variable annuity business with life contingent and other guarantee fees, coupled with a benefit in the year from re-pricing actions, have increased the insurance 165 Table of Contents margin from £232 million in 2011 to £399 million in 2012 and further to £588 million in 2013. This includes a benefit due to the inclusion of the full year of operations for REALIC in 2013 and four months in 2012 (following the acquisition in September 2012), which contributed £188 million in 2013 and £87 million in 2012. • Acquisition costs, which are commissions and expenses incurred to acquire new business, including those that are not deferrable, have decreased by £58 million compared to 2012 due largely to the discontinuation of certain policy enhancement options on annuity business. As a percentage of APE, acquisition costs have decreased to 58 per cent for 2013, compared to 66 per cent in 2012 and 70 percent in 2011. This is due to the discontinuation of contract enhancements mentioned above and the continued increase in producers selecting asset-based commissions which are treated as an administrative expense in this analysis, rather than front end commissions. • Administration expenses increased to £670 million during 2013 compared to £537 million in 2012 and £412 million in 2011, primarily as a result of higher asset based commissions paid on increasing separate account balances. Asset-based commissions are paid upon policy anniversary dates and are treated as an administration expense in this analysis as opposed to a cost of acquisition and are offset by higher fee income. Excluding the trail commissions previously mentioned, the resulting administration expense ratio would be lower at 44 basis points (2012: 48 basis points, 2011: 46 basis points). • DAC adjustments decreased to £313 million in 2013 compared to £442 million in 2012 due to lower levels of current year acquisition costs being deferred and higher DAC amortisation being incurred following higher gross profits. In 2012 DAC adjustments increased to £442 million from £228 million reported for 2011, as 2011 was lowered by £190 million of accelerated DAC following the reversal of the benefit received in 2008 from the mean reversion formula. Certain acquisition costs are not fully deferrable, resulting in new business strain of £198 million for 2013 (2012: £174 million, 2011: 2011: £156 million) mainly reflecting the increase in sales in the period. Analysis of pre-tax operating profit before and after acquisition costs and DAC adjustments 2013 £m 2012 £m 2011 £m Acquisition costs Acquisition costs Acquisition costs Otheroperatingprofits Incurred Deferred Total Otheroperatingprofits Incurred Deferred Total Otheroperatingprofits Incurred Deferred Total Total operating profit before acquisition costs and DAC adjustments 1,844 1,844 1,494 1,494 1,313 1,313 Less new business strain (914 ) 716 (198 ) (972 ) 798 (174 ) (890 ) 734 (156 ) Other DAC adjustments—amortisation of previously deferred acquisition costs: Normal (485 ) (485 ) (412 ) (412 ) (316 ) (316 ) Decelerated (acceleration) 82 82 56 56 (190 ) (190 ) Total 1,844 (914 ) 313 1,243 1,494 (972 ) 442 964 1,313 (890 ) 228 651 166 Table of Contents UK 2013 2012 2011 Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin Profit AverageLiability Margin note (ii) note (ii) note (ii) Long-term business £m £m bps £m £m bps £m £m bps Spread income 228 27,218 84 266 26,038 102 247 23,520 105 Fee income 65 22,924 28 61 21,739 28 59 21,476 27 With-profits 251 84,130 30 272 82,691 33 293 81,281 36 Insurance margin 89 39 27 Margin on revenues 187 216 226 Expenses: Acquisition costsnote (i) (110 ) 725 (15 )% (122 ) 836 (15 )% (127 ) 746 (17 )% Administration expenses (124 ) 50,142 (25 ) (128 ) 47,777 (27 ) (128 ) 44,996 (28 ) DAC adjustments (14 ) (8 ) (5 ) Expected return on shareholders’ assets 134 107 91 Operating profit 706 703 683 Notes (i) The ratio for acquisition costs is calculated as a percentage of APE including with-profits sales. Acquisition costs include only those relating to shareholder-backed business. APE is defined under the section ‘EEV Basis and New Business Results in Item 3 of this annual report. (ii) Opening and closing policyholder liabilities have been used to derive an average balance for the year, as a proxy for average balances throughout the year. Analysis of UK operating profit drivers: • Spread income has reduced from £266 million in 2012 to £228 million in 2013 principally due to lower annuity sales in the year. In 2012, spread income had increase £19 million from £247 million in 2011 principally due to increased new business profits from higher annuity sales. • Fee income has increased in line with the increase in unit-linked liabilities. • With-profits income has decreased from £293 million in 2011 to £272 million in 2012 and further to £251 million in 2013 principally due to a 50 basis point reduction in annual bonus rates in both years. This has contributed to the reduction in the with-profits margin from 36 basis points in 2011 to 33 basis points in 2012 and 30 basis points in 2013. • Insurance margin has increased from £39 million in 2012 to £89 million in 2013. This increase arises from our improved profits from our protection business, the non-recurrence of the 2012 effect of strengthening longevity assumptions on our annuity book and £27 million positive impact of undertaking a longevity swap on certain aspects of the UK’s annuity back-book liabilities in the first half of 2013. • premium charges for expenses and other sundry net income received by the UK. 2013 income was £187 million, £29 million lower than in £216 million in 2012 (2011: £226 million) reflecting lower premium volumes in the years. • Acquisition costs as a percentage of new business sales in 2013 are in line with 2012 at 15 per cent. Lower commission payments from the implementation of the recommendations of the Retail Distribution Review have more than offset by the effect of lower bulk annuity sales in the year, which traditionally are less capital intensive. • The ratio above expresses the percentage of shareholder acquisition costs as a percentage of total APE sales. It is therefore impacted by the level of with-profit sales in the year. Acquisition costs as a percentage of shareholder—backed new business sales were 32 per cent in 2013 (2012: 33 per cent, 2011: 33 per cent). 167 Table of Contents • Administration expenses at £124 million for 2013 are £4 million lower than for 2012 due to lower project spend. • Expected return on shareholder assets has increased from £107 million in 2012 to £134 million in 2013 principally due to improved investment returns in the year and higher surplus assets. In 2012, expected return on shareholder assets increased £16 million from £91 million in 2011 principally due to higher IFRS shareholders’ funds. Asia operations—analysis of operating profit by territory Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns for Asia operations are analysed as follows: 2013 £m ActualExchange Rate**2012* £m ActualExchange Rate**’13 vs’12 ConstantExchange Rate**’13 vs’12 2011£m Hong Kong 101 88 15 % 13 % 69 Indonesia 291 260 12 % 23 % 212 Malaysia 137 118 16 % 17 % 103 Philippines 18 15 20 % 19 % 5 Singapore 219 206 6 % 5 % 167 Thailand 53 7 657 % 640 % 4 Vietnam 54 25 116 % 115 % 30 SE Asia Operations inc. Hong Kong 873 719 21 % 25 % 590 China 10 16 (38 )% (40 )% 12 India 51 50 2 % 10 % 44 Korea 17 16 6 % 2 % 17 Taiwan 12 18 (33 )% (34 )% 2 Other (4) (5) (20 )% (20 )% 1 Non-recurrent items:note (ii) 44 48 (8 )% (10 )% 38 Operating profit before gain on China Life of Taiwan 1,003 862 16 % 20 % 704 Gain on sale of stake in China Life of Taiwannote (ii) — 51 (100 )% (100 )% — Total insurance operationsnote (i) 1,003 913 10 % 13 % 704 Development expenses (2) (7) (71 )% (71 )% (5 ) Total long-term business operating profitnote (iii) 1,001 906 10 % 13 % 699 Eastspring Investments 74 69 7 % 9 % 75 Total Asia operations 1,075 975 10 % 13 % 774 * The 2012 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. ** Actual Exchange Rates are actual historical exchange rates for the specific accounting period, being the average rates over the period for the income statement and the closing rates for the balance sheet at the balance sheet date. Constant Exchange Rates results are calculated by translating prior year results using current period foreign currency exchange rates ie current period average rates for the income statements and current period closing rate for the balance sheet. Notes (i) Analysis of operating profit between new and in-force business 168 Table of Contents The result for insurance operations comprises amounts in respect of new business and business in-force as follows: 2013 £m 2012* £m 2011* £m New business strain† (15 ) (46 ) (70 ) Business in force 974 860 736 Non-recurrent items:note (ii) Other non-recurrent items 44 48 38 Gain on sale of stake in China Life of Taiwan — 51 — Total 1,003 913 704 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the change in accounting policy described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. † The IFRS new business strain corresponds to approximately 1 per cent of new business APE premiums for 2013 (2012: approximately 2 per cent of new business APE). The improvement is driven by a shift in overall sales mix to lower strain products and countries. The strain reflects the aggregate of the pre-tax regulatory basis strain to net worth after IFRS adjustments for deferral of acquisition costs and deferred income where appropriate. (ii) During 2012, the Group sold its 7.74 per cent stake in China Life (Taiwan) for £97 million crystallising a gain of £51 million. Other non-recurrent items of £44 million in 2013 (2012: £48 million; 2011: £38 million) represent a small number of items that are not anticipated to re-occur in subsequent years. (iii) To facilitate comparisons of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that reflect the Group’s retained operations, the results attributable to the held for sale Japan Life business are not included within the long-term business operating profit for Asia. The 2012 comparative results have also been adjusted. The Japan Life business contributed a profit of £3 million in 2013 (2012: loss of £(2) million). Analysis of asset management operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 2013 £m M&G Eastspring Investments PruCap US Total note (ii) note (ii) Operating income before performance-related fees 863 215 121 362 1,561 Performance-related fees 25 1 — — 26 Operating income(net of commission)note (i) 888 216 121 362 1,587 Operating expensenote (i) (505 ) (134 ) (75 ) (303 ) (1,017 ) Share of associate’s results 12 — — — 12 Group’s share of tax on joint ventures’ operating profit — (8 ) — — (8 ) Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 395 74 46 59 574 Average funds under management £ 233.8 bn £ 61.9 bn Margin based on operating income* 37 bps 35 bps Cost / income ratio** 59 % 62 % 169 Table of Contents 2012 £m M&G Eastspring Investments PruCap US Total note (ii) note (ii), (iii) Operating income before performance-related fees 734 201 120 296 1,351 Performance-related fees 9 2 — — 11 Operating income(net of commission)note (i) 743 203 120 296 1,362 Operating expensenote (i) (436 ) (128 ) (69 ) (257 ) (890 ) Share of associate’s results 13 — — — 13 Group’s share of tax on joint ventures’ operating profit — (6 ) — — (6 ) Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 320 69 51 39 479 Average funds under management £ 205.1 bn £ 55.0 bn Margin based on operating income* 36 bps 37 bps Cost / income ratio** 59 % 64 % 2011 £m M&G Eastspring Investments PruCap US Total note (ii) note (ii), (iii) Operating income before performance-related fees 666 196 122.00 249.00 1,233 Performance-related fees 13 6 — — 19 Operating income (net of commision)note (i) 679 202 122 249 1,252 Operating expense (404 ) (122 ) (66 ) (225 ) (817 ) Share of associate’s results 26 — — — 26 Group’s share of tax on joint ventures’ operating profit — (5 ) — — (5 ) Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 301 75 56 24 456 Average funds under management* £ 190.9 bn £ 51.4 bn Margin based on operating income* 35 bps 38 bps Cost / income ratio** 61 % 62 % (i) Operating income and expense includes the Group’s Share of contributions from Joint Ventures (but excludes any contribution from associates. In the incomes statement as showing in note B2 to the Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. (ii) M&G and Eastspring investments can be further analysed as follows: M&G Eastspring Investments Operating income before performance related fees Operating income before performance related fees Retail Marginof FUM* Institu-tional† Marginof FUM* Total Marginof FUM* Retail Marginof FUM* Institu-tional† Marginof FUM* Total Marginof FUM* £m bps £m bps £m bps £m bps £m bps £m bps 2013 550 89 313 18 863 37 2013 127 60 88 22 215 35 2012 438 91 297 19 734 36 2012 118 64 83 24 201 37 2011 396 97 270 18 666 35 2011 120 62 76 24 196 38 * Margin represents operating income before performance related fees as a proportion of the related funds under management (FUM). Monthly closing internal and external funds managed by the respective entity have been used to derive the average. Any funds held by the Group’s insurance operations which are managed by third parties outside of the Prudential Group are excluded from these amounts. ** Cost/income ratio represents cost as a percentage of operating income before performance related fees. † Institutional includes internal funds. (iii) The 2012 and 2011comparative results have been adjusted retrospectively from those previously published for the application of the new accounting standards described in note A2 following adoption of IFRS 11 for joint ventures group on the joint venture’s operating profit. This amount is excluded from the cost for cost/income ratio purposes. 170 Table of Contents Charge for short-term fluctuations in investment returns IFRS operating profit is based on longer-term investment return assumptions. The difference between actual investment returns recorded in the income statement and these longer-term returns is reported within short-term fluctuations in investment returns. In 2013 for our insurance operations these total negative £1,083 million comprising negative £204 million for Asia, negative £625 million in the US and negative £254 million in the UK. In Asia, the negative short-term fluctuations of £204 million primarily reflect net unrealised movements on bond holdings following rises in bond yields across the region during the year. Negative short-term fluctuations of £625 million in the US mainly represent the net unrealised value movement on derivatives held to manage the Group’s exposure to market movements following rises in equity values. Jackson hedges the guarantees offered under its variable annuity proposition on an economic basis and, thus, accepts a degree of variability in its IFRS results in the short term in order to achieve the appropriate economic result. The negative fluctuations of £254 million in the UK include net unrealised movements on fixed income assets supporting the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business. Short-term fluctuations in investment returns of other operations, were negative £27 million representing principally unrealised value movements on investments and foreign exchange items In 2012 short-term fluctuations in investment returns for our insurance operations of positive £100 million comprised of positive £54 million for Asia, negative £90 million in the US and positive £136 million in the UK. The positive short-term fluctuations of £54 million for our Asia operations in 2012 relates to unrealised gains on bond assets held across the region following the fall in long-term yields in the period. The combination of higher equity markets and lower market volatility in the US has reduced the technical reserves held for the variable annuity guarantees. This favourable effect was more than offset by the net unrealised value movement on derivative instruments held to manage the Group’s exposure to these guarantees, producing a net £90 million negative fluctuation in our US operation. The positive short-term fluctuations of £136 million for our UK operations primarily reflect net valuation gains on fixed income assets supporting the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business. Short-term fluctuations for other operations were positive £87 million. This primarily represents appreciation on Prudential Capital’s bond portfolio partially offset by net realised and unrealised losses in the year on derivatives held centrally to manage market risks. In 2011, short-term fluctuations in investment returns for the Group’s insurance operations comprised negative £93 million for Asia, negative £167 million for US operations and positive £159 million in the UK. The negative short-term fluctuations of £93 million for Prudential’s Asia operations in part reflected equity market falls in Taiwan and a partial reversal of unrealised gains recognised in prior years on the Group’s investment in China Life Insurance Company in Taiwan. Negative fluctuations of £167 million arising in Prudential’s US operation comprised negative £255 million from short-term fluctuations offset by positive £88 million relating to Jackson’s debt securities portfolio. These gains arose as a result of a high level of realised investment gains in 2011, following management’s credit risk reduction programme. The positive short-term fluctuations of £159 million for Prudential’s UK operations principally reflected net valuation gains arising in the period on fixed income assets backing the capital of the shareholder-backed annuity business. 171 Table of Contents Short-term fluctuations for other operations were negative £56 million representing unrealised losses on investments, principally on centrally held swaps to manage foreign exchange and certain macro-economic exposures of the Group. Amortisation of acquisition accounting adjustments This comprises principally the charge for the adjustments arising on the purchase of REALIC in 2012. Costs associated with the domestication of the Hong Kong branch On 1 January 2014, following consultation with policyholders of PAC and regulators and court approval, the Hong Kong branch of PAC was transferred to separate subsidiaries established in Hong Kong. The costs of enabling the domestication in 2013 were £35 million. Within the Group’s supplementary analysis of profit, these costs have been presented as a separate category of items excluded from operating profit based on longer-term investment returns. (Loss)/Profit attaching to held for sale Japan Life business To facilitate comparisons of operating profit based on longer-term investment returns that reflect the Group’s retained operations, the results attributable to the held for sale Japan Life business are included separately within the supplementary analysis of profit. See note D1 (c) to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Gain on dilution of Group’s holdings On 22 February 2012, M&G completed transactions to reduce its majority holding in PPM South Africa from 75 per cent to 49.99 per cent. Under IFRS the transactions give rise to a gain on dilution of £42 million in 2012, which has been excluded from the Group’s IFRS operating profit. Earnings per share 2013 2012* 2011* pence pence pence Basic EPS based on operating profit based on longer-term investment returns after tax and non-controlling interests 90.9 76.9 62.7 Basic EPS based on total profit after tax and non-controlling interests 52.8 85.1 57.1 * Comparatives adjusted for retrospective application of the new and amended standards as discussed in note A2 to consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 172 Table of Contents Explanation of Movements in Profits Before Shareholder Tax by Nature of Revenue and Charges The following table shows Prudential’s consolidated total revenue and consolidated total charges for the periods presented: 2013 £m 2012* £m 2011* £m Gross premiums earned(a) 30,502 29,113 24,837 Outward reinsurance premiums (658 ) (491 ) (417 ) Earned premiums, net of reinsurance 29,844 28,622 24,420 Investment return(b) 20,347 23,931 9,361 Other income 2,184 1,885 1,711 Total revenue, net of reinsurance 52,375 54,438 35,492 Benefits and claims (42,227 ) (44,116 ) (30,349 ) Outward reinsurers’ share of benefit and claims 622 259 746 Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds (1,549 ) (1,287 ) 897 Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance(c) (43,154 ) (45,144 ) (28,706 ) Acquisition costs and other expenditure(d) (6,861 ) (6,032 ) (4,717 ) Finance costs: interest on core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations (305 ) (280 ) (286 ) Remeasurement of carrying value of Japan life business classified as held for sale (120 ) — — Total charges, net of reinsurance (50,440 ) (51,456 ) (33,709 ) Share of profits from joint ventures and associates, net of related tax 147 135 76 Profit before tax (being tax attributable to shareholders’ and policyholders’ returns)** 2,082 3,117 1,859 Less tax charge attributable to policyholders’ returns (447 ) (370 ) 7 Profit before tax attributable to shareholders 1,635 2,747 1,866 Total tax charge attributable to policyholders and shareholders (736 ) (954 ) (408 ) Adjustment to remove tax charge attributable to policyholders’ returns 447 370 (7 ) Tax charge attributable to shareholders’ returns (289 ) (584 ) (415 ) Profit for the year 1,346 2,163 1,451 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 1,346 2,163 1,447 Non-controlling interests — — 4 Profit for the year 1,346 2,163 1,451 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards as described in note A2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. ** This measure is the formal profit before tax measure under IFRS but it is not the result attributable to shareholders. This is principally because the corporate taxes of the Group include those on the income of consolidated with-profits and unit-linked funds that, through adjustments to benefits, are borne by policyholders. These amounts are required to be included in the tax charge of the Company under IAS 12. Consequently, the profit before all taxes measure (which is determined after deducting the cost of policyholder benefits and movements in the liability for unallocated surplus of the PAC with-profits fund after adjusting for taxes borne by policyholders) is not representative of pre-tax profits attributable to shareholders. 173 Table of Contents (a) Gross earned premiums Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Asian operations 9,061 7,433 6,509 US operations 15,661 14,660 12,650 UK operations 5,780 7,020 5,678 Total 30,502 29,113 24,837 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Gross earned premiums for insurance operations totalled £30,502 million in 2013, up 5 per cent from £29,113 million in 2012. The increase of £1,389 million was driven by growth of £1,628 million in the Asian operations; £1,001 million in the US operations offset by a reduction of £1,240 million in the UK operations. Gross earned premiums for insurance operations totalled £29,113 million in 2012, up 17 per cent from £24,837 million in 2011. The increase of £4,276 million was driven by growth of £924 million in the Asian operations; £2,010 million in the US operations and £1,342 million in the UK operations. Asia Gross earned premiums increased by 22 per cent from £7,433 million in 2012 to £9,061 million in 2013 and by 14 per cent from £6,509 million in 2011 to £7,433 million in 2012. The premiums reflect the aggregate of single and recurrent premiums of new business sold in the year and premiums on annual business sold in previous years. The growth in earned premiums reflects increases for both factors. Asia’s rapidly growing middle classes remain a key growth driver for the retail financial services sector, particularly life insurance with an emphasis on protection. Operational highlights for 2013 reflect our continued focus on our ‘sweet spot’ markets where the macro-economic, demographic, competitive and regulatory environments enable us to capitalise on our strengths and use multiple distribution channels to provide long-term savings solutions to our customers. The ‘sweet spot’ markets comprise Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and the Philippines. Prudential Corporation Asia is well positioned in terms of its scale and diversity of distribution. Almost 460,000 agents produce around 60 per cent of sales and the remaining 40 per cent comes mainly from partnership distribution agreements that include access to 15,700 active bank branches throughout the region. At the core of our distribution model is our appreciation of the importance of face-to-face interaction and the need to provide customers with high quality advice. Our success with agency is driven by a relentless focus on quality and professionalism starting with the initial recruitment and training. We actively manage agency activity and agency productivity. We have exclusive distribution agreements with a number of banks including Standard Chartered Bank and UOB. In 2013 we also added Thanachart Bank, significantly increasing our distribution reach in Thailand. Success in bancassurance depends on the ability to activate relationships quickly and focus on long term customer solutions through in-branch, face-to-face advice based selling. United States Gross earned premiums increased by 7 per cent from £14,660 million in 2012 to £15,661 million in 2013, driven principally by the rapid progress of Elite Access, our variable annuity (VA) without guarantees launched in 2012. Excluding Elite Access, variable annuity sales were lower than 2012, which is the direct result of Jackson’s disciplined approach to the management of the economic cycle in the annuity market. 174 Table of Contents The success of Elite Access has helped increase the diversification of our product mix with a substantial portion of our 2013 variable annuities sales not featuring living benefit guarantees. Sales of variable annuities with living benefit guarantees are at their lowest since 2008. Gross earned premiums increased by 16 per cent from £12,650 million in 2011 to £14,660 million in 2012. Approximately 2 per cent of this increase was due to the contribution from REALIC following its acquisition in September 2012 . Excluding REALIC’s contribution, the increase was driven principally by the increase in sales of new single premium variable annuity business, including primarily the sale of our Elite Access product, and by modest institutional sales. Jackson continues to proactively balance value, volume, capital and balance sheet strength across our suite of product offerings which allows us to compete effectively throughout the economic cycle. United Kingdom Gross earned premiums for UK operations decreased from £7,020 million in 2012 to £5,780 million in 2013 driven principally by declines in sales of onshore bonds and individual annuities. The onset of the Retail Distribution Review has significantly impacted the timing of sales volumes in the UK retail investments markets over the last two years. For Prudential, this resulted in very strong sales of onshore bonds in 2012, due to heightened activity prior to the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review, while in 2013 volumes returned to levels consistent with 2011, the last ‘undisturbed’ year. In individual annuities, market volumes declined during the year against a strong 2012 comparative, due to increased activity in 2012 prior to the introduction of Gender Neutral Pricing and the Retail Distribution Review. Further, our annuity sales sourced from internal vestings decreased as more customers are opting to defer their retirement date, the effect of which is partly offset by higher average fund values. Gross earned premiums for UK operations increased from £5,678 million in 2011 to £7,020 million in 2012 primarily reflecting benefit from the focus on its core products, with-profits and individual annuities, which was partially offset by a reduction in sales of corporate pensions business, after exceptionally high volumes in 2011. The PruFund range, reintroduced in 2011 as described below comprised 75 per cent of with-profits bond sales, with 35 per cent higher sales than in 2011. Two bulk annuity buy-in insurance agreements were signed in 2012 totalling total new business premiums of £408 million (2011: single deal £336 million). Our performance in 2012 had been strong in a difficult market, which has been impacted by significant UK and EU regulatory change. This includes the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review (RDR), auto-enrolment for company pension schemes and Gender Neutral Pricing. In the UK, Prudential has adopted a focused strategy and competes selectively to help Britain’s ageing population convert their accumulated wealth into retirement income. We have a clear focus on writing profitable new business while generating cash sustainably and preserving our capital. We concentrate on areas in which we have a clear competitive advantage, namely individual annuities and with-profits products. (b) Investment return Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Asia operations 894 2,971 280 US operations 10,014 6,199 1,448 UK operations 9,515 14,775 7,738 Unallocated corporate and intra-group elimination (76 ) (14 ) (105 ) Total 20,347 23,931 9,361 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 175 Table of Contents Investment return principally comprises interest income, dividends, investment appreciation/depreciation (realised and unrealised gains and losses) on investments designated as fair value through profit and loss and realised gains and losses, including impairment losses, on Jackson’s debt securities designated as available-for-sale. Movements in unrealised appreciation/depreciation of Jackson’s debt securities designated as available for-sale are not reflected in investment return but are recorded in other comprehensive income. Allocation of investment return between policyholders and shareholders Investment return is attributable to policyholders and shareholders. A key feature of the accounting policies under IFRS is that the investment return included in the income statement relates to all investment assets of the Group, irrespective of whether the return is attributable to shareholders, or to policyholders or the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, the latter two of which have no net impact on shareholders’ profit. The table below provides a breakdown of the investment return for each regional operation attributable to each type of business. 2013 £m 2012* £m 2011* £m Asia operations Policyholder returns Assets backing unit-linked liabilities 542 1,207 (794 ) With-profits business 82 1,208 756 624 2,415 (38 ) Shareholder returns 270 556 318 Total 894 2,971 280 US operations Policyholder returns Policyholder returns—Assets held to back (separate account) unit-linked liabilities 10,254 5,217 (869 ) Shareholder returns (240 ) 982 2,317 Total 10,014 6,199 1,448 UK operations Policyholder returns Scottish Amicable Insurance Fund (SAIF) 2,604 791 321 Assets held to back unit-linked liabilities 585 2,320 208 With-profits fund (excluding SAIF) 5,761 8,390 4,100 8,950 11,501 4,629 Shareholder returns Prudential Retirement Income Limited (PRIL) 380 2,196 2,153 Other business 185 1,078 956 565 3,274 3,109 Total 9,515 14,775 7,738 Unallocated corporate Shareholder returns (76 ) (14 ) (105 ) Group Total Policyholder returns 19,828 19,133 3,722 Shareholder returns 519 4,798 5,639 Total 20,347 23,931 9,361 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 176 Table of Contents Policyholder returns The returns as shown in the table above, are delineated between those returns allocated to policyholders and those allocated to shareholders. In making this distinction, returns allocated to policyholders are those from investments in which shareholders have no direct economic interest, namely: • unit-linked business in the UK, Asia and SAIF in the UK, for which the investment return is wholly attributable to policyholders; • separate account business of US operations, the investment return of which is also wholly attributable to policyholders; and • with-profits business (excluding SAIF) in the UK and Asia (in which the shareholders’ economic interest, and the basis of recognising IFRS basis profits, is restricted to a share of the actuarially determined surplus for distribution (in the UK 10 per cent)). Except for this surplus the investment return of the with-profits funds is attributable to policyholders (through the asset-share liabilities) or the unallocated surplus, which is accounted for as a liability under IFRS 4. The investment return related to the types of business above does not impact shareholders’ profits directly. However, there is an indirect impact, for example, investment-related fees or the effect of investment return on the shareholders’ share of the cost of bonuses of with-profits funds. Investment returns for unit-linked and similar products have reciprocal impact on benefits and claims, with a decrease in market returns on the attached pool of assets affecting policyholder benefits on these products. Similarly for with-profits funds there is a close correlation between increases or decreases in investment returns and the level of combined charge for policyholder benefits and movement on unallocated surplus that arises from such returns. Shareholder returns For shareholder-backed non-participating business of the UK (comprising PRIL and other non-linked non-participating business) and of the Asian operations, the investment return is not directly attributable to policyholders and therefore does impact shareholders’ profit directly. However, it should be noted that for UK shareholder-backed annuity business, principally PRIL, where the durations of asset and liability cash flows are closely matched, the discount rate applied to measure liabilities to policyholders (under ‘grandfathered’ UK GAAP and under IFRS 4) reflects movements in asset yields (after allowances for the future defaults) of the backing portfolios. Therefore, the net impact on the shareholders’ profits of the investment return of the assets backing liabilities of the UK shareholder-backed annuity business is after taking into account the consequential effect on the movement in policyholder liabilities. Changes in shareholder investment returns for US operations reflect primarily movements in the investment income, movements in the value of derivative instruments and realised gains and losses. The derivatives are held to manage general account assets and liabilities, and variable annuity guarantees under a dynamic hedging programme. Separately reflecting Jackson’s types of business an allocation is made to policyholders through the application of crediting rates. The majority of the investments held to back the US general account business are debt securities for which the available-for-sale designation is applied for IFRS basis reporting. Under this designation the return included in the income statement reflects the aggregate of investment income and realised gains and losses (including impairment losses). However, movements in unrealised appreciation or depreciation are recognised in other comprehensive income. The return on these assets is attributable to shareholders. 177 Table of Contents Reasons for year-on-year changes in investment returns With two exceptions, all Prudential investments are carried at fair value in the statement of financial position with fair value movements, which are volatile from year to year, recorded in the income statement. The exceptions are for: (i) debt securities in the general account of US operations, the return on which is attributable to shareholders and which are accounted for on an IAS 39 available-for-sale basis. In this respect realised gains and losses (including impairment losses) are recorded in the income statement, while movements in unrealised appreciation (depreciation) are booked as other comprehensive income. As a result, the changes in unrealised fair value of these debt securities are not reflected in Prudential’s investment return in the income statement. The unrealised gains and losses in the income statement of US operations primarily arise on the assets of the US separate account business; and (ii) loans and receivables, which are carried at amortised cost. Subject to the effect of these two exceptions, the year-on-year changes in investment return primarily reflect the generality of overall market movements for equities, debt securities and, in the UK, for investment property. In addition, for Asian and US separate account business, foreign exchange rates affect the sterling value of the translated income. Consistent with the treatment applied for other items of income and expenditure, investment returns for overseas operations are translated at average exchange rates. Asia The table below provides an analysis of investment return attributable to Asia operations for the years presented: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Interest/dividend income (including foreign exchange gains and losses) 772 593 443 Investment appreciation (depreciation) 122 2,378 (163 ) Total 894 2,971 280 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In Prudential’s Asia operations, debt securities accounted for 53 per cent, 56 per cent and 55 per cent of the total investment portfolio as at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, with equities comprising 41 per cent; 35 per cent and 35 per cent respectively. The remaining 6 per cent, 9 per cent and 10 per cent of the total investment portfolio, respectively, primarily comprised loans and deposits with credit institutions. Investment return decreased from £2,971 million in 2012 to £894 million in 2013. This decrease was due to an increase of £179 million in interest and dividend income (including foreign exchange gains and losses) and a decrease of £2,256 million in investment appreciation. The decrease of £2,256 million in investment appreciation was driven primarily by adverse movements on debt securities values following rises in bond yields across the region during the year and less favourable equity market movements compared to 2012. 178 Table of Contents United States The table below provides an analysis of investment return attributable to US operations for the periods presented: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012 2011 Investment return of investments backing US separate account liabilities 10,254 5,217 (869 ) Other investment return (240 ) 982 2,317 Total 10,014 6,199 1,448 In the US, investment return increased from £6,199 million in 2012 to £10,014 million in 2013. This £3,815 million favourable change arose from an increase of £5,037 million in the investment return on investments backing variable separate account liabilities from a gain of £5,217 million in 2012 to £10,254 million in 2013 and a reduction in other investment return from £982 million to negative £240 million. The primary driver for the increase in investment return on investments backing variable annuity separate account liabilities as compared to 2012 was favourable movements in the US equity markets in 2013 on a larger separate account asset balance. The decrease of £1,222 million in other investment return reflects the value movements in derivatives held to manage interest rate and equity risk exposures as discussed in note B1.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In the US, investment return increased from £1,448 million in 2011 to £6,199 million in 2012. This £4,751 million favourable change resulted despite a £1,335 million decrease in other investment return, as this was more than offset by an increase of £6,086 million in the investment return on investments backing variable separate account liabilities from a loss of £869 million in 2011 to £5,217 million in 2012. The primary driver for the increase in investment return on investments backing variable annuity separate account liabilities as compared to 2011 was favourable movements in the US equity markets in 2012 on a larger separate account asset balance. The decrease of £1,335 million in other investment return was mainly accounted for by the value movements in derivatives held to manage interest rate and equity risk exposures as discussed in note B1.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. United Kingdom The table below provides an analysis of investment return attributable to UK operations for the periods presented: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Interest/dividend income 6,385 6,351 6,126 Investment appreciation and other investment return 3,130 8,424 1,612 Total 9,515 14,775 7,738 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. In Prudential’s UK operations, equities accounted for 25 per cent, 24 per cent and 25 per cent of the total investment portfolio as at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Debt securities comprised 54 per cent, 56 per cent and 55 per cent, respectively, with investment properties accounting for 7 per cent, 7 per cent and 8 per cent of the total investment portfolio in each respective year. The remaining 14 per cent, 13 per cent and 12 per cent of the total investment portfolio as at 31 December 2013 , 2012 and 2011, respectively, related to loans, deposits with credit institutions, investments in partnerships in investment pools and derivative assets. Within debt securities of £84 billion (2012: £86 billion; 2011: £80 billion) as at 31 December 2013, 71 per cent (2012: 73 per cent; 2011: 70 per cent) was comprised of corporate debt securities 179 Table of Contents Interest and dividend income increased, by £34 million from £6,351 in 2012 to £6,385 million in 2013, and by £225 million from £6,126 million in 2011 to £6,351 million in 2012. The decrease in investment appreciation and other investment return of £5,294 million from £8,424 million in 2012 to £3,130 million in 2013 principally reflects value movement on debt securities due to rising bond yields. The increase in the investment appreciation and other investment return of £6,812 million from £1,612 million in 2011 to £8,424 million in 2012 primarily reflected the favourable UK financial markets’ performance during 2012. The increase mainly reflected movements on equities and debt securities. Unallocated corporate and intragroup elimination Investment return for unallocated corporate and intragroup elimination was negative £76 million in 2013 compared to the negative £14 million in 2012 and negative £105 million in 2011. (c) Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Asia operations (6,930 ) (7,570 ) (4,654 ) US operations (23,706 ) (18,711 ) (12,651 ) UK operations (12,518 ) (18,863 ) (11,401 ) Total (43,154 ) (45,144 ) (28,706 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Benefits and claims represent payments, including final bonuses, to policyholders in respect of maturities, surrenders and deaths plus changes in technical provisions (which primarily represents the movement in amounts owed to policyholders). Benefits and claims are amounts attributable to policyholders. The movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the transfer to (from) the unallocated surplus each year through a charge (credit) to the income statement of the annual excess (shortfall) of income over expenditure of the with-profits funds, after declaration and attribution of the cost of bonuses to policyholders and shareholders. The underlying reasons for the year-on-year changes in benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus in each of Prudential’s regional operations are changes in the incidence of claims incurred, increases or decreases in policyholders’ liabilities, and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds. Total benefit and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds decreased by £1,990 million in 2013 to a charge of £43,154 million compared to a charge of £45,144 million in 2012 and a charge of £28,706 in 2011. The amounts of this year on year charge attributable to each of the underlying reasons as stated above are shown below. Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds net of reinsurance can be further analysed as follows. Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Claims incurred (21,881 ) (19,230 ) (17,639 ) Increase in policyholder liabilities (19,724 ) (24,627 ) (11,964 ) Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds (1,549 ) (1,287 ) 897 Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus (43,154 ) (45,144 ) (28,706 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. 180 Table of Contents The charge for benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus, net of reinsurance of £43,154 million (2012: £45,144 million; 2011: £28,706 million) shown in the table above includes the effect of accounting for investment contracts without discretionary participation features (as defined by IFRS 4) in accordance with IAS 39 to reflect the deposit nature of the arrangement. Additionally the movement in policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds represents the amount recognised in the income statement and therefore excludes the effect of foreign exchange translation differences on the policyholder liabilities of foreign subsidiaries and the movement in liabilities arising on acquisition and disposals of subsidiaries in the year. The principal driver for variations in amounts allocated to policyholders is changes to investment return reflected in the statement of financial position measurement of liabilities for Prudential’s with-profits, SAIF and unit-linked policies (including US separate account business). In addition, for those liabilities under IFRS, in particular, liabilities relating to the UK annuity business (principally PRIL), where the measurement reflects the yields on assets backing the liabilities, the year to year changes in investment yields also contribute significantly to variations in the measurement of policyholder liabilities. The principal driver for variations in the change in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds is the value movements on the investment assets of the with-profits funds to the extent not reflected in policyholder liabilities. The principal variations are for the increases or decreases in policyholder liabilities and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds for each regional operation are discussed below. Asia In 2013, benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds totalled £6,930 million, representing a decrease of £640 million compared to the charge totalled £7,570 million in 2012. In 2012, benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds totalled £7,570 million, representing an increase of £2,916 million compared to the charge of £4,654 million in 2011. The amounts of the year-on-year change attributable to each of the underlying reasons are shown below: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Claims incurred (3,976 ) (3,130 ) (2,858 ) Increase in policyholder liabilities (2,699 ) (3,922 ) (2,336 ) Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds (255 ) (518 ) 540 Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus (6,930 ) (7,570 ) (4,654 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. The growth in the policyholder liabilities in Asia over the three-year period partially reflected the increase due to the strong growth in new business in the region. The variations in the increases or decreases in policyholder liabilities in individual years were, however, primarily due to movement in investment returns. This was as a result of asset value movements that are reflected in the unit value of the unit-linked policies, which represent a significant proportion of the Asian operations’ business. In addition, the policyholder liabilities of the Asia operations’ with-profits policies also fluctuated with the investment performance of the funds. Accordingly, due to the positive market returns in 2013 and 2012, there was a related increase in the charge for benefits and claims. Conversely, due to a fall in market returns in 2011, there was a year-on-year related decrease in the charge for benefits and claims. 181 Table of Contents United States Except for institutional products and certain term annuities which are classified as investment products under IAS 39 for the purposes of IFRS reporting, deposits into the US operations’ products are recorded as premiums, withdrawals and surrenders and are included in benefits and claims, and the resulting net movement is recorded under other reserve movements within benefits and claims. Benefits and claims also include interest credited to policyholders in respect of deposit products less fees charged on these policies. In 2013, the accounting charge for benefits and claims increased by £4,995 million to £23,706 million compared to £18,711 million in 2012. In 2012, the accounting charge for benefits and claims increased by £6,060 million to £18,711 million compared to £12,651 million in 2011. The amounts of the year-on-year change attributable to each of the underlying reasons are shown below: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012 2011 Claims incurred (7,560 ) (5,843 ) (5,277 ) Increase in policyholder liabilities (16,146 ) (12,868 ) (7,374 ) Benefits and claims (23,706 ) (18,711 ) (12,651 ) The movements year-on-year in the claims incurred for the US operations as shown in the table above also included the effects of translating the US dollar results into pounds sterling at the average exchange rates for the relevant years. The charges in each year comprise amounts in respect of variable annuity and other business. For variable annuity business, there are two principal factors that contribute to the variations in the charge, and for which the fluctuations in the years presented broadly offset each other. First, the investment return on the assets backing the variable annuity separate account liabilities changed to a £10,254 million credit in 2013 from a £5,217 million credit in 2012 and a £869 million debit in 2011 as shown in the section ‘Investment return (b) United States’ above. The second principal effect is the growth of the variable annuity business in force. This can be illustrated by the net cash flows of the US insurance operations’ variable annuity separate account liabilities in note C4.1(c) ’Reconciliation of movement in policyholder liabilities’ to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18 of this annual report. The net flows of the variable annuity separate account liabilities shown in that note for 2013 were £7,986 million as compared with £7,808 million for 2012 and £6,978 million for 2011. 182 Table of Contents United Kingdom Overall, benefits and claims and the movement in unallocated surplus recorded in the income statement was a charge of £12,518 million in 2013 compared to a £18,863 million charge in 2012 and a £11,401 million charge in 2011. The year-on-year changes attributable to each of the underlying reasons are shown below, together with a further analysis of the amounts included in respect of the movements in policyholder liabilities by type of business: Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Claims incurred (10,346 ) (10,642 ) (10,103 ) Decrease/(increase) in policyholder liabilities SAIF 780 665 1,198 PRIL 155 (1,867 ) (1,788 ) Unit-linked and other non-participating business (1,616 ) (2,261 ) (451 ) With-profits (excluding SAIF) (197 ) (3,989 ) (614 ) (878 ) (7,452 ) (1,655 ) Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds (1,294 ) (769 ) 357 Benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus (12,518 ) (18,863 ) (11,401 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Claims incurred in the UK operations in 2013 was £10,346 million, compared to £10,642 million in 2012 and £10,103 million in 2011. As has been explained above, the principal driver for variations in amounts allocated to the policyholders is changes to investment returns. In aggregate, as a result of the less positive market returns in 2013 compared to 2012 there has been a corresponding impact on benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds in the period, moving from a net charge of £18,863 million in 2012 to a net charge of £12,518 million in 2013. Conversely, the market returns in 2012 were more positive compared to 2011, moving from a net charge of £11,401 million in 2011 to a net charge of £18,863 million in 2012. SAIF is a ring-fenced fund with no new business written. The decrease in policyholder liabilities in SAIF reflects the underlying decreasing policyholder liabilities as the liabilities run off. The variations from year to year are, however, affected by the market valuation movement of the investments held by SAIF, which are wholly attributable to policyholders. For PRIL, the increases in policyholder liabilities reflect the effect of altered investment yield reflected in the discount rate applied in the measurement of the liabilities, together with other factors such as changes in premium income for new business and altered assumptions. For unit-linked business, the variations in the increases in the policyholder liabilities were primarily due to the movement in the market value of the unit-linked assets as reflected in the unit value of the unit-linked policies. The part of Prudential where variations in amounts attributed to policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus are most significant is the UK with-profits business (excluding SAIF). As explained in note C4.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18, the liabilities for UK with-profits policyholders are determined on an asset-share basis that incorporates the accumulation of investment returns and all other items of income and 183 Table of Contents outgoings that are relevant to each policy type. Accordingly, the movement in policyholder liabilities in the income statement will fluctuate with the investment return of the fund. Separately, the excess of assets over liabilities of the fund represents the unallocated surplus. This surplus will also fluctuate on a similar basis to the market value movement on the investment assets of the fund with the movement reflected in the income statement. In addition, other items of income and expenditure affect the level of movement in policyholder liabilities (to the extent reflected in assets shares) and unallocated surplus. The correlation between total net income (loss) before benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus, on the one hand, and the (charge) credit for benefits and claims and movement in unallocated surplus, on the other, for the UK component of the PAC with-profits fund (excluding SAIF) is illustrated numerically by the table below for each of the years presented. In summary, the correlation principally arises due to the following factors: (a) Investment return is included in full in the income statement and is attributable either to contracts or unallocated surplus. (b) Investment return, to the extent attributable to contracts, directly affects asset-share liabilities, which are reflected in the income statement through changes in policyholder liabilities. (c) Investment return, to the extent attributable to unallocated surplus, forms the majority part of the movement in such surplus in the income statement. Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Earned premiums, net of reinsurance(i) 3,801 4,558 3,404 Investment return 5,757 8,390 4,100 Other income 52 39 17 Acquisition costs and other expenditure (1,025 ) (907 ) (601 ) Share of profit from joint ventures 88 27 25 Tax charge (308 ) (286 ) (61 ) Total net income before benefit and claims and movement in unallocated surplus, net of reinsurance 8,365 11,821 6,884 Charges of: Claims incurred (6,681 ) (6,857 ) (6,411 ) (Increase)/decrease in policyholder liabilities(i) (197 ) (3,989 ) (614 ) Movement in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds (1,294 ) (769 ) 357 Benefits and claims and movements in unallocated surplus of with-profits funds, net of reinsurance (8,172 ) (11,615 ) (6,668 ) Shareholders’ profit after tax 193 206 216 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Note (i) For the purposes of presentation in Prudential’s consolidated financial information, references to the UK with-profits fund also include, for convenience, the amounts attaching to Prudential’s UK Defined Charge Participating Sub-fund which includes the with-profits annuity business transferred to Prudential from the Equitable Life Assurance Society on 31 December 2007. Profits to shareholders emerge on a ‘charges less expenses’ basis and policyholders are entitled to 100 per cent of the investment earnings. Separately, the cost of current year bonuses which is attributable to policyholders is booked within the movement in policyholder liabilities. One-ninth of the declared cost of policyholders’ bonus is attributable to shareholders and represents the shareholders’ profit. Both of these amounts, by comparison with the investment return, movement in other constituent elements of the change in policyholder liabilities and the change in unallocated surplus, are relatively stable from period to period. 184 Table of Contents In 2013, the income statement of the UK component of the PAC with-profits funds was charged with a transfer of £1,294 million from the unallocated surplus. This transfer, together with a corresponding transfer in the unallocated surplus of the Asia with-profits funds and the effect of exchange rate movements, resulted in an increase in Prudential’s unallocated surplus from £10.6 billion in 2012 to £12.1 billion in 2013. This movement reflected the net effect of changes in the value of assets, liabilities (incorporating policyholder bonuses and other elements of asset shares attributable to policyholders), and the shareholders’ share of the cost of bonuses for 2013. The surplus for distribution in future years will reflect the aggregate of policyholder bonuses and the cost of bonuses attributable to shareholders, which is currently set at 10 per cent. The policyholder bonuses comprise the aggregate of regular and final bonuses. When determining policy payouts, including final bonuses, Prudential considers asset shares of specimen policies. Prudential does not take into account the surplus assets of the long-term fund, or the investment return, in calculating asset shares. Asset-shares are used in the determination of final bonuses, together with treating customers fairly, the need to smooth claim values and payments from year to year and competitive considerations. In the unlikely circumstance that the depletion of excess assets within the long-term fund was such that Prudential’s ability to treat its customers fairly was adversely affected, it might become necessary to restrict the annual distribution to shareholders or to contribute shareholders’ funds to the long-term funds to provide financial support. The factors that the PAC Board considers in setting bonus rates are described in more detail in the section headed ‘With-profits products’ in Item 4, in the section headed ‘United Kingdom—Basis of profits—Bonus Rates’ in Item 5 and are summarised in note C4.1(d)(ii) to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. (d) Acquisition costs and other expenditure Year ended 31 December £m 2013 2012* 2011* Asia operations (2,208 ) (1,938 ) (1,523 ) US operations (1,919 ) (1,771 ) (1,445 ) UK operations (2,790 ) (2,326 ) (1,857 ) Unallocated corporate and intra-group elimination 56 3 108 Total (6,861 ) (6,032 ) (4,717 ) * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Total acquisition costs and other expenditure of £6,861 million in 2013 were 14 per cent higher than the £6,032 million incurred in 2012. Total acquisition costs and other expenditure of £6,032 million in 2012 were 28 per cent higher than the £4,717 million incurred in 2011. Asia Total acquisition costs and other expenditure for Asia in 2013 were £2,208 million, an increased cost of £270 million compared to £1,938 million in 2012. This increase was primarily due to an increase of £121 million in acquisition costs, net of change in deferred acquisition costs and an increase of £131 million in other operating expenses as the business continues to expand. 185 Table of Contents Total acquisition costs and other expenditure for Asia in 2012 were £1,938 million, an increase of £415 million or 27 per cent over 2011. This increase was primarily due to increased acquisition costs, net of change in deferred acquisition costs and increases in other operating expenses and in the charge for investment gains attributable to external unit-holders relating to investment funds managed on behalf of third parties which are consolidated but have no recourse to Prudential. United States Total acquisition costs and other expenditure for the US of £1,919 million in 2013 represented an increase of £148 million over the amount of £1,771 million in 2012. The £1,771 million in 2012 in turn represented an increase of £326 million from the £1,445 million in 2011. The year on year movements reflected increases in acquisition costs, net of change in deferred acquisition costs and in operating expenses. Acquisition costs increased in absolute terms year on year over the three year period due largely to increases in sales volume. The DAC amortisation charge for the US decreased in 2013 to £403 million from £506 million in 2012. From 2011 to 2012, the DAC amortisation charge for the US increased to £356 million from £619 million. The 2013 DAC amortisation comprises core charge of £485 million (2012: £412 million; 2011: £316 million) and a decelerated charge of £82 million (2012: decelerated charge of £56 million; 2011: accelerated charge of £190 million). The higher core charge year on year is in line with the increase in fee income and spread profits. The £190 million accelerated charge in 2011 represented the reversal of the benefit received in 2008 from the use of the mean reversion formula. Other operating expenses increased primarily due to higher asset based commissions paid on the growing separate account balance. United Kingdom Total acquisition costs and other expenditure for the UK increased by 20 per cent from £2,326 million in 2012 to £2,790 million in 2013. This increase arose primarily from the increases in the charge for investment gains relating to funds managed on behalf of third parties which are consolidated but have no recourse to the Group by £560 million from £179 million in 2012 to £739 million in 2013 and increases in the underlying operating expenses of M&G. These increases are partially offset by a decrease in acquisition costs, net of change in deferred acquisition costs from £479 million in 2012 to £351 million in 2013. The decrease in acquisition costs partly reflects lower commission payments from the implementation of the recommendations of the UK Retail Distribution Review. Total UK acquisition costs and other expenditure were £2,326 million in 2012 compared to £1,857 million in 2011. The increase of £469 million primarily reflects increased operating expenses. Unallocated corporate and intra-group elimination Other net expenditure of a credit of £56 million in 2013, a credit of £3 million in 2012 and a credit of £108 million in 2011 comprises both the other expenditure of the unallocated corporate and elimination of intragroup income and expenses. 186 Table of Contents IFRS Shareholders’ Funds Movement on Shareholders’ Funds The following table sets forth a summary of the movement in Prudential’s IFRS shareholders’ funds for 2013, 2012 and 2011: 2013 £m 2012* £m 2011* £m Operating profit based on longer-term investment returns 2,954 2,520 2,017 Items excluded from operating profit (1,319 ) 227 (151 ) Total profit before tax 1,635 2,747 1,866 Tax, discontinued operations and non-controlling interests (289 ) (584 ) (419 ) Profit for the year 1,346 2,163 1,447 Exchange movements, net of related tax (255 ) (216 ) (105 ) Unrealised gains and losses on Jackson securities classified as available for sale, net of related changes to deferred acquisition costs and tax** (1,034 ) 387 349 Shareholders’ share of actuarial and other gains and losses on defined pension schemes (48 ) 34 (32 ) Dividends (781 ) (655 ) (642 ) New share capital subscribed 6 17 17 Other 57 65 9 Net (decrease) increase in shareholders’ funds (709 ) 1,795 1,043 Shareholders’ funds at beginning of the period 10,359 8,564 7,521 Shareholders’ funds at end of the year 9,650 10,359 8,564 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. ** Net of related changes to deferred acquisition costs and tax. During 2013 most equity markets recorded strong positive movements, although volatility increased through the period on speculation about the timing of the slowdown in the US Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing programme. This also led to a sharp rise in US yields to 3.1 per cent at 31 December 2013, compared to 1.8 per cent at the end of 2012, with yields in many other global markets following higher. Higher yields generate adverse value movements on our holdings of fixed income securities which have given rise to negative short-term investment variances in some of our operations. However, these higher yields are also expected to generate higher investment returns going forward. In addition, fears of a broad economic slowdown returned during the year, particularly in emerging markets, as a consequence of the anticipated end to US quantitative easing. As a result, several developing countries have experienced marked currency depreciation against the major global currencies. While Prudential is well diversified by currency, this effect, combined with the appreciation of UK Sterling in 2013 on better economic data, has a translational impact on conversion of local balance sheets to UK Sterling. Under IFRS, the effect of potential higher future returns will only be recognised as they are earned, meaning there is no offset available against short term investment variances in the current period. IFRS shareholders’ funds at 31 December 2013 of £9.7 billion were, therefore, 7 per cent lower than at the previous year end (31 December 2012: £10.4 billion). 187 Table of Contents Other results based information Funds under Management (a) Summarynote (i) 2013 £bn 2012* £bn Business area: Asia operations 38.0 38.9 US operations 104.3 91.4 UK operations 157.3 154.0 Prudential Group funds under management 299.6 284.3 External fundsnote (ii) 143.3 121.4 Total funds under management 442.9 405.7 * The 2012 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2. Notes (i) Including Group’s share of assets managed by joint ventures. (ii) External funds shown above as at 31 December 2013 of £143.3 billion (2012: £121.4 billion) comprise £148.2 billion (2012: £133.5 billion) of funds managed by M&G and Eastspring Investments as shown in note (c) below less £4.9 billion (2012: £12.1 billion) that are classified within Prudential Group’s funds. The £148.2 billion (2012: £133.5 billion) investment products comprise £143.9 billion (2012: £129.5 billion) plus Asia Money Market Funds of £4.3 billion (2012: £4.0 billion). (b) Prudential Group funds under management—analysis by business area Asia operations £bn US operations £bn UK operations £bn Total £bn 2013 2012* 2013 2012* 2013 2012* 2013 2012* Investment properties† — — — 0.1 11.7 10.6 11.7 10.7 Equity securities 14.4 12.7 66.0 49.6 39.8 36.3 120.2 98.6 Debt securities 18.6 20.1 30.3 33.0 84.0 85.8 132.9 138.9 Loans and receivables 0.9 1.0 6.4 6.2 5.3 5.5 12.6 12.7 Other investments and deposits 0.9 1.8 1.6 2.5 16.0 15.5 18.5 19.8 Total included in statement of financial position 34.8 35.6 104.3 91.4 156.8 153.7 295.9 280.7 Internally managed funds held in insurance join ventures’ 3.2 3.3 — — 0.5 0.3 3.7 3.6 Total Prudential Group funds under management 38.0 38.9 104.3 91.4 157.3 154.0 299.6 284.3 * The 2012 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2. † As included in the investments section of the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 December 2013, except for £0.3 billion (2012: £0.1 billion) investment properties which are held for sale or occupied by the Group and, accordingly under IFRS, are included in other statement of financial position captions. 188 Table of Contents (c) Investment products—external funds under management 2013 £m 1 Jan2013 Marketgrossinflows Redemptions Marketexchangetranslationand othermovements 31 Dec2013 Eastspring Investments 21,634 74,206 (72,111 ) (1,507 ) 22,222 M&G 111,868 40,832 (31,342 ) 4,631 125,989 Group total 133,502 115,038 (103,453 ) 3,124 148,211 Note Including Asia Money Market Funds at 31 December 2013 of £4.3 billion (2012: £4.0 billion). 2012 £m 1 Jan2012 Marketgrossinflows Redemptions Marketexchangetranslationand othermovements 31 Dec2012 Eastspring Investments 19,221 60,498 (59,098 ) 1,013 21,634 M&G 91,948 36,463 (19,582 ) 3,039 111,868 Group total 111,169 96,961 (78,680 ) 4,052 133,502 Foreign currency source of IFRS key metrics The tables below show the Group’s key IFRS analysis by contribution by currency group: IFRS full year 2013 results Pre-taxOperating profit2,3,4% Shareholders’ funds2,3,4% US$ linked1 19 14 Other Asia currencies 17 18 Total Asia 36 32 UK sterling3,4 20 53 US$4 44 15 Total 100 100 1 US$ linked—comprising the Hong Kong and Vietnam operations where the currencies are pegged to the US dollar and the Malaysia and Singapore operations where the currencies are managed against a basket of currencies including the US dollar. 2 Includes long-term, asset management business and other businesses. 3 For operating profit and shareholders’ funds UK sterling includes amounts in respect of central operations as well as UK insurance operations and M&G. 4 For shareholders’ funds, the US$ grouping includes US$ denominated core structural borrowings. Sterling operating profits include all interest payable as sterling denominated, reflecting interest rate currency swaps in place. Economic capital position Following provisional agreement on the Omnibus II Directive on 13 November 2013, Solvency II is now expected to come into force on 1 January 2016. Therefore our economic capital results are based on outputs from our Solvency II internal model. Although the Solvency II and Omnibus II Directives, together with draft Level 2 189 Table of Contents ‘Delegated Acts’ provide a viable framework for the calculation of Solvency II results, there remain material areas of uncertainty and in many areas the methodology and assumptions are subject to review and approval by the Prudential Regulation Authority, the Group’s lead regulator. We do not expect to submit our Solvency II internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval until 2015 and therefore the economic capital results shown below should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved Solvency II internal model. At 31 December 2013 the Group has an economic capital surplus of £11.3 billion and an economic solvency ratio of 257 per cent (before taking into account the 2013 final dividend). A summary of the capital position is shown in the table below: 31 December 2013£ billion Economic capital position1 Available capital 18.5 Economic Capital Requirement 7.2 Surplus 11.3 Economic solvency ratio 257 % 1 Based on the Group’s Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. These results are based on outputs from our current Solvency II internal model, assessed against a draft set of rules and with a number of key working assumptions. Further explanation of the underlying methodology and assumptions are set out in the sections below. By disclosing economic capital information at this stage, the Directors of Prudential plc are seeking to provide an indication of the potential outcome of Solvency II based on the Group’s current interpretation of the draft rules. An update of the capital position will be reported annually going forwards and will evolve to reflect changes to the Solvency II rules, on-going refinements to our internal model calibrations, and feedback from the Prudential Regulation Authority on Prudential’s approach to implementing this new capital regime. Against this background of uncertainty, it is possible that the final outcome of Solvency II could result in a fall in the Group solvency ratio, relative to the results shown above. Methodology In line with Solvency II, for the Group’s European and Asian life business, and holding companies, the available capital is the value of assets in excess of liabilities. The key components of available capital are the market value of assets, insurance technical provisions (calculated as the sum of best estimate liabilities plus a risk margin) and other liabilities. Subordinated-debt forms part of available capital, rather than being treated as a liability, since this debt is subordinated to policyholder claims. As a general principle, both assets and liabilities are recognised at the value at which they could theoretically be transferred to a third party in an arms’ length transaction. On the asset side of the balance sheet, assets are mostly held at IFRS fair value. However, adjustments are required to IFRS values to eliminate intangible items such as goodwill and deferred acquisition costs and to take account of economic assets which are excluded from the current IFRS balance sheet such as the present value of future with-profits shareholder transfers. The best estimate liability is calculated by taking the average of future risk-adjusted best estimate cashflows, taking into account the time value of money and the relative liquidity of those liabilities. The best estimate liability allows for the value of options and guarantees embedded in existing contracts as well as the value of future discretionary benefits payable to policyholders. Realistic management actions and policyholder behaviour are allowed for where relevant. In addition, since capital requirements are only derived to cover risks over a one year horizon, a risk margin is added to the best estimate liability to cover the cost of ceding liabilities to a third party after one year, assuming a 6 per cent per annum cost of capital, in line with Solvency II requirements. The Economic Capital Requirement measures the potential reduction in the value of available capital over a one year time horizon, in an adverse 1-in-200 probability event, consistently with the Solvency II Directive. This 190 Table of Contents allows for diversification effects between different risk-types and between entities. No restrictions on the economic value of overseas surplus have been allowed for in assessing the capital position at Group level. Prudential’s US insurance entities are included in the economic capital position on a local RBC basis under the assumption of US equivalence and the assumed permitted use of the ’deduction and aggregation’ method. This is in line with our view of the most likely outcome of Solvency II given the agreement reached in the Omnibus II Directive. The contribution of US insurance entities to the Group surplus is that in excess of 250 per cent of the US RBC Company Action Level, which is in line with the level at which we measure both the Group’s IGD surplus and the Group’s reported free surplus amount. In line with the draft Solvency II requirements under the ’deduction and aggregation’ method, no diversification benefit is allowed for between US insurance entities and other parts of the Group. The contribution of Japan Life to the Group surplus has been set equal to the ‘held for sale’ accounting value of £48m, pending completion of the sale. The impact of the domestication of the Hong Kong branch, which became effective on 1 January 2014, is not allowed for in these economic capital results, but is estimated to have a negative impact on the Group solvency ratio of -4 percentage points, mainly due to a loss of diversification in the risk margin following separation of the Hong Kong business into a subsidiary. Consistently with evolving Solvency II requirements, the Group calculation also includes all non-insurance entities, including asset management companies, Prudential Capital and holding companies, as follows: • asset managers are included in line with existing sectoral capital rules, and Prudential Capital is included on a Basel basis, which follows the expected Solvency II treatment; • defined benefit pension schemes are included using international accounting standards and, in addition, a capital requirement is added; and • holding companies are measured on a Solvency II basis, as if they were insurance companies, in line with draft Solvency II rules. In addition to the assumption of US equivalence and without applying restrictions to the economic value of overseas surplus, other key elements of Prudential’s methodology relating to areas that are presently unclear in the draft Solvency II rules, and which are likely to evolve as more detailed requirements are clarified, relate to: (i) the liability discount rate for UK annuities, which is currently set by applying a ‘liquidity premium’ in addition to the risk-free rate. This liquidity premium addition reflects the long term buy-and-hold nature of the assets backing UK annuity liabilities, which are therefore not directly exposed to changes in market credit spreads, but instead to long term default risk over the term of the assets. This liquidity premium will be replaced with the corresponding Solvency II ‘Matching Adjustment’ when the rules and interpretation relating to this Solvency II calculation are clarified; (ii) the impact of transitional arrangements on technical provisions, for which no allowance has been made in the economic capital position, but which may apply under Solvency II (although the use of this transitional is subject to regulatory approval and the extent to which it is permitted is likely to depend on the final Solvency II capital position); and (iii) the credit risk adjustment to the risk free rate, which is currently set at 10 basis points, consistent with the specification in Quantitative Impact Study 5, but where discussions are ongoing at a European level as part of the process to agree the more detailed Solvency II rules. Further, current drafts of the Solvency II rules remain unclear in relation to capital tiering requirements and therefore tiering limits are not yet applied. Prudential’s methodology in the areas highlighted above will evolve in the future as the final Solvency II requirements become clearer. 191 Table of Contents In addition, there are a range of other calibration issues which will remain unclear until Solvency II requirements have been finalised and our Solvency II internal model has been reviewed and approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Therefore the capital position may change as methodology is refined in the lead up to 2016 when Solvency II is expected to formally replace the current IGD regime. Assumptions The key assumptions required for the economic capital calibration are: (i) assumptions used to derive non-market related best estimate liability cash flows, which are based on EEV best estimate assumptions; (ii) assumptions used to derive market related best estimate liability cash flows, which are based on market data at the valuation date where this data is reliable and comes from a deep and liquid market, or on appropriate extrapolation methodologies where markets are not sufficiently liquid to be reliable; (iii) assumptions underlying the calculation of the best estimate liability in respect of dynamic management actions and policyholder behaviour; (iv) assumptions underlying the risk models used to calculate the 1-in-200 level capital requirements for the Economic Capital Requirement which are set using a combination of historic market, demographic and operating experience data and expert judgement; and (v) assumptions on the dependencies between risks, which are calibrated using a combination of historic data and expert judgement. The risk-free curve at which best estimate liability cash flows are discounted is based on market swap rates (with the exception of Vietnam where no liquid swap market exists and government bond yields are therefore used), with a deduction of 10 basis points to allow for a ‘credit risk adjustment’ to swap rates. In addition, a liquidity premium is added to the liability discount rate for UK annuities, in both the base balance sheet and in the stressed conditions underlying the Economic Capital Requirement. In the absence of a Matching Adjustment calibration, the liquidity premium has been derived by reference to existing Solvency I allowances and a range of other industry benchmarks. The allowances vary by fund reflecting the nature of the respective asset portfolios and the extent of asset-liability cashflow matching, which are also likely to be key inputs into the Solvency II Matching Adjustment calculation. The resulting liquidity premium allowances are summarised in the table below. The final Solvency II discount curve is subject to considerable uncertainties and may vary significantly from these assumptions. 31 December 2013 Line of business Baseliquidity premium—bps(relative to swaps) Percentage of total stressedcredit spreads attributedto liquidity premium PRIL annuities 61 51 % PAC non-profit sub-fund annuities 55 52 % Aside from UK annuities, no liquidity premium allowance has been assumed for any other lines of business. 192 Table of Contents Reconciliation of IFRS to economic available capital The table below shows the reconciliation of Group IFRS shareholders’ equity to available capital. (£ billion) Available capital1 IFRS shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2013 9.7 Adjustment to restate US insurance entities onto a US Risk Based Capital basis (0.6 ) Remove DAC, goodwill & intangibles (2.7 ) Add subordinated-debt treated as economic available capital 3.8 Insurance contract valuation differences 5.8 Add value of shareholder-transfers 4.1 Increase in value of net deferred tax liabilities (resulting from valuation differences above) (1.3 ) Other (0.3 ) Available capital at 31 December 2013 18.5 1 Based on the Group’s Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. The key differences between the two metrics are: • £0.6 billion represents the adjustment required to the Group’s shareholders’ funds in order to convert Jackson’s contribution from an IFRS basis to the local statutory valuation basis which underpins the US Risk Based Capital regime; • £2.7 billion due to the removal of DAC and goodwill from the IFRS balance sheet; • £3.8 billion due to the addition of subordinated debt which is treated as available capital on an economic basis but as a liability under IFRS; • £5.8 billion due to differences in insurance valuation requirements between economic capital and IFRS, with available capital partially capturing the economic value of in-force business which is excluded from IFRS; offset to some extent by the inclusion of a risk margin which is not required under IFRS; • £4.1 billion due to the inclusion of the value of future shareholder transfers from with-profits business on the economic balance sheet in the UK and Asia, which is excluded from the determination of the Group’s IFRS shareholders’ funds; and • £1.3 billion due to the impact on the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities resulting from the other valuation differences noted above. Analysis of movement in the economic capital position The table below shows the movement during the financial year in the Group’s economic capital surplus. 1 January to 31 December 2013 (£ billion) Economiccapitalsurplus1 Economicsolvencyratio1 Economic solvency position as at 1 January 2013 8.8 215 % Model changes 0.1 2 % Operating experience 2.1 31 % Non-operating experience 0.9 12 % Other capital movements: Acquisitions / disposals (0.5 ) (8 )% Foreign currency translation movements (0.4 ) 0 % Subordinated debt issuance 1.1 16 % Dividends (0.8 ) (11 )% Economic solvency position as at 31 December 2013 11.3 257 % 1 Based on the Group’s Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. 193 Table of Contents During 2013 the Group’s economic capital surplus increased from £8.8 billion to £11.3 billion. The total movement over the year was equivalent to a 42 percentage point increase in the Group economic solvency ratio, driven by: • model changes: a positive impact to Group surplus arising from a number of modelling enhancements and refinements; • operating experience: generated by in-force business, new business written in 2013, the beneficial impact of management actions taken during 2013 to de-risk the business, and small impacts from non-market assumption changes and non-market experience variances over the year; • non-operating experience: mainly arising from positive market experience during 2013; • other capital movements: a reduction in surplus from the acquisition of Thanachart Life and the preparation for sale of the Japanese business, the negative impact of exchange rate movements, an increase in surplus from new subordinated-debt issuances and a reduction in surplus due to dividend payments in 2013. Analysis of Group Economic Capital Requirement The table below shows the split of the £7.2 billion Group Economic Capital Requirement by risk type(34) at 31 December 2013. However, there are material areas of uncertainty with regard to methodology and assumptions in the internal model which remain subject to review and approval by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Therefore, the results shown below should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved internal model. % of undiversified Economic CapitalRequirement1 % of diversified Economic CapitalRequirement1 Market 53 % 64 % Equity 15 % 24 % Credit 20 % 37 % Yields (interest rates) 13 % 0 % Other 5 % 3 % Insurance 36 % 28 % Mortality/morbidity 8 % 4 % Lapse 19 % 21 % Longevity 9 % 3 % Operational/expense 11 % 8 % 1 Based on the Group’s Solvency II internal model which has not been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. The Group’s most material risk exposures are to financial markets, in particular to equities and credit spreads, which we hold to generate a higher return on capital over the long-term. The Group also has material insurance risk exposures including longevity risk from UK annuities, lapse risk across a wide range of products, and mortality and morbidity risk mainly arising from protection products written in Asia. These risks diversify strongly with market risks, even after allowing for market-related policyholder behaviour, thereby increasing the return on capital which can be earned from the balanced mix of risks. A brief description of the most material risks is set out below. • The Group’s exposure to equities mainly arises from UK shareholder transfers linked to policyholder funds (partially offset by economic equity hedges) and from future fund management charges on unit linked funds in Asia. The equity exposure arising from Jackson’s variable annuity business is mostly hedged. (34) The Group Economic Capital Requirement by risk type includes capital requirements in respect of Jackson’s risk exposures, based on 250% of the US RBC Company Action Level. 194 Table of Contents • The Group also has significant exposure to credit risk, mainly from the UK annuity portfolio and from Jackson’s fixed annuity credit portfolio. Credit exposures across the Group are carefully monitored and managed as part of the Group’s risk management framework. • The Group is exposed to movements in yields (interest rates); while falling interest rates increase the risks arising from policyholder guarantees in with-profits funds and variable annuities, falling interest rates also increase the value of future insurance profits. • The most material insurance risk exposures arise from UK longevity risk, and lapse, mortality and morbidity risk in Asia; and • The Group is also exposed to expense and operational risk, which is closely monitored and managed through internal control processes. Sensitivity testing of Group economic solvency position Stress testing the economic capital position gives the following results (as at 31 December 2013): • an instantaneous 20 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by £0.3 billion but increase the economic solvency ratio to 260 per cent; • an instantaneous 40 per cent fall in equity markets would reduce surplus by £1.0 billion but increase the economic solvency ratio to 258 per cent; • a 100 basis points reduction in interest rates (subject to a floor of zero) would reduce surplus by £1.3 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 225 per cent; • a 100 basis points increase in interest rates would increase surplus by £0.8 billion and increase the economic solvency ratio to 284 per cent; • a 100 basis points increase in credit spreads(35) would reduce surplus by £1.3 billion and reduce the economic solvency ratio to 254 per cent. These sensitivity results demonstrate the resilience of the economic capital position following large falls in equity markets, sizeable reductions in yields and a severe credit event. The adverse impact of falling equity markets mainly results from a reduction in the value of with-profits shareholder transfers and future fund management charges in the UK and Asia. Equity hedging reduces the impact of these exposures and a dynamic equity hedging programme is also in place to manage the equity risk arising in Jackson’s variable annuities business. A fall in yields has a material adverse impact on Group surplus which largely arises from a decrease in the value of future with-profits shareholder transfers and an increase in the size of risk margins. Falling yields also increases the value of the Group’s external debt, reducing the Group surplus. However, these impacts are partially offset by an increase in the value of future insurance profits and changes in the value of hedging assets. Widening credit spreads adversely impacts on the annuity business in the UK since this is deemed to represent an increase, to some extent, in the expected level of future defaults. Jackson is not exposed to credit spread widening on a US RBC basis but an increase in defaults in the Jackson credit book would have a negative impact on the Group capital position and is reflected in the credit stress test above. (35) For the credit spread widening stress 10 times expected defaults are assumed for Jackson since credit spread movements do not directly impact on the US RBC result. 195 Table of Contents Liquidity and Capital Resources Prudential Capital operates a central treasury function for Prudential, which has overall responsibility for managing Prudential’s capital funding program as well as its central cash and liquidity positions. Prudential arranges the financing of each of its subsidiaries primarily by raising external finance either at the parent company level (including through finance subsidiaries whose obligations the parent company guarantees) or at the operating company level. After making enquiries the directors of Prudential have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue their operations for the foreseeable future. Overview We continue to operate with a strong solvency position, while maintaining high levels of liquidity and capital generation. At 31 December 2013 our IGD surplus is estimated at £5.1 billion before deducting the 2013 final dividend, equivalent to available capital covering our capital requirement 2.8 times. This is testament to our capital discipline, the effectiveness of our hedging activities, our low direct Eurozone exposure, the minimal level of credit impairments and the natural offsets in our portfolio of businesses which dampen the effects of movements in interest rates. Jackson’s Risk-Based Capital ratio at the end of 2013 was 450 per cent, having earlier in the year remitted £294 million to Group while supporting its balance sheet growth and maintaining adequate capital. All of our subsidiaries continue to hold strong capital positions on a local regulatory basis. During 2013, Prudential completed the long-running project for approval to domesticate the Hong Kong branch business of the PAC with-profits fund, which has an effective date of 1 January 2014. The value of the estate of our UK with-profits fund as at 31 December 2013 is estimated at £8.0 billion prior to the effect of this transfer (2012: £7.0 billion). The value of the shareholders’ interest in future transfers from the UK with-profits fund is estimated at £2.7 billion (31 December 2012: £2.1 billion). Despite the continued volatility in financial markets, Prudential UK’s with-profits fund performed well, achieving a 10 per cent pre-tax investment return for policyholder asset shares during 2013. Furthermore, on a statutory (Pillar 1) basis the total credit default reserve for the UK shareholder annuity funds also contributes to protecting our capital position in excess of the IGD surplus. Notwithstanding the absence of defaults in the period, at 31 December 2013 we have maintained sizeable credit default reserves at £1.9 billion (31 December 2012: £2.1 billion), representing 47 per cent of the portfolio spread over swaps, compared with 40 per cent at 31 December 2012. In 2013, Prudential plc was designated by the FSB as a G-SII. At the same time, the International Association of Insurance Supervisors (IAIS) announced details of its assessment methodology and proposed policy measures for G-SIIs, covering enhanced supervision, effective resolution and higher loss absorption capacity. We continue to monitor these developments. With greater visibility on the potential outcome of Solvency II, we have for the first time published our economic capital position based on our Solvency II internal model. This result is based on an assumption of US equivalence, with no restrictions being placed on the economic value of overseas surplus, and the internal model on which these calculations are based has not yet been reviewed or approved by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Other key elements of the basis which are likely to be updated in future as Solvency II regulations become clearer relate to the liability discount rate for UK annuities, the impact of transitional arrangements and the credit risk adjustment to the risk-free rate. Therefore, the results represent an estimate of our Solvency II capital position, assessed against a draft set of rules, with a number of key working assumptions, and the eventual Solvency II capital position will change as we iterate both the methodology and the internal model to reflect final rules and regulatory feedback. 196 Table of Contents On this basis, our economic capital (36) surplus is £11.3 billion (2012: £8.8 billion), which is equivalent to an economic solvency ratio of 257 per cent (2012: ratio of 215 per cent). The economic solvency position is shown to be robust to a range of market sensitivities. Further discussion on the Group’s liquidity and capital resources is provided below under the headings ‘Group and holding company cash flow’, ‘Corporate transactions’, ‘Shareholders’ net borrowings’, ‘Liquidity resources and requirements by operating businesses’, ‘Derivative financial instruments and commitments’, ‘Contractual obligations’ and ‘Group consolidated cash flows’. Group and holding company cash flow Prudential’s consolidated cash flow includes the movement in cash included within both policyholders’ and shareholders’ funds, such as cash in the with-profits fund. Prudential therefore believes that it is more relevant to consider individual components of the movement in holding company cash flow which relate solely to the shareholders. Prudential continues to manage cash flows across the Group with a view to achieving a balance between ensuring sufficient net remittances from the businesses to cover the progressive dividend (after corporate costs) and maximising value for shareholders through the retention of the free surplus generated at business unit level, so that it can be reinvested in the profitable opportunities available to the Group. On this basis, the holding company cash flow statement at an operating level should ordinarily balance close to zero before exceptional cash flows, but from time to time additional remittances from business operations will be made to provide the Group with greater financial flexibility at the corporate centre. Operating holding company cash flow for 2013 before the shareholder dividend was £1,026 million, £115 million higher than 2012. After deducting the shareholder dividend the operating holding company cash flow was £245 million (2012: £256 million). Cash remittances to the Group from business units Cash remitted to the Group in 2013 increased by 12 per cent to £1,341 million (2012: £1,200 million), with well balanced contributions from across the Group. Asia’s remittances increased 17 per cent to £400 million (2012: £341 million), demonstrating the highly cash-generative nature of recent volume growth, driven by the focus on health and protection products. The 2013 remittance of £294 million from the US represents an increase of 18 per cent on 2012, reflecting both growth in the size of the in-force portfolio and an additional contribution from REALIC following its acquisition in 2012. The UK insurance operations have continued to make sizeable remittances at £355 million (2012: £313 million), supported by shareholder transfers from the with-profits fund. M&G net remittances increased 14 per cent to £235 million (2012: £206 million), reflecting its relatively capital-light business model that facilitates high dividend payouts to Group. By 31 December 2013 cumulative net remittances of £4.6 billion have been delivered by business operations since the beginning of 2010, exceeding the cumulative 2010 to 2013 net remittance objective of £3.8 billion. These remittances have been supported by strong underlying free surplus generated across all four business operations, totalling in excess of £8.2 billion over the same period since the start of 2010. Net central outflows and other movements Net central outflows increased to £315 million in 2013 (2012: £289 million), with higher corporate costs and higher net interest payments offset by lower Solvency II costs and higher tax receipts. (36) The methodology and assumptions used in calculating the economic capital result are set out in the ‘Other results based information’ section. The economic solvency ratio is based on the Group’s Solvency II internal model which will be subject to Prudential Regulation Authority review and approval before its formal adoption in 2016. We do not expect to submit our Solvency II internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval until 2015 and therefore these economic capital disclosures should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved internal model. 197 Table of Contents After central costs, there was a net cash inflow before dividend of £1,026 million in 2013, compared to £911 million in 2012. Dividend payments in 2013 were £781 million, up 19 per cent from £655 million in 2012 following the decision to rebase the full year dividend upwards by 4 pence in 2012. Outside of the normal recurring central cash flow items, the holding company generated £605 million in cash (2012: net payments of £76 million). This £605 million included the proceeds from the issue of US$700 million and £700 million (total £1,124 million) of hybrid debts in 2013. Offsetting these were payments of £397 million for the acquisition of Thanachart Life and we paid £31 million to capitalise the two new legal entities in Hong Kong in anticipation of the domestication of the Hong Kong branch business. In addition, the holding company incurred £83 million of other cash payments in 2013, including payments in respect of amounts due to the UK tax authorities following the settlement reached in 2010 on historic tax issues and amounts totalling £30 million paid to the Financial Services Authority over issues related to the terminated AIA transaction. Dividend payments The total cost of dividends settled by Prudential were £781 million and £655 million for the years ended 31 December 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Board has decided to rebase the full year dividend upwards by 4.38 pence, reflecting the strong progress made in both the earnings and free surplus generation of the business and in the delivery of its financial objectives. In line with this, the directors recommend a final dividend of 23.84 pence per share (2012: 20.79 pence), which brings the total dividend for the year to 33.57 pence (2012: 29.19 pence), representing an increase of 15 per cent over 2012. Debt service costs Debt service costs charged to profit in respect of core borrowings paid by Prudential in 2013 were £305 million compared with £280 million in 2012. Of total consolidated borrowings of £4,636 million as at 31 December 2013, the parent company had core borrowings of £4,211 million outstanding, all of which have contractual maturity dates of more than five years. Liquidity sources The parent company held cash and short-term investments of £2,230 million, £1,380 million and £1,200 million as at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The sources of cash in 2013 included dividends, loans and interest received from operating subsidiaries. Prudential received £1,451 million in cash remittances from business units in 2013, compared to £1,414 million received in 2012 and £1,285 million received in 2011. These remittances primarily comprise dividends from business units and the shareholders’ statutory transfer from the PAC long-term with-profits fund (UK Life Fund) relating to earlier bonus declarations. Offset against these cash remittances were £110 million, £214 million and £180 million of capital invested in 2013, 2012 and 2011 respectively. Overall net remittances from business units had increased from £1,200 million in 2012 to £1,341 million in 2013. Shareholders’ statutory transfer In 2013, PAC declared a total surplus of £2,134 million from PAC’s primary with-profits sub-fund, of which £1,922 million was added to with-profits policies and £212 million was distributed to shareholders. In 2012, PAC declared a total surplus of £2,210 million from PAC’s primary with-profits sub-fund, of which £1,990 million was added to with-profits policies and £220 million was distributed to shareholders. In 2011, PAC declared a total surplus of £2,293 million from PAC’s primary with-profits sub-fund, of which £2,064 million was added to with-profits policies and £229 million was distributed to shareholders. 198 Table of Contents Dividends, loans and interest received from subsidiaries Under UK company law, dividends can only be paid if a company has distributable reserves sufficient to cover the dividend. In PAC, Prudential’s largest operating subsidiary, distributable reserves are created mainly by the statutory long-term business profit transfer to shareholders that occurs upon the declaration of bonuses to policyholders of with profit products. See ‘Shareholders’ statutory transfer’ above. Prudential’s insurance and fund management subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends and loans to the parent company is restricted by various laws and regulations. Jackson is subject to state laws that limit the dividends payable to its parent company. Dividends in excess of these limitations generally require approval of the state insurance commissioner. The table below shows the dividends, loans and other amounts received by Prudential from the principal operating subsidiaries for 2013 and 2012: Dividends, loan andinterest received in: 2013 £m 2012 £m Asia operations 510 551 US operations 294 249 UK Insurance operations (mainly PAC) 355 317 M&G (including Prudential Capital) 292 297 Total 1,451 1,414 Each of Prudential’s main operations generates sufficient profits to pay dividends to the parent. The amount of dividends paid by the operations is determined after considering the development, growth and investment requirements of the operating businesses. Prudential does not believe that the legal and regulatory restrictions constitute a material limitation on the ability of businesses to meet their obligations or pay dividends to Prudential. Corporate transactions Agreement to sell Japan life business On 16 July 2013 the Group reached an agreement to sell its closed book life insurance business in Japan, PCA Life Insurance Company Limited, to SBI Holdings Inc. for US$85 million (£51 million at 31 December 2013 closing exchange rate). The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to complete in the second quarter of 2014. Consistent with the classification of the business as held for sale, the IFRS carrying values have been set to £48 million, representing the estimated proceeds, net of related expenses of £3 million. The IFRS loss of £102 million (2012: profit of £17 million) comprises the 2013 reduction on re-measuring the carrying value of the business and its trading results. Acquisition of Thanachart Life On 3 May 2013, the agreement we entered into in November 2012 to establish an exclusive 15-year partnership with Thanachart Bank Public Company Limited (Thanachart Bank) to develop jointly their bancassurance business in Thailand was launched. At the same time, Prudential Thailand completed the acquisition of Thanachart Life Assurance Company Limited (Thanachart Life), a wholly owned life insurance subsidiary of Thanachart Bank. This transaction builds on Prudential’s strategy of focusing on the highly attractive markets of South-east Asia and is in line with the Group’s multichannel distribution strategy. The consideration for the transaction is THB 18.981 billion (£412 million), of which THB 17.500 billion (£380 million) was settled in cash on completion in May 2013, with a further payment of THB 0.946 billion (£20 million) in July 2013 for adjustments to reflect net asset value as at the completion date. In addition, a deferred payment of THB 0.535 billion (£12 million) is payable 12 months after completion. The THB 18.981 billion (£412 million), includes the amounts attributable to the acquisition of the distribution rights associated with the exclusive 15-year bancassurance partnership agreement with Thanachart Bank. No goodwill arose on this acquisition. 199 Table of Contents Domestication of Hong Kong branch On 1 January 2014, the Group completed the process of domestication of the Hong Kong branch of The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. The branch was transferred on 1 January 2014 to two new Hong Kong-incorporated Prudential companies, one providing life insurance and the other providing general insurance – Prudential Hong Kong Limited and Prudential General Insurance Hong Kong Limited. On the Prudential Regulation Authority’s pillar 1 peak 2 basis, approximately £12.1 billion of assets, £12.0 billion of liabilities, net of reinsurers’ share (including policyholder asset share liabilities, and £1.2 billion of inherited estate) and £0.1 billion of shareholders’ funds (for the excess assets of the transferred non-participating business) have been transferred. Shareholders’ net borrowings 31 December 2013£m 2012£m Shareholders’ borrowings in holding company 4,211 3,126 Prudential Capital 275 275 Jackson surplus notes 150 153 Total 4,636 3,554 Less: Holding company cash and short-term investments (2,230 ) (1,380 ) Net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations 2,406 2,174 Our financing and liquidity position remained strong throughout the period. Our central cash resources amounted to £2.2 billion at 31 December 2013, up from £1.4 billion at 31 December 2012, and we retain a further £2.1 billion of untapped committed liquidity facilities. The Group’s core structural borrowings at 31 December 2013 totalled £4,636 million (2012: £3,554 million) on an IFRS basis and comprised of £4,211 million (2012: £3,126 million) of debt held by the holding company, and £425 million (2012: £428 million) of debt held by the Group’s subsidiaries, Prudential Capital and Jackson. The increase in the holding company debt of £1,085 million primarily arises from the two debt issues that took place in 2013, raising £1,124 million of cash for the Group. In January 2013 Prudential issued a US$700 million (£429 million net of costs) 5.25 per cent perpetual Innovative Tier 1 hybrid under this programme, primarily to Asian retail Investors, and in December 2013 issued a £700 million (£695 million net of costs) 5.7 per cent lower Tier 2 subordinated bonds. Both these debt issuances were raised under our £5 billion medium term note programme, which covers both core borrowings as included in the table above, and non-core borrowings which tend to be shorter in nature. Under this programme at 31 December 2013 the outstanding subordinated debt was £1,535 million, US$2,000 million and €20 million. In addition to its net core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations set out above, the Group also has access to liquidity via the debt capital markets and has in place an unlimited global commercial paper programme. As at 31 December 2013, we had issued commercial paper under this programme totaling £175 million, US$1,948 million, €335 million and AU$8 million. Prudential’s holding company has access to £2.1 billion of syndicated and bilateral committed revolving credit facilities, provided by 17 major international banks, expiring between 2015 and 2018. Apart from small drawdowns to test the process, these facilities have never been drawn, and there were no amounts outstanding at 31 December 2013. The medium term note programme, the commercial paper programme and the committed 200 Table of Contents revolving credit facilities are all available for general corporate purposes and to support the liquidity needs of Prudential’s holding company and are intended to maintain a strong and flexible funding capacity. Prudential manages the Group’s core debt within a target level consistent with its current debt ratings. At 31 December 2013, the gearing ratio (debt, net of cash and short-term investments, as a proportion of IFRS shareholders’ funds plus net debt) was 20 per cent, compared to 17 per cent at 31 December 2012. Prudential plc has strong debt ratings from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch. Prudential’s long-term senior debt is rated A+, A2 and A from Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s and Fitch, while short-term ratings are A-1, P-1 and F1 respectively. The financial strength of PAC is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s, Aa2 by Moody’s and AA by Fitch. Jackson National Life Insurance Company’s financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s, A1 by Moody’s and AA by Fitch. Prudential Assurance Co. Singapore (Pte) Ltd.’s (Prudential Singapore) financial strength is rated AA by Standard & Poor’s. All ratings on Prudential and its subsidiaries referred to above are on stable outlook except for the Aa2 rating of the financial strength of PAC by Moody’s which is on negative outlook. Liquidity resources and requirements by operating business UK life insurance The liquidity sources for Prudential’s UK life insurance businesses comprise premiums, deposits and charges on policies, investment income, proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments, external borrowings and capital contributions from the parent company. The liquidity requirements comprise benefits and claims, operating expenses, interest on debt, purchases of investments and dividends to the parent company. The liquidity requirements of Prudential’s UK life insurance businesses are regularly monitored to match anticipated cash inflows with cash requirements. Cash needs are forecast and projected sources and uses of funds, as well as the asset, liability, investment and cash flow assumptions underlying these projections are reviewed periodically. Adjustments are made periodically to the investment policies with respect to, among other things, the maturity and risk characteristics of the investment assets to reflect changes in the business’ cash needs and also to reflect the changing competitive and economic environment. The liquidity of Prudential’s UK insurance operations is affected by the payment of guaranteed benefits and terminal bonuses on maturing and surrendering policies by the UK insurance operations. In addition, the non-cash bonus declaration to policyholders results in a cash transfer to shareholders’ funds. A large proportion of Prudential’s liabilities contains discretionary surrender values or surrender charges. In addition, pension annuity policies cannot be surrendered by the policyholder. As at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011, PAC’s long-term fund assets in excess of its minimum capital requirements were £20,956 million, £17,936 million and £16,674 million, respectively. The ‘with-profits’ insurance capital component of the enhanced capital requirement, as at 31 December 2013, 2012 and 2011 amounted to £9,674 million, £9,249 million and £9,674 million respectively. M&G The principal liquidity source for M&G is fee income for managing retail, institutional and the internal investment funds of Prudential’s UK operations. The principal liquidity requirements are for operating expenses. Amounts are distributed to the parent company after considering capital requirements. Capital requirements are driven by fixed operating expenses, funds under management and various risks faced by the company. As at 31 December 2013, M&G met the relevant regulatory requirements. 201 Table of Contents US life insurance The liquidity sources for Jackson are its cash, short-term investments and publicly traded bonds, premium income deposits received on certain annuity and institutional products, investment income, reverse repurchase agreements, utilisation of a short-term borrowing facility with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis and capital contributions from the parent company. Liquidity requirements are principally for purchases of new investments and businesses, repayment of principal and interest on debt, payments of interest on surplus notes, funding of insurance product liabilities including payments for policy benefits, surrenders, maturities and new policy loans, and funding of expenses including payment of commissions operating expenses and taxes. As at 31 December 2013, Jackson’s outstanding notes and bank debt included: • US$30 million of collateralised loans maturing through 2016, • US$5 million of mortgage loans collaterised by real estate from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis, • US$250 million of surplus notes maturing in 2027. Significant increases in interest rates and disintermediation can create sudden increases in surrender and withdrawal requests by policyholders and contract holders. Other factors that are not directly related to interest rates can also give rise to disintermediation risk, including but not limited to changes in ratings from rating agencies, general policyholder concerns relating to the life insurance industry (eg the unexpected default of a large, unrelated life insurer) and competition from other products, including non-insurance products such as mutual funds, certificates of deposit and newly developed investment products. Most of the life insurance, annuity and institutional products Jackson offers permit the policyholder or contract holder to withdraw or borrow funds or surrender cash values. At 31 December 2013, a majority of Jackson’s fixed annuity reserves include policy restrictions such as surrender charges and market value adjustments to discourage early withdrawal of policy and contract funds. Jackson uses a variety of asset-liability management techniques to provide for the orderly provision of cash flow from investments and other sources as policies and contracts mature in accordance with their normal terms. Jackson’s principal sources of liquidity to meet unexpected cash outflows associated with sudden and severe increases in surrenders and withdrawals are its portfolio of liquid assets and its net operating cash flows. As at 31 December 2013, the portfolio of cash, short-term investments and publicly traded bonds and equities amounted to US$43.6 billion. Operating net cash inflows for Jackson in 2013 were US$3.0 billion. As at 31 December 2013, the statutory capital and surplus of Jackson was US$4.4 billion, which was in excess of the requirements set out under Michigan insurance law. Jackson is also subject to risk-based capital guidelines that provide a method to measure the adjusted capital that a life insurance company should have for regulatory purposes, taking into account the risk characteristics of Jackson’s investments and products. As at 31 December 2013, Jackson’s total risk based capital ratio under the National Association of Insurance Commissioners’ definition exceeded the Michigan standards. Asia life insurance The liquidity sources for Prudential’s Asia life insurance businesses comprise premiums, deposits and charges on policies, investment income, proceeds from the sale and maturity of investments, external borrowings and capital contributions from the parent company. The liquidity requirements comprise benefits and claims, operating expenses, interest on debt, purchases of investments and dividends to the parent company. The liquidity requirements of Prudential’s Asia life insurance businesses are regularly monitored to match anticipated cash inflows with cash requirements. Cash needs are forecast and projected sources and uses of funds, as well as the asset, liability, investment and cash flow assumptions underlying these projections are reviewed 202 Table of Contents periodically. Adjustments are made periodically to the investment policies with respect to, among other things, the maturity and risk characteristics of the investment assets to reflect changes in the business cash needs and also to reflect the changing competitive and economic environment. Derivative financial instruments and commitments Derivatives The Group enters into a variety of exchange traded and over-the-counter derivative financial instruments, including futures, options, forward currency contracts and swaps such as interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps, swaptions and credit default swaps. All over-the-counter derivative transactions, with the exception of some Asia transactions, are conducted under standardised ISDA (International Swaps and Derivatives Association Inc) master agreements and the Group has collateral agreements between the individual Group entities and relevant counterparties in place under each of these market master agreements. The derivatives are used for efficient portfolio management to obtain cost effective and efficient management of exposure to various markets in accordance with the Group’s investment strategies and to manage exposure to interest rate, currency, credit and other business risks. The Group also uses interest rate derivatives to reduce exposure to interest rate volatility. In particular: • UK with-profits funds use derivatives for efficient portfolio management or reduction in investment risks. For UK annuity business derivatives are used to assist with asset and liability cash flow matching. • US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected. These businesses have purchased some swaptions to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets. • Some products, especially in the US, have guarantee features linked to equity indexes. A mismatch between guaranteed product liabilities and the performance of the underlying assets, exposes the Group to equity index risk. In order to mitigate this risk, the relevant business units purchase swaptions, equity options and futures to better match asset performance with liabilities under equity-indexed products. The US operations and some of the UK operations hold large amounts of interest-rate sensitive investments that contain credit risks on which a certain level of defaults is expected. These entities have purchased swaptions in order to manage the default risk on certain underlying assets and hence reduce the amount of regulatory capital held to support the assets. 203 Table of Contents The principal types of derivatives used by Jackson and their purpose are as follows: Derivative Purpose Interest rate swaps These generally involve the exchange of fixed and floating payments over the period for which Jackson holds the instrument without an exchange of the underlying principal amount. These agreements are used for hedging purposes. Put-swaption contracts These contracts provide the purchaser with the right, but not the obligation, to require the writer to pay the present value of a long-duration interest rate swap at future exercise dates. Jackson purchases and writes put-swaptions with maturities up to 10 years. Put-swaptions hedge against significant movements in interest rates. Equity index futures contracts and equity index options These derivatives (including various call, put options and put spreads) are used to hedge Jackson’s obligations associated with its issuance of fixed index immediate and deferred annuities and certain VA guarantees. Some of these annuities and guarantees contain embedded options which are fair valued for financial reporting purposes. Total return swaps Total return swaps in which Jackson receives equity returns or returns based on reference pools of assets in exchange for short-term floating rate payments based on notional amounts, are held for both hedging and investment purposes. Cross-currency swaps Cross-currency swaps, which embody spot and forward currency swaps and additionally, in some cases, interest rate swaps and equity index swaps, are entered into for the purpose of hedging Jackson’s foreign currency denominated funding agreements supporting trust instrument obligations. Credit default swaps These swaps, represent agreements under which Jackson has purchased default protection on certain underlying corporate bonds held in its portfolio. These contracts allow Jackson to sell the protected bonds at par value to the counterparty if a default event occurs in exchange for periodic payments made by Jackson for the life of the agreement. Jackson does not write default protection using credit derivatives. The Group has provided, from time to time, certain guarantees and commitments to third-parties including funding the purchase or development of land and buildings and other related matters. The contractual obligations to purchase or develop investment properties at 31 December 2013 was £92 million. At 31 December 2013, Jackson has unfunded commitments of £298 million related to its investments in limited partnerships and of £132 million related to commercial mortgage loans. These commitments were entered into in the normal course of business and the Company does not expect a material adverse impact on the operations to arise from them. Contractual obligations Contractual obligations with specified payment dates as at 31 December 2013 were as follows: Total Less than 1year 1-3 years 3-5 years More than5 years £m Policyholder liabilities(i) 455,309 26,939 51,735 49,477 327,158 Long-term debt(ii) 4,636 — — 275 4,361 Other borrowings(ii) 2,947 1,870 492 112 473 Capital lease obligations 93 5 9 7 72 Operating lease obligations 751 110 188 120 333 Purchase obligations(iii) 522 522 — — — Obligations under funding, securities lending and sale and repurchase agreements 2,074 2,074 — — — Other long-term liabilities(iv) 5,812 5,501 209 57 45 Total 472,144 37,021 52,633 50,048 332,442 204 Table of Contents £m £m Reconciliation to consolidated statement of financial position: Total contractual obligations per above 472,144 Difference between policyholder liabilities per above (based on undiscounted cash flows) and total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds per balance sheet: Total policyholder liabilities and unallocated surplus of with-profits funds per the consolidated statement of financial position 286,014 Policyholder liabilities (undiscounted) per above (455,309 ) (169,295 ) Other short-term/non-contractual obligations: Current tax liabilities 395 Deferred tax liabilities 3,778 Accruals and deferred income 824 Other creditors (excluding capital and operating lease obligations and purchase obligations) 1,941 Derivative liabilities 1,689 Other liabilities 3,736 12,363 Other items 1,069 Total liabilities per consolidated statement of financial position 316,281 Notes (i) Amounts shown in respect of policyholder liabilities represent estimated undiscounted cash flows for Prudential’s life assurance contracts. In determining the projected payments, account has been taken of the contract features, in particular that the amount and timing of policyholder benefit payments reflect either surrender, death, or contract maturity. In addition, the undiscounted amounts shown include the expected payments based on assumed future investment returns on assets backing policyholder liabilities. The projected cash flows exclude the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds. As at 31 December 2013, on the IFRS basis of reporting, the unallocated surplus was £12,061 million. The unallocated surplus represents the excess of assets over liabilities, including policyholder ‘asset share’ liabilities, which reflect the amount payable under the realistic Peak 2 reporting regime of the PRA. Although accounted for as a liability, as permitted by IFRS 4, there is currently no expected payment date for the unallocated surplus. (ii) The amounts represent the contractual maturity of amounts of borrowings included in the consolidated statement of financial position (i.e. excludes future interest payments) as shown in note H13 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Long-term debt comprises the core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations and the £100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc. Other borrowings comprise operational borrowings attributable to shareholder-financed operations and borrowings attributable to with-profits operations but excluding the £100 million 8.5 per cent undated subordinated guaranteed bonds of Scottish Amicable Finance plc. (iii) Comprising unfunded commitments for investments in limited partnerships of £298 million (2012: £325 million) and unfunded commitments related to mortgage loans of £132 million (2012: £86 million) and commitments to purchase or develop investment properties of £92 million (2012: £5). (iv) Amounts due in less than one year include amounts attributable to unit holders of consolidated unit trusts and similar funds of £5,278 million. 205 Table of Contents Group Consolidated Cash Flows The discussion that follows is based on the consolidated statement of cash flows prepared under IFRS and presented in Item 18 of this Form 20-F. Net cash inflows in 2013 were £789 million. This amount comprised inflows of £1,324 million from operating activities less outflows of £584 million from investing activities plus inflows of £49 million from financing activities. Net cash outflows in 2012 were £513 million. This amount comprised inflows of £705 million from operating activities less outflows of £326 million from investing activities less outflows of £892 million from financing activities. Net cash inflows in 2011 were £568 million. This comprised inflows of £1,648 million from operating activities less outflows of £167 million from investing activities and £913 million from financing activities. The Group held cash and cash equivalents of £6,785 million at 31 December 2013 compared with £6,126 million and £6,741 million at 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively. 206 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees The Prudential Board consists of 16 directors as at 8 April 2014. Set forth below are the names, ages, positions, business experience and principal business activities performed by the current directors of Prudential, as well as the dates of their initial appointment as directors, including those directors who joined the Board during 2013 and up until the date of filing. Ages given are as at 8 April 2014. In addition, Keki Dadiseth FCA, Michael Garrett, Robert Devey and John Foley retired from the Board on 1 May, 31 August, 5 September 2013, and 1 April 2014 respectively. Paul Manduca 62 Chairman Nationality: British Skills and experience Paul Manduca was the Senior Independent Director prior to his appointment as Chairman. He was also a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees from October 2010 to June 2012 and a member of the Nomination Committee from January 2011. Appointment date October 2010 Chairman from July 2012 Committee membership Chairman of the Nomination Committee (from July 2012) From September 2005 until March 2011, Paul was a non-executive director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc (Morrisons). During that time, he was the Senior Independent Director, a member of the Nomination Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, and prior to that he chaired their Audit Committee. Paul retired as Chairman of JPM European Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc in December 2012 and was the Chairman of Aon UK Limited until September 2012. He was also a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of KazMunaiGas Exploration & Production until the end of September 2012. Paul was the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Development Securities plc until March 2010, Chairman of Bridgewell Group plc until 2007 and a director of Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc until 2006. Prior to that, he was European CEO of Deutsche Asset Management from 2002 to 2005, global CEO of Rothschild Asset Management from 1999 to 2002 and founding CEO of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited from 1994 to 1999 when he was also a director of Eagle Star and Allied Dunbar. Paul is a member of the Securities Institute, a former Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies from 1991 to 1993, and a former member of the Takeover Panel. Paul is the Chairman of Henderson Diversified Income Limited. 207 Table of Contents Tidjane Thiam 51 Group Chief Executive Skills and experience Tidjane was the Chief Financial Officer from March 2008 until his appointment as Group Chief Executive in 2009. Nationality: French Appointment date March 2008 Group Chief Executive from October 2009 Tidjane spent the first part of his professional career with McKinsey & Company in Paris and New York, serving insurance companies and banks. He then spent a number of years in Africa where he was Chief Executive and later Chairman of the National Bureau for Technical Studies and Development in Côte d’Ivoire and a cabinet member as Secretary of Planning and Development. Tidjane returned to France to become a partner with McKinsey & Company and one of the leaders of their Financial Institutions practice before joining Aviva in 2002. He worked at Aviva until 2008, holding successively the positions of Group Strategy and Development Director, Managing Director of Aviva International, Group Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer, Europe. Tidjane was a non-executive director of Arkema in France until November 2009. He is a member of the Board of the Association of British Insurers (ABI) and was appointed as their Chairman in July 2012. He is a member of the Council of the Overseas Development Institute (ODI) in London, a member of the Africa Progress Panel chaired by Kofi Annan and a sponsor of Opportunity International. Tidjane is a member of the UK-ASEAN Business Council and of the Strategic Advisory Group on UK Trade and Investment. In January 2012, Tidjane was appointed to the Prime Minister’s Business Advisory Group and has been a member of the European Financial Services Round Table (EFR) since January 2013. Tidjane was awarded the Légion d’honneur by the French President in July 2011 and the 2013 Grand Prix de L’Economie by the French newspaper Les Echos. In January 2014, Tidjane was appointed as a British Business Ambassador by invitation from the Prime Minister. EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA 48 Chief Financial Officer Nationality: British Appointment date October 2009 Skills and experience Before joining Prudential, Nic Nicandrou worked at Aviva, where he held a number of senior finance roles, including Norwich Union Life Finance Director and Board Member, Aviva Group Financial Control Director, Aviva Group Financial Management and Reporting Director and CGNU Group Financial Reporting Director. Nic started his career at PricewaterhouseCoopers where he worked in both London and Paris. Pierre-Olivier Marie Georges Bouée 43 Group Chief Risk Officer Nationality: French Appointment date 1 April 2014 Skills and experience Pierre-Olivier joined Prudential in 2008 as Business Representative for Asia and Director of Strategy and Corporate Development. At the same time he joined the Board of Prudential Corporation Asia. In 2009 he took on the additional role of Managing Director CEO Office, while maintaining his responsibilities for Group strategy and coordinating the relationship between Group Head Office and the Asian business. From 2004 until 2008, he worked for Aviva, first as Director, Group Strategy and then as Director of Central & Eastern Europe. Pierre-Olivier began his career as a civil servant in the French Treasury, where he worked at the Secretariat of the Paris Club, before joining McKinsey in 2000 as a consultant working mainly in the international financial institutions sector. 208 Table of Contents Jacqueline Hunt 45 Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe Nationality: British Appointment date 5 September 2013 Skills and experience Jackie Hunt was appointed as Director and Chief Executive of Prudential UK & Europe on 5 September 2013. Before joining Prudential, Jackie was a Director and Chief Financial Officer of Standard Life from May 2010. She joined Standard Life in January 2009 as Deputy Chief Financial Officer and before this, she held various senior management roles at Aviva, including Chief Financial Officer at Norwich Union. After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte & Touche in South Africa, Jackie worked for PricewaterhouseCoopers and Royal & Sun Alliance before joining Aviva in 2003. Jackie is a non-executive director of National Express Group PLC and a Member of the Board. She was previously Chair of the Prudential Financial and Taxation Committee of the Association of British Insurers. Michael McLintock 53 Chief Executive, M&G Skills and experience Michael McLintock is the Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at the time of M&G’s acquisition by Prudential in 1999, having joined M&G in 1992. Nationality: British Appointment date September 2000 From 2001 to 2008, Michael also served on the Board of Close Brothers Group plc as a non-executive director. Michael has been a Trustee of the Grosvenor Estate since October 2008 and was appointed as a non-executive director of Grosvenor Group Limited in March 2012. He has been a member of the Finance Committee of the MCC since October 2005. Barry Stowe 56 Chief Executive, PCA Nationality: American Appointment date November 2006 Skills and experience Barry Stowe is the Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, a position he has held since October 2006. Before joining Prudential, he was President, Accident & Health Worldwide for AIG Life Companies. He joined AIG in 1995, and prior to that was President and CEO of Nisus, a subsidiary of Pan-American Life, from 1992 to 1995. Before joining Nisus, Barry spent 12 years at Willis Corroon in the US. From October 2008 to October 2011 Barry was a director of the Life Insurance Marketing Research Association (LIMRA) and the Life Office Management Association (LOMA). Barry is a member of the Board of Directors of the International Insurance Society. He is also a member of the Board of Visitors of Lipscomb University, a member of the Board of Managers of the Hong Kong International School and Chairman of Save the Children (HK) Ltd. Michael Wells 53 Chief Executive, Jackson Nationality: American Appointment date January 2011 Skills and experience Mike Wells is President and CEO of Jackson National Life Insurance Company (‘Jackson’). Mike has served in a variety of senior and strategic positions at Jackson over the last 15 years, including President of Jackson National Life Distributors. Mike has been Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of Jackson for the last nine years. During this period he has led the development of Jackson’s variable annuity business and has been responsible for IT, strategy, operations, communications, distributions, Curian and the retail broker dealers. 209 Table of Contents NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Hon. Philip Remnant CBE ACA 59 Senior Independent Director Nationality: British Appointment date 1 January 2013 Skills and experience Philip Remnant was a senior adviser at Credit Suisse until December 2013. Philip was previously a Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston (CSFB) Europe and Head of the UK Investment Banking Department. Philip was seconded to the role of Director General of the Takeover Panel, which administers the UK’s code on takeovers and mergers, from 2001 to 2003 and again in 2010. He served on the Board of Northern Rock plc from 2008 to 2010 and from 2007 to 2012 was Chairman of the Shareholder Executive, which manages the relationships between the UK Government and the businesses in which it is a shareholder. Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee (from January 2013) Audit Committee (from January 2013) Nomination Committee (from January 2013) He is a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel, a non-executive director of Severn Trent plc (since March 2014) and of UK Financial Investments Limited (since 2009). Philip is also Chairman of City of London Investment Trust plc (since 2011). Howard Davies 63 Non-executive director Nationality: British Appointment date October 2010 Skills and experience Sir Howard is chairman of the Phoenix Group, and a Professor at Institut d’Etudes Politiques (Sciences Po). He is also Chairman of the UK Government’s Airports Commission. He chairs the International Advisory Board of the China Securities Regulatory Commission and is a member of the International Advisory Board of the China Banking Regulatory Commission. In addition, Sir Howard is an independent director of Morgan Stanley Inc. and a Director of the National Theatre. Committee memberships: Chairman of the Risk Committee (from October 2010) Audit Committee (from November 2010) Nomination Committee (from July 2012) Ann Godbehere FCGA 58 Non-executive director Nationality: British Appointment date August 2007 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Audit Committee (from October 2009) Risk Committee (from November 2010) Nomination Committee (from July 2012) Skills and experience Ann began her career in 1976 with Sun Life of Canada, joining Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group in 1981, where she held a number of management roles rising to Senior Vice President and Controller for life and health and property/casualty businesses in North America in 1995. In 1996 Swiss Re acquired Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group and Ann became Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, North America. In 1997 she was made Chief Executive Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, Canada. She moved to London as Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health Division in 1998 and joined the Property & Casualty Business Group, based out of Zurich, as Chief Financial Officer on its establishment in 2001. From 2003 until February 2007, Ann was Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re Group. From its nationalisation in 2008 until January 2009, Ann was Interim Chief Financial Officer and Executive Director of Northern Rock. Ann is a non-executive director of British American Tobacco p.l.c., Rio Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, UBS AG, and Arden Holdings Limited. Until March 2014 she was also a director of Atrium Underwriting Group Limited and Atrium Underwriters Limited. 210 Table of Contents Alexander Johnston (Alistair) CMG FCA 61 Non-executive director Nationality: British Appointment date January 2012 Committee membership: Audit Committee (from January 2012) Skills and experience Alistair was a partner of KPMG from 1986 to 2010. He joined KPMG (then Peat Marwick Mitchell) in 1973 and held a number of senior leadership positions. These included Vice Chairman of UK Financial Services and Head of UK Insurance Practice, International Managing Partner - Global Markets and UK Vice Chairman. Latterly, he served as a Global Vice Chairman of KPMG from 2007 to 2010. Alistair acted as a non-executive director of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office from 2005 to 2010 and chaired the audit committee until 2009. He was an Association Member of BUPA until January 2012. Alistair is a member of the Strategy and Development Board and a Visiting Professor at Cass Business School. He is also a Trustee of the Design Museum in London and a Trustee of Create Arts. Kaikhushru Nargolwala FCA 63 Non-executive director Nationality: Singaporean Skills and experience Kai Nargolwala was the non-executive Chairman of Credit Suisse Asia Pacific until December 2011, having joined Credit Suisse in 2008 as a member of the Executive Board and CEO of the Asia Pacific region. Appointment date January 2012 Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee (from January 2012) Risk Committee (from January 2012) From 1998 to 2007, Kai worked for Standard Chartered PLC where he was a Group Executive Director responsible for Asia Governance and Risk. His responsibilities included developing strategy and business performance across Asia, as well as strategic merger and acquisition activity. Prior to that, he spent 19 years at Bank of America and from 1990 was based in Asia as Group Executive Vice President and Head of the Asia Wholesale Banking Group. From 2004 to 2007, he was a non-executive director at Tate & Lyle plc and at Visa International, where he served on the Asia Pacific Board. Kai is currently a non-executive director and lead independent director of Singapore Telecommunications Limited, a member of the Board of the Casino Regulatory Authority of Singapore, a non-executive director of PSA International Pte. Limited, Chairman of the Governing Board of the Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School and a director and Chairman of Clifford Capital Pte. Limited. Kai was appointed as a director of Credit Suisse Group AG in April 2013 and became a member of the Singapore Capital Markets Committee of the Monetary Authority of Singapore in January 2014. 211 Table of Contents Anthony Nightingale CMG SBS JP 66 Non-executive director Nationality: British Appointment date 1 June 2013 Skills and experience Anthony Nightingale was Managing Director of the Jardine Matheson Group from 2006 to 2012. He joined that Group in 1969 and held a number of senior positions before joining the Board of Jardine Matheson Holdings in 1994. Anthony is now a non-executive director of Jardine Matheson Holdings and of other Jardine Matheson group companies. These include Dairy Farm, Hongkong Land, Jardine Cycle & Carriage, Jardine Strategic and Mandarin Oriental. Committee membership: Remuneration Committee (from June 2013) Anthony is also a commissioner of Astra International, a non-executive director of Schindler Holding AG and China Xintiandi Limited, and a senior adviser to Academic Partnerships International and Dickson Concepts. He is a Hong Kong representative to the APEC Business Advisory Council and Chairman of The Hong Kong-APEC Trade Policy Study Group. He is also a member of the Securities and Futures Commission Committee on Real Estate Investment Trusts, a council member of the Employers’ Federation of Hong Kong, a member of the UK-ASEAN Business Council Advisory Panel, a Non-Official member of the Commission on Strategic Development in Hong Kong and Chairman of the Mission to Seamen in Hong Kong. Anthony is a past chairman of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce. Alice Schroeder 57 Non-executive director Nationality: American Appointment date 10 June 2013 Skills and experience Alice Schroeder began her career as a qualified accountant at Ernst & Young in 1980 where she worked for 11 years before leaving to join the Financial Accounting Standards Board as a manager. From September 1993 she worked at various investment banks leading teams of analysts specialising in property-casualty insurance before joining Morgan Stanley, where she became a Managing Director in 2001, heading the Global Insurance Equity Research team. In May 2003 Alice became a senior adviser at Morgan Stanley, leaving in November 2009. She is a highly respected analyst and the author of the official biography of Warren Buffett, Chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway. Committee membership: Audit Committee (from June 2013) Alice is an independent Board member of Cetera Financial Group and an independent director of WebTuner Corp. She is a member of the National Association of Corporate Directors, Women Corporate Directors and a Board member of The Committee of 200 Foundation. 212 Table of Contents Lord Turnbull KCB CVO 69 Non-executive director Nationality: British Skills and experience Lord Turnbull was a member of the Remuneration Committee from November 2010, and a member of the Audit Committee from January 2007 to November 2010. Appointment date May 2006 Committee memberships: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee (from June 2011) Risk Committee (from November 2010) Nomination Committee (from June 2011) Lord Turnbull entered the House of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005. In 2002 he became Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Service until he retired in 2005. Prior to that he held a number of positions in the Civil Service, including Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury; Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment (later Environment, Transport and the Regions); Private Secretary (Economics) to the Prime Minister; and Principal Private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher and then John Major. He joined HM Treasury in 1970. Lord Turnbull is a non-executive director of Frontier Economics Limited and The British Land Company PLC. He was formerly Chairman of BH Global Limited until January 2013 and a non-executive director of the Arup Group from 2006 to 2007. He also worked part-time as a Senior Adviser to the London partners of Booz and Co (UK) until February 2011. Other Executive Officers The heads of Prudential’s business units, Prudential UK and Europe, M&G, Jackson National Life Insurance Company and Prudential Corporation Asia, are also directors of Prudential as set forth above. For information relating to the compensation paid or accrued to all Prudential directors see Item 6, ‘Compensation’. 213 Table of Contents Compensation DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION POLICY This Remuneration Policy will apply following the AGM on 15 May 2014 (subject to shareholder approval). Total remuneration for our executive directors is made up of a number of elements. The purpose of each element is set out below: Component Purpose Fixed Pay Base salary Paying salaries at a competitive level enables the Company to recruit and retain key executives. Benefits The benefits provided to executives are items and allowances that assist them in carrying out their duties efficiently. Expatriate and relocation benefits allow Prudential to attract high calibre executives in the international talent market and deploy them appropriately within the Group. Provision for an income in retirement Pension benefits provide executives with opportunities to save for an income in retirement. Variable pay Annual cash bonus Payments under the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP) incentivise the delivery of stretching financial and personal objectives which are drawn from the annual business plan. Annual deferred bonus The Company mandates that a proportion of each executive director’s annual bonus is not paid in cash and must be deferred. The deferred bonus is subject to malus provisions designed to ensure that performance is sustained. Deferral into shares aligns the interests of our executive directors with our shareholders and helps to ensure a focus on the longer-term sustainable success of the Company. Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan (“PLTIP”) The Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan is designed to incentivise the delivery of: • Longer- term business plans; • Sustainable long-term returns for shareholders; and • Adherence to the Group’s risk appetite. Awards are made in Prudential shares; aligning the experience of executives and shareholders. M&G Executive LTIP The M&G Executive LTIP is designed to incentivise the delivery of: • Longer-term sustainable growth; • Adherence to the Group’s and M&G’s risk appetite. Legacy long term incentives Group Performance Share Plan (“GPSP”) The GPSP was designed to incentivise the achievement of sustainable long-term returns for shareholders. Awards were made in Prudential shares; aligning the absolute shareholder experience of executives and shareholders. Business Unit Performance Plan (“BUPP”) The BUPP was designed to incentivise the delivery of business unit performance for executives who have regional responsibilities. These directors received awards under both the GPSP and the BUPP to ensure a dual focus on business unit and Group performance. Awards were made in Prudential shares aligning the absolute shareholder experience of executives and shareholders. 214 Table of Contents Fixed pay policy for executive directors Component Operation Opportunity Base salary Prudential’s policy is to offer all executive directors base salaries which are competitive within their local market. The Committee reviews salaries annually with changes effective from 1 January. In determining base salaries for each executive, the Committee considers factors such as: • Salary increases for all employees; • The performance and experience of the executive; • Group or business unit financial performance; and • Internal relativities. Additionally, economic factors such as inflation are considered. Having taken a view on the appropriate levels of increase based on these criteria, market data is reviewed with the intention that any resultant salary remains within a competitive range. As the Company has executive directors based in multiple geographies, and within insurance and asset management businesses, the Remuneration Committee reviews data from a number of different markets which it believes to be the most relevant benchmarks. The benchmarks used are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration. Salaries are typically paid in the local currency of the country where the executive is based. This means that the reported salary in the ‘single figure’ table may fluctuate due to currency movements. The Committee may also determine that the salary of an executive is set in an alternative currency (for example US dollars). Annual salary increases for executive directors will normally be in line with the increases for other employees across our business units. However, there is no prescribed maximum annual increase. 215 Table of Contents Component Operation Opportunity Benefits Prudential’s policy is for the Committee to have the discretion to offer executive directors benefits which reflect their individual circumstances and are competitive within their local market, including: • Health and wellness benefits; • Protection and security benefits; • Transport benefits; • Family and education benefits; • All employee share plans and savings plans; and • Relocation and expatriate benefits. No benefits are pensionable. The maximum paid will be the cost to the company of providing these benefits. The cost of these benefits may vary from year to year but the Committee is mindful of achieving the best value from providers. Provision for an income in retirement Prudential’s policy is to offer all executive directors a pension provision which is competitive within their local market. The pension provision for executive directors depends on the arrangements in place for other employees in their business unit when they joined the Group. Those executives who joined the Group before June 2003 were entitled to join the defined benefit plans available at that time. At the end of 2013, no executive director was an active member of a Group defined benefit scheme. Executives who are not an active member of a defined benefit scheme have the option to: • Receive payments into a defined contribution scheme, or • Take a cash supplement in lieu of contributions. Jackson’s Defined Contribution Retirement Plan has a guaranteed element (6 per cent of pensionable salary) and additional contributions (up to a further 6 per cent of pensionable salary) based on the profitability of JNL. Executive directors are entitled to receive pension contributions or a cash supplement (or combination of the two) up to a total of 25 per cent of base salary or, retain membership of a defined benefit scheme. In addition, the Chief Executive, PCA receives statutory contributions into the Mandatory Provident Fund. 216 Table of Contents Annual bonus policy for executive directors Annual Bonus Operation Currently all executive directors participate in the Annual Incentive Plan (AIP). The AIP awards for all executive directors are subject to the achievement of financial and personal objectives. Business unit chief executives either have measures of their business unit’s financial performance in the AIP or they may participate in a business unit specific bonus plan. For example, the President and CEO, JNL currently participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool as well as in the AIP. Determining annual bonus payments No bonus is payable under the AIP for performance at or below the threshold level, increasing to 100 per cent for achieving or exceeding the maximum level. The Committee determines the annual incentive payment for each executive director with reference to the performance achieved against targets. The Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool is calculated based on JNL’s financial performance and distributed to Jackson’s leadership team. In assessing performance the Committee will take into account the personal performance of the director and the Group and/or business units’ adherence to the risk appetite and framework as well as other relevant factors. To assist them in their assessment the Committee considers a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer on adherence to the Group’s risk appetite and framework. Unusual circumstances See the ‘Approach to recruitment remuneration’ and ‘Policy for loss of office’ sections for details of the Committee’s powers in respect of AIP participants joining or leaving the Group. Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G has a bonus opportunity of 0.75 per cent of M&G’s IFRS profit, capped at six times salary. For other executive directors the maximum AIP opportunity is up to 200% of salary. Annual awards are disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. In addition to the AIP, the President & CEO, JNL receives a ten per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool. Performance measures The Committee has the discretion to determine the specific performance conditions attached to each AIP cycle and to set annual targets for these measures with reference to the business plans approved by the Board. The financial measures used for the AIP will typically include profit, cash and capital adequacy. For the measures used in 2013 and 2014 please refer to our annual report on remuneration. Jackson’s profitability and other key financial measures determine the value of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool. 217 Table of Contents The current weighting of the performance measures are: Financial Personal Group Investment Director1 50 % 50 % Chief Executive, UK & Europe 80 % 20 % Chief Executive, M&G 80 % 20 % Chief Financial Officer 80 % 20 % Chief Executive, PCA 80 % 20 % Group Chief Executive 80 % 20 % President & CEO, JNL2 80 % 20 % 1. The Group Investment Director is responsible for oversight of Prudential’s investment activities, with particular emphasis on ensuring alignment to the Group’s risk appetite. The weighting of his bonus objectives reflect this role. 2. The President & CEO, JNL also participates in the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool. The whole of the Pool is determined by financial performance. John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014, and Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on the same date. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for further context on the disclosure above and additional details. The Committee retains the discretion to adjust and/or set different performance measures if events occur (such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and/or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions) which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose. Deferred bonus shares Operation All executive directors are required to defer a percentage of their total annual bonus into Prudential shares. Currently all directors defer 40 per cent of bonus for three years. Determining the release of the award When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the released shares, during the deferral period. The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding deferred award. This power could be invoked in specific circumstances, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a material breach of a law or regulation or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period. Unusual circumstances (including change of control) In the event of a corporate transaction (e.g. takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc), the Remuneration Committee will determine whether awards will: • Vest in part or in full, and/or • Continue in accordance with the rules of the Plan; and/or • Lapse and, in exchange, the Participant will be granted an award under any other share or cash incentive plan which the Remuneration Committee, considers to be broadly equivalent to the award. See the ‘Approach to recruitment remuneration’ and ‘Policy for loss of office’ sections, for details of the Committee’s powers in respect of AIP participants joining or leaving the Group. Opportunity The maximum vesting under this arrangement is 100 per cent of the original deferral plus accrued dividend shares. 218 Table of Contents Performance measures The level of the initial deferred bonus awards are determined by the value of the bonus in respect of performance in the previous year as described in the table above. The release of awards is not subject to any further performance conditions. Long-term incentive policy for executive directors Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan (“PLTIP”) Operation Prudential’s policy is that executive directors receive long-term incentive awards with full vesting only achieved if the Company meets stretching performance targets. The Rules of the PLTIP were approved by shareholders in 2013. The Committee will operate this Plan in line with these Rules. Granting awards The PLTIP is a conditional share plan: the shares which are awarded will ordinarily be released to directors after three years to the extent that performance conditions have been met. If performance conditions are not achieved in full, the unvested portion of any award lapses and performance cannot be retested. The levels of award made under the PLTIP in 2014 (as a percentage of salary) are: Group Investment Director – 250% CEO, UK – 225% CEO, M&G – 150% Chief Financial Officer – 250% CEO, PCA – 225% Group Chief Executive – 400% CEO, JNL – 460% The PLTIP has a three-year performance period (although the Committee has the discretion to apply shorter or longer performance periods when the PLTIP is used for buy-out awards on recruitment). Determining the release of the award The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding PLTIP award. This power could be invoked, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a material breach of a law or regulation or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period. The Committee also has the discretion to postpone the vesting date of the award. When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the released shares, between the awards being granted and released. However, the Committee has the discretion to determine that the number of dividend shares should be reduced or forfeited. Unusual circumstances (including change of control) In the case of a corporate transaction (e.g. takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc) the Committee may determine that awards will be exchanged for replacement awards (either in cash or shares) of equal value or be released. Where awards are released the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the performance of the Company, the time elapsed between the date of grant and the relevant event and any other matter which the Remuneration Committee considers relevant or appropriate. 219 Table of Contents The Committee may make amendments to the Rules of the Plan which are minor and to benefit the administration of the Plan, which take account of any changes in legislation, and/ or which obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment. No amendments may be made to the advantage of participants without prior shareholder approval. See the ‘Approach to recruitment remuneration’ and ‘Policy for loss of office’ sections, for details of the Committee’s powers in respect of PLTIP participants joining or leaving the Group. Opportunity The value of shares awarded under the PLTIP (in any given financial year) may not exceed 550 per cent of the executive’s annual basic salary. Awards made in a particular year are usually significantly below this limit. The levels of award in 2014 are shown above. The Committee do not envisage increasing these over the life of the policy and would consult with major shareholders before doing so. In addition, these would be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration and be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM. The maximum vesting under the PLTIP is 100 per cent of the original share award plus accrued dividend shares. Performance measures The performance conditions attached to PLTIP awards are: • Relative TSR (50 per cent of award); and • Group IFRS profit (50 per cent of award); or • Business unit IFRS profit (50 per cent of award). The performance conditions attached to each award is dependent on the role of the executive and will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. The awards made under the PLTIP to the Chief Executive, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition as the IFRS profit of M&G is a performance condition under the M&G Executive LTIP. Relative TSR Relative TSR is measured over three years. 25 per cent of this portion of each award will vest for achieving the threshold level of median increasing to full vesting for meeting the stretch level of upper quartile. TSR is measured against a peer group of international insurers (currently 18) which are similar to Prudential in size, geographic footprint and products. The peer group for each award is disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. IFRS profit Three year cumulative IFRS operating profit is assessed at Group or business unit level. Threshold and maximum achievement levels will be set at the beginning of the performance periods in line with the three year business plan. 25 per cent of this portion of the award will vest for achieving threshold performance increasing to full vesting for meeting stretch targets. The target for Group IFRS operating profit will be disclosed when the performance period ends. Committee discretions For any award made under the PLTIP to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the quality of the Company’s underlying financial performance justifies the level of reward delivered at the end of the performance period. 220 Table of Contents For current awards The Committee may revise the peer group used to measure relative TSR to reflect events such as mergers, demergers, listings and delistings. As set out in the Rules of the PLTIP, which were approved by shareholders at the 2013 AGM, the Committee has the discretion to amend the performance conditions attached to an award if circumstances relevant to the performance condition have changed, and the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition. The Committee will consult with major shareholders before revising performance conditions on outstanding awards under the PLTIP. In addition, these would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration and would be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM. For future awards For new awards, organisations may be included in the peer group if their size, geographic footprint and products become similar to those of the Company. Organisations which no longer meet such criteria may be excluded from the peer group. The Committee retains the ability to adjust and/or set different performance measures (or the weighting of performance conditions) which apply to future long-term incentive awards if events occur (such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and/or divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions) which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose. The Committee will consult with major shareholders before revising performance conditions on future awards under the PLTIP. In addition, these would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration and would be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM. M&G Executive LTIP Operation Granting awards The Chief Executive, M&G currently receives awards under the M&G Executive LTIP. Under this plan an annual award of phantom shares is made with a notional starting share price of £1. The phantom share price at vesting is determined by the performance of M&G over the three year performance period. Determining the release of the award Awards are settled in cash. The Committee has the authority to apply a malus adjustment to all, or a portion of, an outstanding M&G Executive LTIP award. This power could be invoked, for example, if a business decision taken during the performance period led to a material breach of a law or regulation or if there is a material adverse restatement of the accounts for that period. Unusual circumstances (including change of control) In the event of a change of control, the Committee may determine that the award will vest immediately or continue until the original vest date. See the ‘Approach to recruitment remuneration’ and ‘Policy for loss of office’ sections for details of the Committee’s powers in respect of M&G Executive LTIP participants joining or leaving the Group. 221 Table of Contents Opportunity The Chief Executive, M&G receives an award with an initial value of 300 per cent of salary under the M&G Executive LTIP. The maximum vesting under the M&G Executive LTIP is 100 per cent of the number of phantom shares originally awarded. Performance measures The phantom share price at vesting is currently determined by the increase or decrease in M&G’s profitability with profit and investment performance adjustments also applied. Where the investment performance of M&G’s funds is in the top two quartiles during the three-year performance period, the value of phantom shares vesting will be enhanced. The value of phantom shares may be doubled if performance is in the top quartile. Investment performance in the bottom quartile will result in awards being forfeited, irrespective of any profit growth. If profits in the third year of the performance period are less than the average annual profit generated over the performance period the award will be reduced, potentially down to zero. Share ownership guidelines for executive directors Operation The share ownership guidelines for the executive directors were increased as part of the review of remuneration architecture approved by shareholders in 2013. The revised guidelines, effective from 1 January 2013, are: • 350 per cent of salary for the Group Chief Executive; and • 200 per cent of salary for other executive directors. Executives have five years from the implementation of this policy (or the date of their appointment, if later) to build this level of ownership. Shares earned and deferred under the Annual Incentive Plan are included in calculating the executive director’s shareholding for these purposes. Unvested share awards under long-term incentive plans are not included. Progress against the share ownership guidelines is detailed in the “Statement of directors’ shareholdings” section of the Annual Report on Remuneration. Variable pay policy for executive directors (legacy plans) Group Performance Share Plan (“GPSP”) and Business Unit Performance Plan (“BUPP”) Operation Prior to the approval of the PLTIP, the Group Performance Share Plan and the Business Unit Performance Plan were the principal long-term incentive plans operated for executive directors. All executive directors were eligible to participate in the GPSP. The Chief Executive, UK & Europe, Chief Executive, PCA and President & CEO, JNL also received awards under the Business Unit Performance Plan. The GPSP & BUPP are conditional share plans: the shares which were awarded will be released to directors to the extent that performance conditions have been met, over the three-year performance period. Determining the release of the award The Committee has the discretion to reduce the proportion of an award that will vest or determine that an award will be forfeited or to postpone the vesting date of the award to allow the Committee to consider whether any part of the award should vest. 222 Table of Contents When awards are released they are increased to reflect the number of shares which could have been purchased with the dividends paid on the released shares, during the performance period. However, the Committee has the discretion to determine that the number of dividend shares should be reduced or forfeited. Unusual circumstances (including change of control) If an award vests early as a result of a corporate transaction (e.g. takeover, merger, winding up, rights issue etc) awards may be exchanged for replacement award (either in cash or shares) of equal value or released. Where the awards are released the Remuneration Committee will have regard to the performance of the Company, the time elapsed between the date of grant and the relevant event and any other matter which the Remuneration Committee considers relevant or appropriate. See the ‘Approach to recruitment remuneration’ and ‘Policy for loss of office’ sections for details of the Committee’s powers in respect of GPSP and BUPP participants joining or leaving the Group. Opportunity The maximum award which could be made to a participant under the GPSP and BUPP in total in any year was 550 per cent of salary. The maximum vesting under the GPSP and BUPP is 100 per cent of the original award plus accrued dividends. Performance measures GPSP GPSP awards normally vest on the basis of the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance. TSR is the combination of the share price growth and the dividends paid. Awards made prior to 2013 are subject to Prudential’s TSR achievement over the performance period compared with the TSR of an index composed of international insurers. For threshold performance of meeting the index, 25 per cent of the award vests. This increases on a straight-line basis to 75 per cent vesting for performance of 110 per cent of the index and full vesting for 120 per cent of the index. The same performance condition also applies to the UK BUPP. The peer group for outstanding awards made is disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. The Remuneration Committee may revise this peer group to reflect events such as mergers, demergers and delistings. Some awards were granted using alternative performance conditions, e.g. UK IFRS operating profit and TSR on a ranked basis where the Committee considered it appropriate. Asia BUPP Asia BUPP awards are dependent on the achievement of PCA’s new business profit, IFRS profit and cash remittance measured over a cumulative three-year period. Each of these measures will determine vesting of one third of each award. Threshold performance results in 30 per cent of the award vesting increasing to 100 per cent for stretch performance. Jackson BUPP Vesting of awards made under the Jackson BUPP are dependent on Shareholder Capital Value (SCV) growth over the performance period. At threshold performance of 8 per cent compound annual growth in SCV, 30 per cent of the award vests. This increases on a straight-line basis to 75 per cent vesting for 10 per cent growth, and full vesting for 12 per cent compound annual growth in SCV. 223 Table of Contents Committee discretions In addition, for any award made under the GPSP or the BUPP to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that the quality of the Company’s underlying financial performance justifies the level of reward delivered at the end of the performance period. If performance measures are not achieved in full, the unvested portion of any award lapses and performance cannot be retested. As set out in the rules of the GPSP and BUPP the Committee has the discretion to amend the performance conditions attached to an award if circumstances relevant to the performance condition have changed and the Committee is satisfied that the amended measure will be a fairer measure of performance and no more or less demanding than the original condition. The Committee may make amendments to the Rules of the Plan which are minor and to benefit the administration of the Plan, which take account of any changes in legislation, and/ or which obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment. No amendments may be made to the advantage of participants without prior shareholder approval. Notes to the Remuneration Policy Table for executive directors Determining the performance measures The Committee selected the performance measures which currently apply to variable pay plans on the following basis: AIP The performance measures are selected to incentivise the delivery of the Group’s business plan, specifically to ensure that financial objectives are delivered whilst maintaining adequate levels of capital. Executives are also rewarded for the achievement of personal objectives. These personal objectives include the executive’s contribution to Group strategy as a member of the Board and specific goals related to their functional and/or business unit role. PLTIP Awards made under the PLTIP are currently subject to the achievement of IFRS profit targets and Relative TSR. IFRS profit was selected as a performance measure because it is central to the management of the business and a key driver of shareholder value. Relative TSR was selected as a performance measure because it focuses on the value delivered to shareholders – aligning the long term interests of shareholders with those of executives. There is one exception; awards made under the PLTIP to the CEO, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition. His annual awards under the M&G Executive LTIP (see below) are subject to an IFRS profit target, thereby ensuring that he has the same combination of performance targets as other executives. M&G Executive LTIP The performance measures under the M&G Executive LTIP are currently M&G’s IFRS operating profit and investment performance. IFRS profit was selected as a performance measure as it is central to the management of the business and a key driver of shareholder value. Investment performance was selected as a performance measure as it is the principal measure of the relative return which M&G provides to its investors and is crucial in ensuring the long-term success of M&G. GPSP The performance measure under the GPSP is Relative TSR. Relative TSR was selected as a performance measure because it focuses on the value delivered to shareholders—aligning the long term interests of shareholders with those of executives. 224 Table of Contents Asia BUPP The performance measures under the PCA BUPP are PCA IFRS operating profit, PCA new business profit and PCA cash remittances. These measures were selected as performance measures because they reflected the growth and cash strategy of PCA. Jackson BUPP The performance measure under the Jackson BUPP is shareholder capital value growth. This was selected as a performance measure because it is an estimation of the shareholder value created by the Jackson business over the performance period. UK BUPP The performance measure under the UK BUPP is Relative TSR. Relative TSR was selected as a performance measures for the UK BUPP because this aligned the UK business with the Group performance measure in order to reflect the cash generative priorities of the UK business. Setting the performance ranges Where variable pay has performance conditions based on business plan measures (for example the AIP and the IFRS profit element of the PLTIP) the performance ranges are set by the Remuneration Committee prior, to or at the beginning of, the performance period. Performance is based on annual and longer-term plans approved by the Board. These reflect the long-term ambitions of the Groups and business units, in the context of anticipated market conditions. For market-based performance conditions (e.g. Relative TSR and M&G investment performance) the Committee requires that performance is in the upper quartile, relative to Prudential’s peer group, for awards to vest in full. Key differences between directors’ remuneration and the remuneration of other employees Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance. Each business unit’s salary increase budget is set with reference to local market conditions. The Remuneration Committee considers salary increase budgets in each business unit when determining the salaries of executive directors. The principles that apply to executive directors are cascaded to other employees in their business unit. All senior leaders in the Group participate in annual bonus schemes which have performance conditions which mirror the CEO for their business unit. In addition, they are eligible to receive awards under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan or the M&G Executive LTIP with performance conditions aligned to those which apply to executive directors. Legacy payments Any commitment made before either (i) 27 June 2012 or (ii) an individual becoming a director, will be honoured even where it is not consistent with the policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled. References to ‘shares’ In this report, references to shares include American Depository Receipts (ADRs). Directors may receive awards denominated in ADRs rather than shares, depending on their location. 225 Table of Contents Scenarios of total remuneration The chart below provides an illustration of the future total remuneration for each executive director in respect of remuneration opportunity for 2014. Three scenarios of potential outcome are provided based on underlying assumptions shown in the notes to the chart. Notes The scenarios in the chart above have been calculated on the following assumptions: Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Fixed pay —Base salary at 1 January 2014. —Pension allowance at 1 January 2014. —Estimated value of benefits based on amounts paid in 2013. —Barry Stowe and Mike Wells are paid in HK$ and US$ respectively and have been converted to GBP for the purposes of this chart. Annual bonus Nobonuspaid. —50% of maximum AIP.—JNL bonus poolat the average ofthe last three years. —100% of maximum AIP.—JNL bonus poolat highest of thelast three years. Long Term Incentives (excludes share price growth and dividends) No longtermincentivevesting —62.5% of awardunder Prudential LTIP(midway between threshold and maximum).—100% of face valueof M&G Executive LTIP. —100% ofaward under Prudential LTIP.—200% of facevalue of M&GExecutive LTIP. John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014, and Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on the same date. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for further context on the disclosure above and additional details. 226 Table of Contents Approach to recruitment remuneration The table below outlines the approach that Prudential will take when recruiting a new executive director. This approach would also apply to internal promotions. The approach to recruiting a non-executive director or a non-executive Chairman is outlined in the ‘Remuneration Policy for non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman’ Element Principles Potential variations Base pay The salary, benefits and pension for a new executive director will be set using the approach set out in the table of ‘Fixed pay policy for executive directors’. Variable remuneration opportunity The variable remuneration opportunities for a new executive director would be consistent with the limits and structures outlined in the variable pay policy table. Awards and contractual rights forfeited when leaving previous employer On joining the Board from within the Group the Committee may allow an executive to retain any outstanding deferred bonus and/ or long-term incentive awards and/or other contractual arrangements which they held on their appointment. These awards (which may have been made under plans not listed in this Policy) would remain subject to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule applied to them when they were awarded. If a newly appointed executive director forfeits one or more bonuses (including outstanding deferred bonuses) on leaving a previous employer, these payments or awards may be replaced in either cash or Prudential shares with an award of an equivalent value. Replacement awards will be released on the same schedule as the foregone awards. If a newly appointed executive director forfeits one or more long-term incentive awards on leaving a previous employer, these may be replaced with Prudential awards with an equivalent value. Replacement awards will generally be made under the terms of a long-term incentive plan approved by shareholders, and vest on the same schedule as the foregone awards. Performance conditions will be applied to awards replacing foregone long term incentive awards; these will be the same as those applied to the long-term incentive awards made to Prudential executives in the year in which the forfeited award was made. The Committee may consider compensating a newly appointed executive for other relevant contractual rights forfeited when leaving their previous employer. The use of the UK Listing Rule 9.4.2 to facilitate the recruitment of an executive director is now only relevant in ‘unusual circumstances.’ The Committee does not anticipate using this Rule but reserves the right to do so in an exceptional circumstance. For example, this rule may be required if, for any reason, like-for-like replacement awards on recruitment could not be made under existing plans. This provision would only be used to compensate for remuneration forfeited on leaving a previous employer. Any arrangement established to replace foregone long term incentive awards would reflect, as far as possible, the terms of the original award (including, if applicable, any performance conditions). The value of this would be capped to be no higher, on recruitment, than the awards which the individual had to surrender to be recruited. 227 Table of Contents Policy on payment on loss of office Element Principle Potential variations Notice periods The Company’s policy is that executive directors’ service contracts will not require the Company to give an executive more than 12 months’ notice without prior shareholder approval. A shorter notice period may be offered where this is in line with market practice in an executive’s location. The Company is required to give to, and to receive from, each of the current executive directors 12 months’ notice of termination unless indicated in this table. An executive director whose contract is terminated would be entitled to 12 months’ salary and benefits in respect of their notice period. Payments are phased over the notice period although a payment in lieu of notice may be made. Any executive leaving the Group other than by way of their death or disablement would have a duty to mitigate their loss. If an executive director is dismissed for cause their contract would be terminated with immediate effect and they would not receive any payments in relation to their notice period. Should an executive die whilst serving as an employee their estate would not be entitled to receive payments and benefits in respect of their notice period—provisions are made under the Company’s life assurance scheme to provide for this circumstance (see ‘Benefits’ in the “fixed pay policy for executive directors”). Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, they would not receive any payment in lieu of notice in respect of their service as a director. The contract for Mike Wells is a renewable one-year fixed term contract, renewable automatically on the same terms and conditions unless the Company or the director gives at least 90 days’ notice prior to the end of the relevant term. The contract for Michael McLintock requires that he gives the Company six months’ notice of termination. Outstanding deferred bonus awards The treatment of outstanding deferred bonuses will be decided by the Committee taking into account the circumstances of the departure including the performance of the director. Deferred bonus awards are normally retained by participants leaving the Company. Awards made in respect of performance in, or before, 2012 will be released shortly after the end of employment. Awards made in respect of performance in 2013, and subsequent years, will vest on the original timetable. Prior to release, awards remain subject to the malus terms originally applied to them. Any executive director dismissed for cause would forfeit all outstanding deferred bonus awards. Should an executive die whilst serving as an employee outstanding deferred bonus awards will be released as soon as possible after the date of death. Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, they would retain any outstanding deferred bonus awards. These awards would remain subject to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule applied to them when they were awarded. 228 Table of Contents Element Principle Potential variations Outstanding long-term incentive awards The treatment of outstanding long term incentives will be decided by the Committee taking into account the circumstances of the departure including the performance of the director. Executives will normally retain their outstanding long-term incentive awards. These awards will ordinarily be prorated based on time employed, will vest on the original timescale and will remain subject to the original performance conditions assessed over the entire performance period. Any executive director dismissed for cause would forfeit all outstanding long-term incentive awards. The release of awards may be expedited in the case of the death of a participant. Awards made under the M&G Executive LTIP will be released immediately should the director leave due to disablement or death and would be prorated based on time employed. Should an executive director step down from the Board but remain employed by the Group, an executive would retain any outstanding long term incentive awards which they held on their change of role. These awards would remain subject to the original Rules, performance conditions and vesting schedule. Bonus for final year of service The payment of a bonus for the final year of service will be decided by the Committee giving full consideration to the circumstances of the departure including the performance of the director. The Committee may award a departing executive a bonus which will usually be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the final financial year in which they served which had elapsed on the last day of their employment. Any such bonus would be calculated with reference to individual and financial performance measures in the usual way. The Committee may determine that a portion of such a bonus must be deferred. Any executive director dismissed for cause would not be eligible for any outstanding bonus payments. The Committee may decide to award an executive stepping down from the Board but remaining with the Group a bonus pro-rated to reflect the portion of the financial year which had elapsed on the date of their change of role. This would be calculated with reference to individual and financial performance measures in the usual way. The Committee may determine that a portion of such a bonus must be deferred. 229 Table of Contents Element Principle Potential variations Other payments Consistent with other employees in their business unit, executive directors may receive payments to compensate them for the loss of employment rights on termination. Payments may include: • A nominal amount for agreeing to non-solicitation and confidentiality clauses; • Directors and Officers insurance cover for a specified period following the executives’ termination date; • Payment for outplacement services; and • Reimbursement of legal fees. The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: • In discharge of an existing legal obligation (or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation); or • By way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a director’s office or employment. Service contracts Executive directors’ service contracts provide details of the broad types of remuneration to which they are entitled, and about the kinds of plans in which they may be invited to participate. The service contracts offer no certainty as to the value of performance-related reward and confirms that any variable payment will be at the discretion of the Company. All of the remuneration obligations placed on the Company by service contracts and letters of engagement are set out elsewhere in this Directors’ Remuneration Policy. Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group Across the Group, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the context of their local market and given their individual skills, experience and performance. Each business unit’s salary increase budget is set with reference to local market conditions. The Remuneration Committee considers salary increase budgets in each business unit when determining the salaries of executive directors. Prudential does not consult with employees when setting the directors’ remuneration policy: Prudential is a global organisation with employees, and agents in multiple business units and geographies. As such, there are practical challenges associated with consulting with employees directly on this matter. As many employees are also shareholders, they will be able to participate in the binding vote on the Director Remuneration Policy. 230 Table of Contents Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Company undertake regular consultation with key institutional investors on the remuneration policy and implementation. This engagement is led by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and is an integral part of the Company’s investor relations programme. The Committee is grateful to shareholders for the feedback which is provided and takes this into account when determining executive remuneration. 231 Table of Contents Remuneration Policy for non-executive directors and the non-executive Chairman Fees Benefits Share Ownership Guidelines Non-executive directors All non-executive directors receive a basic fee for their duties as a Board member. Additional fees are paid for added responsibilities such as chairmanship and membership of committees or acting as the Senior Independent Director. Fees are paid to non-executives in cash, subject to the appropriate deductions. The basic and additional fees are reviewed annually by the Board with any changes effective from 1 July. In determining the level of fees the Board considers: • The time commitment and other requirements of the role; • Group financial performance; • Salary increases for all employees; and • Benchmark information from appropriate markets. If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is materially greater than usual, the Company may determine that the provision of additional fees is fair and reasonable. Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans. Non-executive directors are not eligible to receive benefits, a pension allowance or to participate in the Group’s employee pension schemes. Travel and expenses for non-executive directors (including the Chairman) are incurred in the normal course of business, for example in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings. The costs associated with these are all met by the Company. In July 2011, a share ownership guideline for non-executive directors was introduced. It is expected that non-executive directors will hold shares with a value equivalent to one times the annual basic fee (excluding additional fees for chairmanship and membership of any committees). Non-executive directors will be expected to attain this level of share ownership within three years of the implementation of this requirement (or within three years of their date of appointment, if later). Non-executive Chairman The Chairman receives an annual fee for the performance of their role. This fee is agreed by the Remuneration Committee and is paid to the Chairman in cash, subject to the appropriate deductions. On appointment, the fee may be fixed for a specified period of time. Following the fixed period (if applicable) this fee will be reviewed annually. Changes in the fee are effective from 1 July. In determining the level of the fee for the Chairman the Committee considers: • The time commitment and other requirements of the role; • The performance and experience of the Chairman; • Internal relativities; • Company financial performance; • Salary increases for all employees; and • Benchmark information from appropriate markets. The Chairman is not eligible to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans. The Chairman may be offered benefits including: • Health and wellness benefits • Protection and security benefits • Transport benefits • Relocation and expatriate benefits (where appropriate) The maximum paid will be the cost to the Company of providing these benefits. The Chairman is not eligible to receive a pension allowance or to participate in the Group’s employee pension schemes. The Chairman has a share ownership guideline of one times his annual fee and is expected to attain this level of share ownership within five years of the date of his appointment. 232 Table of Contents Recruitment of a new non-executive chairman or non-executive director The fees for a new non-executive director will be consistent with the current basic fee paid to other non-executive directors (as set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration for that year) and will be reflective of their additional responsibilities as Chair and/or members of Board committees. The fee for a new non-executive Chairman will be set with reference to the time commitment and other requirements of the role, the experience of the candidate, as well as internal relativities among the other executive and non-executive directors. To provide context for this decision, data would be sought for suitable market reference point(s). Notice periods—non executive directors and non-executive Chairman Non-executive directors are appointed pursuant to letters of appointment with notice periods of six months without liability for compensation. A contractual notice period of 12 months by either party applies for the non-executive Chairman. The Chairman would not be entitled to any payments for loss of office. For information on the Terms of Appointment for non-executive directors please see the ‘Board Practices’ section of the report. Annual Report on Remuneration Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014 Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014. Mr Bouée’s base salary is £630,000. His annual bonus has a maximum potential of 160 per cent of base salary, of which 40 per cent is required to be deferred for three years. His 2014 LTI award is 250 per cent of base salary. Mr Bouée’s interest in shares of Prudential plc on appointment to the Board consisted of a total beneficial interest in 80,686 shares (representing 0.0031 per cent of issued share capital) and 237,972 shares subject to performance conditions. Mr Bouée has not been appointed for a fixed term but his service contract dated 6 August 2013 contains a notice provision under which either party may terminate upon 12 months’ notice. On 1 April 2014, John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board and will continue in his role as Group Investment Director. John Foley was in receipt of an annual salary of £648,000 during the period he served as an executive director in 2014; this salary was paid monthly until he ceased to be an executive director on 1 April 2014, together with the provision of pension and benefits as disclosed in this Compensation section. Mr Foley continues to be eligible to be considered for an annual bonus in respect of his employment as an executive director to 1 April 2014 of up to 160 per cent of salary; this will be pro-rated for time served and calculated and paid in the normal way in March 2015. Forty per cent of this bonus will be deferred for three years. On stepping down from the Board, Mr Foley received no loss of office payment and his outstanding share awards under deferred bonus and long-term incentive plans will continue to vest on the normal timescale and subject to original performance conditions. Remuneration in respect of performance in 2013 Base salary Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed in 2012 with changes effective from 1 January 2013. When the Remuneration Committee took these decisions it considered the salary increases awarded to other employees, the performance and experience of each executive, and the relative size of each directors’ role, as well as the 233 Table of Contents performance of the Group. Salary increases for the wider workforce vary across our business units, varying with local market conditions; in 2013 salary budgets increased between three per cent and six per cent for the wider workforce. To provide context for this review, information was also drawn from the following market reference points: Director Role Benchmark(s) used to assess remuneration Rob Devey Chief Executive, UK & Europe —FTSE 40 —International Insurance Companies John Foley Chief Risk Officer —FTSE 40 Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G —McLagan UK Investment Management Survey Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer —FTSE 40 Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA —International Insurance Companies —Towers Watson Asian Insurance Survey Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive —FTSE 40 —International Insurance Companies Mike Wells President & CEO, JNL —Towers Watson US Financial Services Survey —LOMA US Insurance Survey After careful consideration the Remuneration Committee decided to increase salaries by three per cent as set out below. Executive1 2012 salary 2013 salary (+3%) Rob Devey £600,000 £618,000 John Foley £610,000 £628,300 Michael McLintock £360,000 £370,800 Nic Nicandrou £630,000 £648,900 Barry Stowe HK$ 8,000,000 HK$ 8,240,000 Tidjane Thiam £1,000,000 £1,030,000 Mike Wells US$1,050,000 US$1,081,500 Notes 1. Jackie Hunt was appointed on 5 September 2013. Her salary on joining was £625,000. Annual bonus The Directors’ Remuneration Policy section provides further details of the design of Prudential’s annual bonus plans. 2013 annual bonus opportunities Executive directors’ bonus opportunities, the weighting of performance measures for 2013 and the proportion of annual bonuses deferred are set out below: Maximum AIPopportunity (%of salary) Weighting of measures Financial measures Personalobjectives Deferral requirement Group Business Unit Rob Devey1 160 % 40% of total bonus 20 % 60 % 20 % John Foley 160 % 40% of total bonus 50 % — 50 % Jackie Hunt 160 % 40% of total bonus 20 % 60 % 20 % Michael McLintock2 600 % 40% of total bonus 20 % 60 % 20 % Nic Nicandrou 175 % 40% of total bonus 80 % — 20 % Barry Stowe 160 % 40% of total bonus 20 % 60 % 20 % Tidjane Thiam 200 % 40% of total bonus 80 % — 20 % Mike Wells3 160 % 40% of total bonus 80 % — 20 % 234 Table of Contents Notes 1. The maximum bonus opportunity shown for Rob Devey was his annual opportunity—this was prorated for the portion of 2013 for which he was employed by the Company (to 31 October). Please see the section on “Payment to Past Directors” for details. 2. Michael McLintock’s annual bonus opportunity in 2013 was the lower of 0.75 per cent of M&G’s IFRS profit and six times annual salary. M&G’s IFRS profit in 2013 was £395million. 3. In addition to the AIP, Mike Wells receives a ten per cent share of the Jackson Senior Management Bonus Pool. This is determined by the financial performance of Jackson. 2013 AIP performance measures and achievement Financial performance The financial performance measures set for 2013 are shown below. Prior to the start of the year the Committee set stretching performance ranges for each of these measures. The Committee reviewed the Group’s performance against these ranges at its meeting in February 2014; in all of our key performance metrics the Group’s 2013 results exceed those achieved in 2012. The Committee also reviewed a report from the Group Chief Risk Officer which assessed the achievement of these results in the context of adherence to the Group’s risk appetite and framework. The performance measures, and the relative achievement compared to the performance range, is illustrated below. The Board believe that, due to the commercial sensitivity of these targets, disclosing them may damage the competitive position of the Group. Notes 1. The weighting of each measure within the Group Financial element of the bonus for all executives excluding the Chief Executive, M&G. Weightings for the business unit bonus element vary based on the strategy of each business. 2. In addition, investment performance (measured over a one and three year basis) forms 30 per cent of the Chief Executive, M&G’s annual bonus. Personal performance As set out in our Remuneration Policy, a proportion of the annual bonus for each executive director is based on the achievement of personal objectives. These objectives include the executive’s contribution to Group strategy as a member of the Board and specific goals related to their functional and/or business unit role. 2013 objectives were set for each executive prior to the start of the financial year and performance against these objectives was assessed by the Committee at its meeting in February 2014. 235 Table of Contents 2013 Annual Incentive Plan Payments On the basis of the outstanding performance of the Group and business units, and the Committee’s assessment of each executive’s personal performance, the Committee determined the following 2013 AIP payments: Executive Role 2013 salary AIP Maximum 2013 2013 AIPpayment as apercentage ofmaximum 2013 AIP payment Rob Devey1 Chief Executive, UK & Europe £618,000 160 % 77.4 % £637,776 John Foley Group Investment Director £628,300 160 % 99.9 % £1,004,023 Jackie Hunt Chief Executive, UK & Europe £625,000 160 % 93.4 % £934,375 Michael McLintock2 Chief Executive, M&G £370,800 600 % 100.0 % £2,224,800 Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer £648,900 175 % 99.0 % £1,123,895 Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA HK$ 8,240,000 160 % 95.4 % HK$12,579,184 Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive £1,030,000 200 % 99.8 % £2,055,880 Mike Wells3 President & CEO, JNL US$ 1,081,500 160 % 99.2 % US$1,716,773 Notes 1 Rob Devey received a bonus prorated for the portion of 2013 he was employed by the Company (to 31 October 2013). Please see the section on “Payments to past directors” for details. 2 Michael McLintock’s annual bonus opportunity in 2013 was the lower of 0.75 per cent of M&G’s IFRS profit and six times annual salary. M&G’s IFRS profit in 2013 was £395 million. 3 In addition to the AIP Mike Wells also received 10 per cent of the JNL senior management bonus pool. His total bonus including his AIP and JNL Senior Management award is US$5,342,373. 2013 Jackson bonus pool In 2013 the Jackson bonus pool was determined by Jackson’s profitability, capital adequacy, remittances to Group, in-force experience and credit rating. Across all of these measures Jackson delivered excellent performance and exceeded prior year performance. As a result of this performance the Committee determined that Mike Wells’ share of the bonus pool would be US$3,625,600. Long Term Incentive Plans with performance periods ending on 31 December 2013 Our long-term incentive plans have performance conditions which are based on the Groups’ business priorities. When the Committee decided the proportion of these awards which should be released, actual financial results were reviewed against the performance targets set. The Committee also reviewed the underlying Company performance to ensure that these vesting levels were appropriate. The vesting levels are set out below. The Remuneration Policy Report contains further details of the design of Prudential’s long-term incentive plans. Further details may also be found in note B3.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Information on long-term incentives awarded in 2013 is shown in the “long-term incentives awarded in 2013” section of this report. 236 Table of Contents Group Performance Share Plan (GPSP) and UK BUPP awards In 2011, all executive directors were made awards under the GPSP. The line chart below compares Prudential’s TSR during the performance period (1 January 2011 – 31 December 2013) with that of the peer group index TSR. As a result of Prudential’s excellent TSR performance, which was in excess of 140 per cent of the Index, these awards will be released in full: Notes 1. Companies in the peer group for the 2011 GPSP and UK BUPP awards are: Aegon, Allianz, Aviva, Axa, Generali, ING, Legal & General, Manulife, Old Mutual and Standard Life Asia BUPP In 2011 Barry Stowe received an award under the Asia BUPP. This award vests based on the new business profit, IFRS profit and cash remittances of the Asian business. The chart below illustrates the achievement against performance ranges for the 2011 Asia award: M&G Executive Long-Term Incentive Plan The phantom share price at vesting for the 2011 M&G Executive Long-Term Incentive award is determined by the increase or decrease in M&G’s profitability over the three-year performance period with adjustments for the investment performance of its funds. M&G performance and the resulting phantom share price for Michael McLintock is shown below: Award 3 yearprofitgrowth ofM&G 3 yearinvestmentperformance 2013Phantom shareprice 2011 M&G Executive LTIP 61 % Secondquartile £ 2.30 237 Table of Contents Jackson awards In 2010 Mike Wells was granted awards under two legacy long term incentive plans offered to senior staff in Jackson, these awards had a four year performance period. In 2011, following his appointment to the Prudential Board, he received awards under the GPSP and Jackson BUPP. These awards had a three year performance period. Mike Wells’ 2010 JNL awards (the JNL long-term incentive plan and 2010 JNL US Performance Share Plan) will be released in 2014, alongside his 2011 GPSP and BUPP awards. The vesting of these awards are set out below: Jackson BUPP Mike Wells’ 2011 Jackson BUPP award vests subject to Shareholder Capital Value (SCV) growth over the performance period. As a result of excellent SCV growth of 17.7 per cent per annum over the performance period this award will vest in full: Legacy below Board Long-Term Incentive Plans On 31 December 2013, the performance periods for the 2010 awards under the JNL long-term incentive plans (which began on 1 January 2010) came to an end. Over the four year period the shareholder value of the US business grew by 14.33 per cent per annum (on a compound basis) and by 70.848 per cent over the performance period. This resulted in vesting of 121.16 per cent of Mike Wells’ 2010 JNL US Performance Share Plan award and of 70.848 per cent of his 2010 cash-settled JNL Long-Term Incentive Plan award. These were the last awards which Mike Wells received under these plans. Pension entitlements Pension provisions in 2013 were: Executive 2013 pension arrangement Life assurance provision Barry Stowe Pension supplement in lieu of pension of 25 per cent of salary and a HK$30,000 payment to the Hong Kong Mandatory Provident Fund. Four times salary Mike Wells Matching contributions of 6 per cent of base salary capped at US$255,000. An annual profit sharing contribution equivalent to 6 per cent of pensionable salary was made in 2013. Two times salary John Foley Contributions into the defined contribution pension scheme and a cash supplement with a total value of 25 per cent of salary. Up to four times salary plus a dependants’ pension. All other UK-based executives Pension supplement in lieu of pension of 25 per cent of salary Up to four times salary plus a dependants’ pension. 238 Table of Contents Michael McLintock previously participated in a contributory defined benefit scheme which was open at the time he joined the Company. The scheme provided a target pension of two thirds of final pensionable earnings on retirement for an employee with 30 years or more potential service who remains in service to Normal Retirement Date. Mr McLintock is now a deferred member of the scheme. Mr McLintock’s Normal Retirement Date under the scheme is age 60. Should Mr McLintock claim his deferred pension before this age it will be subject to an actuarial reduction. There are no additional benefits payable should Mr McLintock retire early. At the end of 2013 the transfer value of this entitlement was £1,089,263. This equates to an annual pension of £57,378 which will increase broadly in line with inflation in the period before becoming due for payment on Mr McLintock’s retirement. Prior to joining the Board, John Foley participated in a defined benefit scheme. There are no entitlements under this scheme in respect of his service as an executive director. Table of 2013 executive directors total remuneration ‘The Single Figure’ £000’s 2013 salaryand fees 2013 taxablebenefits* 2013 pensionbenefits** 2013 totalbonus Of which: 2013 LTIPreleases† Otherpayments‡ Total 2013remuneration“The SingleFigure”§ Amount paidin cash Amountdeferred intoPrudentialshares Rob Devey1 515 77 129 638 383 255 1,996 129 3,484 John Foley 628 118 157 1,004 602 402 2,114 — 4,021 Jackie Hunt2 199 224 50 935 561 374 1,343 801 3,552 Michael McLintock 371 92 93 2,225 1,335 890 3,704 — 6,485 Nic Nicandrou 649 92 162 1,124 674 450 2,114 — 4,141 Barry Stowe3 679 624 172 1,037 622 415 2,425 — 4,937 Tidjane Thiam 1,030 123 258 2,056 1,234 822 5,189 — 8,656 Mike Wells4 691 58 20 3,415 2,049 1,366 7,549 — 11,733 Total 4,762 1,408 1,041 12,434 7,460 4,974 26,434 930 47,009 * Benefits include (where provided) the cost of providing the use of a car and driver, medical insurance, security arrangements and relocation/expatriate benefits. ** 2013 pension benefits include cash supplements for pension purposes, and contributions into DC schemes as outlined on the previous page. † In line with the regulations, the estimated value of LTIP releases has been calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of 2013. The actual value of LTIPs, based on the share price on the date awards are released, will be shown in the 2014 report. ‡ Other payments comprises of pay in lieu of salary and pension supplement for Rob Devey over the period 1 November 2013 - 31 December 2013 and a cash payment to Jackie Hunt in respect of shares forfeited when leaving Standard Life, the net value of which was used to purchase Prudential shares. Further information is outlined in the ‘Recruitment arrangements’ section. There were no malus adjustments in 2013. § Each remuneration element is rounded to the nearest £1,000 and totals are the sum of these rounded figures. Total Remuneration is calculated using the methodology prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Companies Act. Notes 1 Rob Devey left the Company on 31 October 2013 2 Jackie Hunt joined the Company on 5 September 2013. Her benefits included a one-off relocation payment of £188,679 to cover additional expenses such as stamp duty and estate agent fees. 3 Barry Stowe’s benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of £224,612 for housing, £35,230 for children’s education, £70,452 for home leave and a £252,142 Executive Director Location Allowance. 4 Mike Wells’ bonus figure excludes a contribution of £9,779 from a profit sharing plan which has been made into a 401(k) retirement plan. This is included under 2013 pension benefits. 239 Table of Contents Table of 2012 executive director total remuneration “The Single Figure” £000’s 2012 salary/fees 2012benefits* 2012pensionbenefits** Total2012bonus Of which: 2012LTIPreleases† Total 2012remuneration:“The SingleFigure”‡ Amountpaid incash AmountdeferredintoPrudentialshares Rob Devey 600 114 150 710 426 284 2,510 4,084 John Foley 610 156 153 976 586 390 — 1,895 Michael McLintock1 360 124 311 1,308 904 404 3,414 5,517 Nic Nicandrou 630 99 158 1,092 655 437 2,510 4,489 Barry Stowe2 651 608 165 1,022 613 409 3,036 5,482 Tidjane Thiam 1,000 123 250 2,000 1,000 1,000 6,160 9,533 Mike Wells3 663 55 19 2,902 2,031 871 3,634 7,273 Total 4,514 1,279 1,206 10,010 6,215 3,795 21,264 38,273 * The value of benefits is the cost to the Company of providing core and additional benefits. The value of some benefits included in the 2012 benefits calculation (for example life assurance) have not been included in 2013 taxable benefits information as they are not subject to UK tax. The 2012 number has not been restated from the 2012 report as the differences are not considered significant. ** 2012 pension benefits includes amounts paid as cash supplements, employers contributions into DC schemes and the 2012 increase in transfer value in Michael McLintock’s DB pension as set out in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report. In the 2012 report these amounts were shown in two columns: ‘Cash supplements for pension purposes’ and ‘2012 employers pension contributions.’ † The long term incentive values shown above are higher than those reported in the 2012 Annual Report. This is because there was significant share price growth between the final three months of 2012 (used to estimate the value of the awards, in line with the regulations) and the price on 15 March 2013 and 2 April 2013 when long term awards were released. The estimated share price was £8.67 but the actual price on release was £11.54 (15 March 2013) and £10.83 (2 April 2013). Dividend equivalent shares were also added to GPSP and BUPP awards on release. ‡ Each remuneration element is rounded to the nearest £1,000 and totals are the sum of these rounded figures. Total Remuneration is calculated using the methodology prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Companies Act. Notes 1 “The Single Figure” for Michael McLintock for 2012 includes the increase in transfer value of his defined benefit pension. This is outlined in the 2012 Directors’ Remuneration Report. 2 Barry Stowe’s benefits relate primarily to his expatriate status, including costs of £217,567 for housing, £32,104 for children’s education, £69,289 for home leave and a £248,894 Executive Director Location Allowance. 3 Mike Wells’ bonus figure excludes a contribution of US$15,000 from a profit sharing plan which has been made into a 401(k) retirement plan. This is included under employers pension contribution. 240 Table of Contents Performance graph and table The chart below illustrates the TSR performance of Prudential, the FTSE 100 and International Insurers over the past five years. The information in the table below shows the total compensation for the Group Chief Executive over the period: £000 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Group Chief Executive Mark Tucker Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Tidjane Thiam Salary, pension and benefits 1,013 286 1,189 1,241 1,373 1,411 Annual bonus payment 841 354 1,570 1,570 2,000 2,056 (As % of maximum) (92%) (90%) (97%) (97%) (100%) (99.8%) Long-term incentive vesting 1,575 — 2,534 2,528 6,160 5,189 (As % of maximum) (100%) — (100%) (100%) (100%) (100%) Other payments 308 — — — — — Group Chief Executive Single figure of total remuneration 3,737 640 5,293 5,339 9,533 8,656 Notes 1 Mark Tucker left the Company on 30 September 2009. Tidjane Thiam became Group Chief Executive on 1 October 2009. The figures shown for Tidjane Thiam’s remuneration in 2009 relate only to his service as Group Chief Executive. 241 Table of Contents Non-executive director remuneration in 2013 Chairman’s fees The annual fee paid to the Chairman, Paul Manduca, remained unchanged at £600,000. Non-executive director fees An increase of just under 3 per cent was made to the basic non-executive fee with effect from 1 July 2013. Increases were made to the additional fees paid to chairmen of the Remuneration Committee and Risk Committee and a fee for membership of the Nomination Committee of £10,000 per annum was introduced. These changes reflect the increased time commitment involved in these roles. The revised fees are shown below: Annual Fees From 1 July2012 (£) From 1 July2013 (£) Basic fee 87,500 90,000 Additional fees: Audit Committee Chairman 70,000 70,000 Audit Committee member 25,000 25,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman 50,000 60,000 Remuneration Committee member 25,000 25,000 Risk Committee Chairman 60,000 65,000 Risk Committee member 25,000 25,000 Nomination Committee member — 10,000 Senior Independent Director 50,000 50,000 Note 1 If, in a particular year, the number of meetings is materially greater than usual, the Company may determine that the provision of additional fees is fair and reasonable. The resulting fees paid to non-executives are: £000s 2013 fees 2012 fees 2013taxablebenefits * 2012benefits Total 2013remuneration:“The SingleFigure”† Total 2012remuneration:“The SingleFigure” Chairman 600 393 129 71 729 464 Paul Manduca1 Non-executive directors Keki Dadiseth2 40 120 — — 40 120 Howard Davies 181 171 — — 181 171 Michael Garrett3 75 111 — — 75 111 Ann Godbehere 189 181 — — 189 181 Alistair Johnston 114 111 — — 114 111 Kai Nargolwala 139 136 — — 139 136 Anthony Nightingale4 67 n/a — — 67 n/a Philip Remnant4 194 n/a — — 194 n/a Alice Schroeder4 64 n/a — — 64 n/a Lord Turnbull 174 161 — — 174 161 Total 1,837 1,384 129 71 1,966 1,455 * Benefits include the cost of providing the use of a car and driver, medical insurance and security arrangements. The value of some benefits included in the 2012 benefits calculation (for example life assurance) have not been included in 2013 taxable benefits 242 Table of Contents information as they are not subject to UK tax. The 2012 number has not been restated from the 2012 report as the differences are not considered significant. † Each remuneration element is rounded to the nearest £1,000 and totals are the sum of these rounded figures. Total Remuneration is calculated using the methodology prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Companies Act. The Chairman and non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in annual bonus plans or long-term incentive plans. Notes 1. Paul Manduca was appointed as Chairman on 2 July 2012. The figures for 2012 above include the fees he received as the Senior Independent Director prior to his appointment as Chairman. 2. Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. In 2013, he was paid an allowance of £2,999 in respect of his accommodation expenses in London while on Company business during the period he served as a non-executive director. In 2012 this totalled £8,997. This is included in the fees shown above. 3. Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013. 4. Anthony Nightingale, Philip Remnant and Alice Schroeder did not serve as non-executive directors during 2012. Long-term incentives awarded in 2013 2013 share-based long-term incentive awards The table below shows the awards made to executive directors in 2013 under share based long-term incentive plans and the performance conditions attached to these awards: Executive Role Face value ofaward(% of salary) Face value ofaward*£s Percentage ofaward releasedfor achievingthresholdtargets** End ofperformanceperiod Weighting of performance conditions Group TSR IFRS Profit Group Asia US UK John Foley Group Investment Director 250 % 1,570,745 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Jackie Hunt1 Chief Executive, UK & Europe 225 % 1,406,282 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Michael McLintock2 Chief Executive, M&G 150 % 556,196 25 % 31-Dec-15 100 % Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer 225 % 1,460,023 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Barry Stowe Chief Executive, PCA 225 % 1,563,811 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 400 % 4,119,988 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Mike Wells President & CEO, JNL 460 % 3,257,930 25 % 31-Dec-15 50 % 50 % Notes: * Awards for executive directors are calculated based on the average share price over the three dealing days prior to the awards being granted (22 May 2013) ** The percentage of award released for achieving maximum targets is 100 per cent. 1 Jackie Hunt’s award was granted on 7 October 2013. The number of shares awarded was calculated using the same share price as used for the other executive directors. Jackie Hunt was also made awards to replace long-term incentives forfeited when she left Standard Life. These are outlined under Recruitment arrangements. 2 The awards made under the PLTIP to the Chief Executive, M&G are subject only to the TSR performance condition. The IFRS profit of M&G is a performance condition under the M&G Executive LTIP. 3 Rob Devey also received a long-term incentive award in 2013. Please see the section on “Payments to Past Directors” for details of the award and the performance conditions attached to it. Group TSR performance will be measured on a ranked basis. 25 per cent of the award will vest for TSR at the median of the peer group increasing to full vesting for performance at the upper quartile. The peer group for 2013 awards is: Aegon Aflac AIA AIG Allianz Aviva AXA Generali Legal & General Manulife MetLife Munich Re Old Mutual Prudential Financial Standard Life Sun Life Financial Swiss Re Zurich Insurance Group Performance ranges for IFRS operating profit measured on a cumulative basis over three years are set at the start of the performance period. Due to commercial sensitivities these are not published in advance but will be disclosed for Group, when awards vest. 243 Table of Contents 2013 cash long-term incentive awards In addition to his PLTIP award Michael McLintock receives an annual award under the M&G Executive LTIP. In 2013 he received the following award: Executive Role Face value ofaward(% of salary) Face value ofaward£s Percentage ofaward releasedfor achievingthresholdtargets End ofperformanceperiod Michael McLintock Chief Executive, M&G 300 % 1,112,400 See note 31-Dec-15 Note The value of the award on vesting will be based on the profitability and investment performance of M&G over the performance period as described in the ‘directors’ remuneration policy’. Statement of directors’ shareholdings The shareholding requirements and share ownership guidelines are outlined below: Articles of Association Share ownership guideline Number of shares Period to meet therequirement1 Where applicable,requirement met? Number of sharesas a percentage ofsalary/ fee Period to meet theguideline2 Where applicable,requirement met? Group Chief Executive 2,500 1year ü 350 % 5years ü Other executive directors 2,500 1year ü 200 % 5years ü Chairman 2,500 1year ü 100 % 5years On course Non-executive directors 2,500 1year ü 100 % 3years ü Notes 1. Holding requirement of the Articles of Association (2,500 ordinary shares) must be obtained within one year of appointment to the Board. 2. The increased guidelines for executive directors were introduced with effect from 1 January 2013. Executive directors have 5 years from this date (or date of joining if later) to reach the enhanced guideline. The guideline for non-executive directors was introduced on 1 July 2011. Non-executive directors have 3 years from this date (or date of joining if later) to reach the guideline. 244 Table of Contents The interests of directors in ordinary shares of the Company are set out below. ‘Beneficial interest’ includes shares acquired under the Share Incentive Plan deferred annual incentive awards and interests in shares awarded on appointment detailed in the ‘Supplementary information’ section. It is only these shares that count towards the share ownership guidelines. 01 Jan 2013 31 Dec 2013 1 Apr 2014 Totalbeneficialinterest(number ofshares) Total beneficialinterest(number ofshares) Beneficialinterest as apercentage ofsalary/basicfee* Number ofshares subjectto performanceconditions** Total interestin shares Total beneficialinterest (numberof shares) ApproximatePercentage ofOrdinary Shares Chairman Paul Manduca 2,500 42,500 95 % — 42,500 42,500 0.002 Executive directors John Foley 323,235 240,047 512 % 483,765 723,812 360,249 0.0140 Jackie Hunt1 — 36,360 78 % 320,430 356,790 121,968 0.0048 Michael McLintock 682,733 453,820 1640 % 142,283 596,103 512,263 0.02 Nic Nicandrou 350,858 302,885 625 % 460,412 763,297 402,781 0.0157 Barry Stowe2 511,231 401,140 792 % 499,090 900,230 490,784 0.0019 Tidjane Thiam 923,839 892,684 1161 % 1,243,213 2,135,897 1,064,272 0.0415 Mike Wells3 591,808 405,844 787 % 1,208,278 1,614,122 736,534 0.0287 Rob Devey4 275,443 n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Non executive directors Howard Davies 3,192 8,316 124 % — 8,316 8,316 0.0003 Ann Godbehere 15,914 15,914 237 % — 15,914 15,914 0.0006 Alistair Johnston 5,000 10,000 149 % — 10,000 10,000 0.0004 Kaikhushru Nargolwala 16,000 50,000 744 % — 50,000 50,000 0.002 Anthony Nightingale5 — 15,000 223 % — 15,000 15,000 0.0006 Philip Remnant6 — 4,709 70 % — 4,709 4,709 0.0002 Alice Schroeder7 — 2,000 30 % — 2,000 2,000 0.0001 Lord Turnbull 16,624 16,624 248 % — 16,624 16,624 0.0006 Keki Dadiseth8 32,196 n/a n/a — n/a n/a n/a Michael Garrett9 39,233 n/a n/a — n/a n/a n/a * Based on the closing share price on 31 December 2013 (£13.40) ** Further information on share awards subject to performance conditions are detailed in the “share-based long-term incentive awards” section of the Supplementary Information. Notes 1 Jackie Hunt was appointed to the Board on 5 September 2013. 2 For the 1 January 2013 figure part of Barry Stowe’s beneficial interest in shares is made up of 207,963 ADRs (representing 415,926 ordinary shares) and 95,305 ordinary shares, (8,513.73 of these ADRs are held within an investment account which secures premium financing for a life assurance policy). For the 31 December 2013 the beneficial interest in shares is made up of 200,570 ADRs (representing 401,140 ordinary shares). 3 For the 1 January 2013 figure Mike Wells’ beneficial interest in shares is made up of 295,904 ADRs (representing 591,808 ordinary shares). For the 31 December 2013 figure his beneficial interest in shares is made up of 202,922 ADRs (representing 405,844 ordinary shares). In the table above, the figure for shares subject to performance conditions includes the maximum number of shares (150 per cent of the original number awarded) which may be released to Mike Wells under the JNL Performance Share Plan. This maximum number of shares may be released if stretch performance targets are achieved. 4 Rob Devey left the Board on 5 September 2013. 5 Anthony Nightingale was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013. 6 Philip Remnant was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013. 7 Alice Schroeder was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2013. For the 31 December 2013 figure her beneficial interest in shares is made up of 1,000 ADRs (representing 2,000 ordinary shares). 8 Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013. 9 Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013. John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014, and Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on the same date. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for additional details. 245 Table of Contents Outstanding share options The following table sets out the share options held by the directors in the UK Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE) as at the end of the period. No other directors held shares in any other option scheme. Exercise period Number of options Date ofgrant Exerciseprice Marketprice at31 Dec2013 Beginning End Beginningof period Granted Exercised Cancelled Forfeited Lapsed End ofperiod John Foley 25 Apr 08 551 1340 01 Jun 13 29 Nov 13 2,953 — 2,953 — — — — John Foley 20 Sep 13 901 1340 01 Dec 16 31 May 17 — 998 — — — — 998 Tidjane Thiam 16 Sep 11 466 1340 01 Dec 14 29 May 15 965 — — — — — 965 Tidjane Thiam 20 Sep 13 901 1340 01 Dec 16 31 May 17 — 499 — — — — 499 Nic Nicandrou 16 Sep 11 466 1340 01 Dec 16 31 May 17 3,268 — — — — — 3,268 Notes 1 A gain of £16,418.68 was made by directors in 2013 on the exercise of SAYE options. 2 No price was paid for the award of any option. 3 The highest and lowest closing share prices during 2013 were 1340 pence and 901.5 pence respectively. 4 All exercise prices are shown to the nearest pence. Directors’ terms of employment Executive directors’ service contracts The Remuneration Policy Report contains further details of the terms included in executive director service contracts. Details of the service contracts of each executive director are outlined below: Executive director Date of contract Notice period to theCompany Notice period from theCompany Rob Devey1 1 July 2009 12 months 12 months John Foley 8 December 2010 12 months 12 months Jackie Hunt 25 April 2013 12 months 12 months Michael McLintock 21 November 2001 6 months 12 months Nic Nicandrou 26 April 2009 12 months 12 months Barry Stowe 18 October 2006 12 months 12 months Tidjane Thiam 20 September 2007 12 months 12 months Mike Wells2 15 October 2010 12 months 12 months Notes 1 Rob Devey left the Company on 31 October 2013. 2 The contract for Mike Wells is a renewable one year fixed term contract. The contract is renewable automatically upon the same terms and conditions unless the Company or the director gives at least 90 days’ notice prior to the end of the relevant term. John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014, and Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on the same date. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for further context on the disclosure above and additional details. Chairman’s letter of appointment Paul Manduca was appointed as a non-executive director on 15 October 2010 and became Senior Independent Director on 1 January 2011. On 2 July 2012 he was appointed Chairman. A contractual notice period of 12 months by either party applies. 246 Table of Contents Non-executive directors’ letters of appointment The Remuneration Policy Report contains further details on non-executive directors’ letters of appointment. Details of their individual appointments are outlined below: Non-executive director Appointment by theBoard Initial election byshareholders atAGM Notice period Expiration ofcurrent term ofappointment Keki Dadiseth1 01 April 2005 AGM 2005 6 months n/a Howard Davies 15 October 2010 AGM 2011 6 months AGM 2014 Michael Garrett2 01 September 2004 AGM 2005 6 months n/a Ann Godbehere 02 August 2007 AGM 2008 6 months AGM 2014 Alistair Johnston 01 January 2012 AGM 2012 6 months AGM 2015 Kaikhushru Nargolwala 01 January 2012 AGM 2012 6 months AGM 2015 Anthony Nightingale3 01 June 2013 AGM 2014 6 months AGM 2014 Philip Remnant 01 January 2013 AGM 2013 6 months AGM 2016 Alice Schroeder3 10 June 2013 AGM 2014 6 months AGM 2014 Lord Turnbull 18 May 2006 AGM 2006 6 months AGM 2015 Notes 1 Keki Dadiseth retired from the Board on 1 May 2013 2 Michael Garrett retired from the Board on 31 August 2013 3 For Anthony Nightingale and Alice Schroeder the table assumes initial election by shareholders at the 2014 AGM External appointments Subject to the Group Chief Executive’s or the Chairman’s approval, executive directors are able to accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other organisations. Any fees paid may be retained by the executive director. During 2013, Michael McLintock received £65,000 as a trustee and non-executive director of another organisation. Jackie Hunt received £45,000 as a non-executive director for another organisation. Other directors served on the boards of educational, development, charitable and cultural organisations without receiving a fee for such services. Recruitment arrangements Pierre-Olivier Bouée Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for additional details. Jackie Hunt On 26 April 2013 it was announced that Jackie Hunt would join Prudential as Chief Executive for UK & Europe. The Remuneration Committee determined that long-term awards forfeited by Ms. Hunt as a consequence of joining Prudential would be replaced on a like-for-like basis, and are subject to Prudential performance criteria. Ms. Hunt was compensated for the loss of her outstanding Standard Life long-term incentive awards with equivalent awards under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan as outlined below: Standard Life Awardbeing replaced Face value ofaward*£s Performancecondition attachedto award** Percentage ofaward released forachieving thresholdtargets† End ofperformanceperiod 2011 Group LTIP 1,185,536 Relative TSR 25% 31-Dec-13 2012 Group LTIP 1,060,994 Relative TSR 25% 31-Dec-14 Notes * The face value of awards was calculated using Standard Life’s 3 days average share price on the date Jackie Hunt joined the Company (September 2013) of £3.389. ** The performance conditions attached to the awards are the same TSR conditions as other GPSP and UK BUPP awards made in the relevant year. † The percentage of award released for achieving maximum targets is 100 per cent. 247 Table of Contents Ms Hunt was not compensated for forfeiting her 2013 Standard Life Group LTIP. Instead a 2013 long-term incentive award was granted to her. Full details of this award are set out in the “Long-term incentives awarded in 2013” section of this report. Ms Hunt forfeited Standard Life deferred bonus awards with a value of £801,210. The Company arranged for these to be replaced with Prudential shares on a like-for-like basis. A cash payment was made to Ms. Hunt in respect of these awards, the net value of which was used to purchase 36,337 shares which will be held in a nominee arrangement on her behalf and released to her in March 2014 and March 2015 (in line with the release dates of the original Standard Life awards). In order for Ms. Hunt to take up the position with Prudential she was required to relocate. To facilitate this, the Committee approved the reimbursement of reasonable removal charges for the transport of household items and of legal fees for the sale and purchase of properties. A one-off payment of £188,679 was made to cover additional expenses such as stamp duty and estate agent fees. Payments to past directors John Foley John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for additional details. Rob Devey On 26 April 2013 it was announced that Rob Devey would leave Prudential at the end of October 2013. In line with his contractual entitlements, Mr Devey will receive a payment in lieu of salary and pension allowance for the period 1 November 2013 to 25 April 2014. This is paid in instalments and is subject to mitigation. The total amount paid will be £378,000. Medical and life assurance cover will be provided until 25 April 2014. The amounts paid in 2013 are included in the ‘Table of 2013 executive director total remuneration’. In 2013 Rob Devey was granted an award under the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan as follows. At vesting the award will be prorated for time employed. It remains subject to the original vesting schedule and to potential future reduction depending on the achievement of performance conditions: Executive Face value ofaward(% of salary) Face value ofaward* £s Percentage ofaward releasedfor achievingthresholdtargets** End of performanceperiod Rob Devey 225% 1,390,497 25% 31-Dec-15 Notes: * The Award is calculated based on the average share price over the three dealing days prior to the award being granted (22 May 2013). ** The percentage of award released for achieving maximum targets is 100% (which will then be prorated for time employed). Fifty per cent of the award will vest subject to Relative TSR and fifty per cent subject to the achievement of UK IFRS profit targets. Further details of the performance conditions are outlined in the “Long-term incentives awarded in 2013” section. The Remuneration Committee used their discretion to determine that outstanding variable awards of pay would be treated in the following ways: • A 2013 bonus prorated for the amount of time Mr Devey was employed by Prudential during the 2013 financial year (to 31 October 2013). A 2013 bonus of £637,776 was awarded; • Sixty per cent of this award was paid in cash and forty per cent was deferred into Prudential shares and will be released in 2016; • Outstanding long term incentive awards were prorated based on the time Mr Devey was employed by Prudential as a proportion of the relevant performance periods. Awards will continue to be subject to the original performance conditions and released on the original timescales. 248 Table of Contents As set out in the section on “Remuneration in respect of performance in 2013”, the performance conditions attached to Rob Devey’s 2011 GPSP and UK BUPP awards were met in full and 100 per cent of the proportion of these awards that were outstanding (34 months out of 36) will be released in 2014. Clark Manning Clark Manning stepped down from his role as President and Chief Executive of Jackson and as an executive director on 31 December 2010. Clark Manning remained Chairman of Jackson until 30 April 2011 and acted in an advisory role until 31 December 2011. The 2010 Directors’ Remuneration Report provided full details of the remuneration arrangements that would apply to Clark Manning after his resignation. These arrangements were implemented as intended by the Committee. The performance conditions attached to the 2010 GPSP and BUPP awards were met in full and awards to Clark Manning were released during 2013 on a pro-rata basis, as disclosed in last year’s report. There are no further outstanding awards. Other directors A number of former directors receive retiree medical benefits for themselves and their partner (where applicable). This is consistent with other senior members of staff employed at the same time. A de minimis threshold of £10,000 has been set by the Committee; any payments, or benefits provided to a past director under this amount will not be reported. Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the amounts paid in respect of 2012 and 2013 on all employee pay and dividends: 2013 2012 Percentage change All employee pay (£m)1 1,562 1,141 36.9 % Dividends (£m) 859 747 15.0 % Notes 1. All employee pay as taken from note B3.1 to the financial statements in Item 18. The figure for 2012 includes an adjustment in respect of pension actuarial gains. Underlying employee pay, excluding social security and pension costs, increased by 13.6%. Further information is set out in the financial statements. Percentage change in remuneration The table below sets out how the change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive between 2012 and 2013 compares to a wider employee comparator group: Salary Benefits Bonus Group Chief Executive 3 % 0 % 2.8 % All UK employees 4.8 % 5.3 % 20.3 % The employee comparator group used for the purpose of this analysis is all UK employees. This includes employees in the UK Insurance Operations business, M&G and Group Head Office and reflects the average change in pay for employees employed in both 2012 and 2013. The salary increase includes uplifts made through the annual salary review as well as any additional changes in the year, for example promotions or role changes. The UK work force has been chosen as the most appropriate comparator group as it reflects the economic environment for the location in which the Group Chief Executive is employed. 249 Table of Contents Statement of implementation in 2014 Executive directors’ salaries were reviewed in 2013 with changes effective from 1 January 2014. When the Committee took these decisions it considered the salary increases awarded to other employees in 2013 and the expected increases in 2014. The Committee also took account of the performance and experience of each executive, and the relative size of each directors’ role, as well as the performance of the Group. The external markets used to provide context to Committee were those used for 2013 salaries, with for the Chief Executive, M&G, an additional benchmark of Asset Management within International Insurance Companies. The 2014 salary increase for the Chief Financial Officer was 5 per cent, all other executive directors received a 3 per cent increase. These uplifts are in line with 2014 salary increase budgets for other employees across our business units (3 per cent – 6 per cent). No changes will be made to executive directors’ maximum opportunities under the annual bonus and long term incentive awards other than for the Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer’s annual long term incentive award increased to 250% of salary. The Chief Financial Officer’s total remuneration opportunity for 2014 has increased by 10%. This reflects the increasing complexity and responsibilities of the role, together with the incumbent’s considerable performance and contribution to the Group. In making this adjustment the Remuneration Committee were mindful of ensuring that the majority of this be provided through long term incentive awards, so that the full value is only realised over the long term and subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions. Major shareholders were consulted on this change prior to implementation. The remuneration packages for 2014 are summarised below: Executive director Role 2014 SalaryIncrease 2014 Salary Maximum AIP(% salary) LTI award(% salary) Maximumbonus Bonusdeferred John Foley Group Investment Director 3 % £648,000 160 % 40 % 250 % Jackie Hunt CEO, UK 3 % £644,000 160 % 40 % 225 % Michael McLintock CEO, M&G1 3 % £382,000 600 % 40 % 450 % Nic Nicandrou Chief Financial Officer 5 % £682,000 175 % 40 % 250 % Barry Stowe CEO, PCA 3 % HK$8,490,000 160 % 40 % 225 % Tidjane Thiam Group Chief Executive 3 % £1,061,000 200 % 40 % 400 % Mike Wells CEO, JNL2 3 % US$1,114,000 160 % 40 % 460 % Notes: 1. The bonus opportunity for the CEO, M&G remains at the lower of 0.75 per cent of M&G’s IFRS profit or six times salary. As with 2013, he will receive awards under the Prudential LTIP and the M&G Executive LTIP, which are both included in the above figure. 2. The CEO, JNL will also continue to have a 10 per cent share of the Jackson senior management bonus pool. 40 per cent of this is deferred in shares. The performance measures attached to 2014 bonuses and long-term incentive awards remain unchanged from those set out in the Remuneration in respect of 2013 section of this report. John Foley, Group Investment Director, stepped down from the Board on 1 April 2014, and Pierre-Olivier Bouée, Group Chief Risk Officer, was appointed to the Board on the same date. See “Changes to the Board on 1 April 2014” for further context on the disclosure above and additional details. 250 Table of Contents SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION Directors’ outstanding long-term incentive awards Share-based long-term incentive awards Planname Yearofaward Conditionalshareawardsoutstandingat 1 Jan 2013(Number ofshares) Conditionalawards in2013(Number ofshares) Marketpriceat dateofaward(pence) Dividendequivalents onvested shares(Number ofsharesreleased)(2) Rightsexercisedin 2013 Rightslapsed in2013 Conditionalshare awardsoutstanding at31 December2013(Number ofshares) Date of end ofperformanceperiod John Foley GPSP 2011 152,484 733.5 152,484 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 199,433 678 199,433 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 131,848 1203 131,848 31-Dec-15 351,917 131,848 483,765 Jackie Hunt PLTIP 2013 106,805 1176 106,805 31-Dec-13 PLTIP 2013 95,585 1176 95,585 31-Dec-14 GPSP 2013 118,040 1176 118,040 31-Dec-15 320,430 320,430 Michael McLintock GPSP 2010 66,238 568.5 7,490 66,238 — 31-Dec-12 GPSP 2011 48,517 733.5 48,517 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 47,079 678 47,079 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 46,687 1203 46,687 31-Dec-15 161,834 46,687 7,490 66,238 142,283 Nic Nicandrou GPSP 2010 208,179 568.5 23,548 208,179 — 31-Dec-12 GPSP 2011 152,484 733.5 152,484 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 185,374 678 185,374 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 122,554 1203 122,554 31-Dec-15 546,037 122,554 23,548 208,179 460,412 Barry Stowe(1) GPSP 2010 129,076 568.5 14,522 129,076 — 31-Dec-12 BUPP 2010 129,076 568.5 13,824 122,880 6,196 — 31-Dec-12 GPSP 2011 88,270 733.5 88,270 31-Dec-13 BUPP 2011 88,270 733.5 88,270 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 95,642 678 95,642 31-Dec-14 BUPP 2012 95,642 678 95,642 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 131,266 1203 131,266 31-Dec-15 625,976 131,266 28,346 251,956 6,196 499,090 Tidjane Thiam GPSP 2010 510,986 568.5 57,806 510,986 — 31-Dec-12 GPSP 2011 374,279 733.5 374,279 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 523,103 678 523,103 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 345,831 1203 345,831 31-Dec-15 1,408,368 345,831 57,806 510,986 1,243,213 Mike Wells(1, 3) JNL PSP 2009 218,100 455.5 218,100 — 31-Dec-12 JNL PSP 2010 141,000 568.5 141,000 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2011 197,648 733.5 197,648 31-Dec-13 BUPP 2011 197,648 733.5 197,648 31-Dec-13 GPSP 2012 199,256 678 199,256 31-Dec-14 BUPP 2012 199,256 678 199,256 31-Dec-14 PLTIP 2013 273,470 1203 273,470 31-Dec-15 1,152,908 273,470 218,100 1,208,278 Notes 1 The awards for Barry Stowe and Mike Wells were made in ADRs (1 ADR = 2 shares). The figures in the table are represented in terms of ordinary shares. 2 In 2010 a scrip dividend equivalent and in 2011, 2012 and 2013 a DRIP dividend equivalent were accumulated on these awards. 3 The table above reflects the maximum number of shares (150 per cent of the original number awarded) which may be released to Mike Wells under the JNL Performance Share Plan. This maximum number of shares may be released if stretch performance targets are achieved. 251 Table of Contents Business-specific cash-based long-term incentive plans Details of all outstanding awards under cash-based long-term incentive plans are set out in the table below. The performance period for all M&G Executive LTIP awards is three years while the performance period for all JNL LTIP awards is four years: Year of initial award Face value ofconditional shareawards outstandingat 1 January 2013£000 Conditionallyawarded in2013£000 Paymentsmade in2013£000 Face value ofconditional shareawards outstandingat 31 December2013£000 Date of end ofperformance period Michael McLintock M&G Executive LTIP 2010 987 2616 — 31-Dec-12 M&G Executive LTIP 2011 1,318 1,318 31-Dec-13 M&G Executive LTIP 2012 953 953 31-Dec-14 M&G Executive LTIP 2013 1,112 1,112 31-Dec-15 Total cash payments made in 2013 2,616 Mike Wells JNL LTIP 2009 894 1,118 — 31-Dec-12 JNL LTIP 2010 906 906 31-Dec-13 Total cash payments made in 2013 1,118 Note Under the M&G Executive LTIP, the value of each unit at award is £1. The value of units changes based on M&G’s profit growth and investment performance over the performance period. For the 2010 award of 987,179 units, the unit price at the end of the performance period was £2.65 which resulted in a payment of £2,616,024 to Michael McLintock during 2013. For the 2011 award of 1,318,148 units, the unit price at the end of the performance period was £2.30. This will result in payment of £3,031,740 to Michael McLintock in 2014. See the annual report on remuneration for a description of the JNL LTIP. Performance over the period from 2009 to 2012 resulted in a payment of £1,117,509 to Mike Wells during 2013. Performance over the period from 2010 to 2013 will result in a payment of £633,946 being paid to Mike Wells in 2014. The awards above were made before Mike Wells became an executive director and it is anticipated that no further awards will be made to him under this Plan. The sterling face value of Mike Wells’ JNL LTIP awards have been calculated using the average exchange rate for the year in which the grant was made. The dollar face value of conditional share awards outstanding on 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2013 was US$2,800,000 and US$1,400,000 respectively. 252 Table of Contents Other share awards The table below sets out the share awards that have been made to executive directors under their appointment terms and those deferred from annual incentive plan payouts. The number of shares is calculated using the average share price over the three business days commencing on the day of the announcement of the Group’s annual financial results for the relevant year. For the awards from the 2012 annual incentives, made in 2013, the average share price was 1124.17 pence. Year ofgrant Conditionalshare awardsoutstandingat 1 Jan 2013(Number ofshares) Conditionallyawardedin 2013(Number ofshares) Dividendsaccumulatedin 2013(2)(Number ofshares) Sharesreleased in2013(Number ofshares) Conditionalshare awardsoutstanding at31 December2013 (Numberof shares) Date of end ofrestricted period Date ofrelease Marketprice atdate ofaward(pence) Marketprice atdate ofvesting orrelease(pence) John Foley Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 46,057 1,189 47,246 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 34,727 896 35,623 31-Dec-15 1055 46,057 34,727 2,085 — 82,869 Michael McLintock Deferred 2009 annual incentive award 2010 77,493 77,493 — 31-Dec-12 02-Apr-13 552.5 1083 Deferred 2010 annual incentive award 2011 80,753 2,085 82,838 31-Dec-13 721.5 Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 37,284 962 38,246 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 35,905 926 36,831 31-Dec-15 1055 195,530 35,905 3,973 77,493 157,915 Nic Nicandrou Deferred 2009 annual incentive award 2010 27,276 27,276 — 31-Dec-12 02-Apr-13 552.5 1083 Deferred 2010 annual incentive award 2011 49,862 1,287 51,149 31-Dec-13 721.5 Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 45,060 1,163 46,223 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 38,836 1,003 39,839 31-Dec-15 1055 122,198 38,836 3,453 27,276 137,211 Barry Stowe(1) Deferred 2009 annual incentive award 2010 40,474 40,474 — 31-Dec-12 02-Apr-13 552.5 1083 Deferred 2010 annual incentive award 2011 58,314 1,522 59,836 31-Dec-13 721.5 Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 52,446 1,368 53,814 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 37,726 984 38,710 31-Dec-15 1055 151,234 37,726 3,874 40,474 152,360 Tidjane Thiam Deferred 2009 annual incentive award 2010 65,482 65,482 — 31-Dec-12 02-Apr-13 552.5 1083 Deferred 2010 annual incentive award 2011 229,515 5,929 235,444 31-Dec-13 721.5 Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 104,719 2,705 107,424 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 88,954 2,297 91,251 31-Dec-15 1055 399,716 88,954 10,931 65,482 434,119 Mike Wells(1) 2009 After Tax Deferral Program award(3) 2010 32,250 32,250 — 15-Mar-13 15-Mar-13 520 1154 Deferred 2010 Group Deferred Bonus Plan award 2011 94,080 2,456 96,536 31-Dec-13 721.5 Deferred 2011 annual incentive award 2012 96,336 2,514 98,850 31-Dec-14 750 Deferred 2012 annual incentive award 2013 80,364 2,096 82,460 31-Dec-15 1055 222,666 80,364 7,066 32,250 277,846 Notes 1 The Deferred Share Awards for Barry Stowe and Mike Wells were made in ADRs. The figures in the table are represented in terms of Prudential shares (1 ADR = 2 Prudential plc shares). 2 In 2010 a scrip dividend equivalent and in 2011, 2012 and 2013 a DRIP dividend equivalent were accumulated on these awards. 3 This award attracts dividends in the form of cash rather than shares. 253 Table of Contents All-employee share plans It is important that all employees are offered the opportunity to own shares in Prudential, connecting them both to the success of the Company and to the interests of other shareholders. Executive directors are invited to participate in these plans on the same basis as other staff in their location. No directors or other employees are provided with loans to enable them to buy shares. • Save As You Earn (SAYE) schemes UK based executive directors are eligible to participate in the HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC) approved Prudential Savings-Related Share Option Scheme and Barry Stowe is invited to participate in the similar International Share Ownership Scheme. These schemes allow all eligible employees to save towards the exercise of options over Prudential plc shares with the option price set at the beginning of the savings period at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the market price. In 2013 participants could elect to enter into savings contracts of up to £250 per month for a period of three or five years. At the end of this term, participants may exercise their options within six months and purchase shares. If an option is not exercised within six months, participants are entitled to a refund of their cash savings plus interest if applicable under the rules. Shares are issued to satisfy those options which are exercised. No options may be granted under the schemes if the grant would cause the number of shares which have been issued, or which remain issuable pursuant to options granted in the preceding 10 years under the scheme and any other option schemes operated by the Company, or which have been issued under any other share incentive scheme of the Company, to exceed 10 per cent of the Company’s ordinary share capital at the proposed date of grant. Details of executive directors’ rights under the SAYE scheme are set out in the “Statement of directors’ shareholdings.” • Share Incentive Plan (SIP) UK based executive directors are also eligible to participate in the Company’s HMRC approved Share Incentive Plan (SIP). In 2013 all UK based employees were able to purchase Prudential plc shares up to a value of £125 per month from their gross salary (partnership shares) through the SIP. For every four partnership shares bought, an additional matching share is awarded which is purchased by Prudential on the open market. Dividend shares accumulate while the employee participates in the plan. If the employee withdraws from the plan, or leaves the Group, matching shares may be forfeited. The table below provides information about shares purchased under the SIP together with Matching Shares (awarded on a 1:4 basis) and dividend shares. Year of initialgrant SIP awardsheld in Trust at1 January 2013(Number ofshares) Partnershipsharesaccumulated in2013(Number ofshares) Matching sharesaccumulated in2013(Number ofshares) Dividend sharesaccumulated in2013(Number ofshares) SIP awardsheld in Trust at31 December2013(Number ofshares) Nic Nicandrou 2010 869 136 34 25 1,064 Jackie Hunt 2013 — 19 4 — 23 Dilution Releases from the Prudential Long Term Incentive Plan, GPSP and BUPP are satisfied using new issue shares rather than by purchasing shares in the open market. Shares relating to options granted under all-employee share plans are also satisfied by new issue shares. The combined dilution from all outstanding shares and options at 31 December 2013 was 0.2 per cent of the total share capital at the time. Deferred shares will continue to be satisfied by the purchase of shares in the open market. 254 Table of Contents Share Ownership Directors shareholdings The current shareholding policy and the interests of directors in ordinary shares of Prudential are shown under the sections ‘Compensation Shareholding guidelines’ and ‘Compensation Directors’ Shareholdings’ above. Prudential is not owned or controlled directly or indirectly by another corporation or by any government or by any other natural or legal person severally or jointly and Prudential does not know of any arrangements that might result in a change in Prudential’s control. In addition, Prudential’s directors held, as at 11 March 2014, options to purchase 5,730 shares, all of which were issued under Prudential’s Savings-Related Share Option Scheme (SAYE). These options and plans are described in more detail below under ‘Options to purchase securities from Prudential’ in this section. Outstanding options of directors and other executive officers The SAYE is open to all UK and certain overseas employees. Options under this scheme up to HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) limits are granted at a 20 per cent discount and cannot normally be exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed. No payment is made for the grant of any options. The share options held by the directors and other executive officers as at the end of period are shown under the section ‘Compensation Outstanding share options’ above. Options to purchase and discretionary awards of securities from Prudential As of 11 March 2014, 9,957,318 options were outstanding, which Prudential issued under the SAYE schemes. As of 11 March 2014 directors and other executive officers held 5,730 of such outstanding options. Except as described above in ‘Outstanding options of directors and other executive officers’, each option represents the right of the bearer to subscribe for one share at a particular pre-determined exercise price at a pre-set exercise date. As of 11 March 2014, 2,016,202 shares were outstanding under the Prudential Jackson National Life US Performance Share Plan. Such outstanding awards held by directors or other executive officers at 31 December 2013, are included in the shares set forth under ‘Long-term incentive plans’ in the ‘Compensation’ section above. As of 11 March 2014, 25,572,707 shares were outstanding under other awards. Of those, 1,335,423 shares were outstanding under the Annual Incentive Plan, 648,926 shares were outstanding under the PruCap Deferred Bonus Plan, 308,237 shares were outstanding under the Momentum Retention Plan, 891,670 shares were outstanding under the One Off Awards, 6,908,451 shares were outstanding under the PLTIP, 5,450,258 shares were outstanding under the GPSP, 1,196,934 shares were outstanding under the BUPP, 2,494,067 shares were outstanding under the Deferred Share Plans and 5,517,241 shares were outstanding under the PCA LTIP and 821,500 were outstanding under the Prudential Agency Long Term Incentive Plan. Such outstanding awards held by directors or other executive officers at 31 December 2013 are included under ‘Long-term incentive plans’ in the ‘Compensation’ section above. 255 Table of Contents The aggregate proceeds that would arise if all outstanding options under the SAYE schemes were exercised is £57 million. The latest expiration dates for exercise or release of the securities underlying the options or awards and the number of options or shares are set out in the table below. Year of Expiration Shares OutstandingUnder the PrudentialJackson National LifeUS Performance Share Plan Options OutstandingUnder Savings RelatedShare Option Scheme SharesOutstanding UnderOther Awards Total £m 2013 — 0.321 7.074 7.395 2014 1.051 3.822 7.89 12.763 2015 0.965 2.485 10.459 13.909 2016 — 2.504 0.06 2.564 2017 — 0.255 0.09 0.345 2018 — 0.57 — 0.57 2019 — — — — 2020 — — — — Total 2.016 9.957 25.573 37.546 Information concerning the Group’s share award and share option plans for its employees is provided in ‘Compensation’ above as well as in note B3.2 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Board Practices In accordance with Prudential’s Articles of Association, the Board or the members in a general meeting, may appoint up to 20 directors. In line with UK corporate governance guidelines, all directors submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and any director appointed by the Board will retire at the first Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment and offer himself or herself for election by shareholders. Non-executive directors are appointed on the understanding that they serve an initial term of three years. Subject to review by the Nomination Committee, it would be expected that they would serve a second term of three years. In both instances, non-executive directors remain subject to re-election at the Annual General Meeting. After six years of service, non-executive directors may be appointed for a further year, up to a maximum of three years, subject to rigorous review by the Nomination Committee and annual election at the Annual General Meeting. The Group Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing tailored induction programs for new directors and on-going development for all directors. On appointment, all directors embark upon a wide-ranging induction program covering, amongst other things, the principal bases of accounting for the Group’s results, the role of the Board and its key Committees, and the ambit of the internal audit and risk management functions. In addition, they receive detailed briefings on the Group’s principal businesses, its product range, the markets in which it operates and the overall competitive environment. Other areas addressed include the directors’ obligations under the different listing regimes to which Prudential is subject, legal issues affecting directors of financial services companies, the Group’s governance arrangements, its investor relations program, as well as its remuneration policies. Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company. The Company’s Articles of Association allow its directors to authorise conflicts of interest, and the Board has adopted a policy and effective procedures to manage and, where appropriate, approve conflicts or potential conflicts of interest. Under these procedures directors are required to declare all directorships or other appointments to companies which are not part of the Group along with other appointments which could result in conflicts or could give rise to a potential conflict. 256 Table of Contents The Nomination Committee, or the Board where appropriate, evaluates and approves each such situation individually where applicable and the Nomination Committee annually reviews such declarations prior to the publication of the Annual Report. External appointments Directors may hold directorships or other significant interests in companies outside the Group which may have business relationships with the Group. Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards, review or advisory groups and charitable trusts provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time commitment to their role at Prudential and that they discuss any new appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting. This ensures that they do not compromise their independence and that any potential conflicts of interest and any possible issues arising out of the time commitments required by the new role can be identified and addressed appropriately. The major commitments of our non-executive directors are detailed in their biographies on pages 207 to 213. Executive directors may accept external directorships and retain any fees earned from those directorships subject to prior discussion with the Group Chief Executive and always provided that they do not lead to any conflicts of interest. In line with the UK Code, executive directors would not be expected to hold more than one non-executive directorship, nor the chairmanship, of a FTSE 100 company. Some of our executive directors hold directorships or trustee positions of unquoted companies or institutions. Details of any fees retained are included in Item 6, ‘External Appointments on page 247. Directors’ indemnities and protections Suitable insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of companies within the Prudential Group. Protection for directors, and certain senior managers, of companies within the Group, against personal financial exposure which may be incurred in their capacity as such, is also provided. These include qualifying third party indemnity provisions (as defined in the UK by the Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of directors of Prudential plc and other such persons including, where applicable, in their capacity as directors of other companies within the Group. These indemnities were in force during 2013 and remain in force. In addition, the Company’s Articles of Association permit the directors and officers of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office. A report on the activities undertaken by each Committee during the course of the year is set out below. Audit Committee Report Membership The Audit Committee (the ‘Committee’) is comprised of the non-executive directors as set out below: Director Ann Godbehere (Chairman) Howard Davies Alistair Johnston Philip Remnant (appointed 1 January 2013) Alice Schroeder (appointed 10 June 2013) Biographical details of the members can be found on pages 210 to 212. 257 Table of Contents Role and responsibilities The Committee’s role is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities for the integrity of the Group’s financial reporting, including the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems, and for monitoring the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors. The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: • monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including the review of half and full-year results, the annual report and accounts and other significant financial announcements and review the critical accounting policies, going concern assumption and key judgemental areas contained therein; • consider and advise the Board in meeting its obligation to report that the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy; • monitor the framework and effectiveness of the Group’s systems of internal control, including the Turnbull compliance statement and Sarbanes-Oxley procedures; • monitor auditor independence and the external auditor’s plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness of the external audit process, the external auditor’s qualifications, expertise and resources, and make recommendations to the Board for the re-appointment of the external auditor; • approve the internal audit plan and resources, and monitor the audit framework and effectiveness of the internal audit function; • monitor the effectiveness of compliance processes and controls, and performance against the Group Compliance Plan; • review the anti-money laundering procedures in place, as well as the review of procedures operated for handling allegations from whistleblowers; and • review the effectiveness of the business unit Audit Committees. In performing its duties, the Committee has access to employees and their financial or other relevant expertise across the Group. Meetings The Committee held 11 scheduled meetings and one additional meeting during the year and worked closely with the Risk Committee to ensure that any pertinent areas of overlap were appropriately addressed. The Chairman of the Risk Committee is a member of the Audit Committee and the Committee Chairman is a member of the Risk Committee. The cross-membership helps ensure that both Committees work together effectively to cover all relevant issues. The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group General Counsel and head of Group-wide Internal Audit, as well as other senior staff from the Group finance, internal audit, risk, compliance and security functions attended the meetings by invitation to contribute to the discussions relating to their respective areas of expertise. The lead and other partners of the external auditor also attended the meetings. 258 Table of Contents How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 During the year, the Committee undertook the following work: Financial reporting The Committee assessed whether suitable accounting policies had been adopted throughout the accounting period and whether management had made appropriate estimates and judgements over recognition, measurement and presentation of the results. The Committee also focused on material transactions, clarity of disclosures, significant audit adjustments, the going concern assumptions, compliance with accounting standards and obligations under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes. The Committee further considered changes to the UK Annual Report requirements, including the introduction of the new Strategic Report, additional disclosures of the Audit Committee report and the fair, balanced and understandable requirement under the UK Code, providing advice to the Board in respect of this last requirement. In preparing the Annual Report, the Group has taken the opportunity to reassess the structure of the narrative sections and the Committee’s work in this area included consideration and discussions with management so that the narrative sections provide an enhanced description of the Company’s business and results. Accounting policy changes on consolidated investment holdings (IFRS10), accounting for joint ventures and associated undertakings (IFRS11 and IFRS12), fair value measurement (IFRS13) and accounting for the Group’s defined benefit pension schemes (revised IAS19) were also considered. In addition, the Committee considered the impact that the acquisitions of REALIC and Thanachart Life would have on the financial statements. Key assumptions and judgements in respect of the Group’s investments, insurance liabilities, and deferred acquisition costs are important and in this regard, the main areas of focus were: • oversight of the assumptions applied and operation of internal controls in respect of the items shown below, and more generally, in the preparation of the results; • specific assumptions for: • mortality and credit risk for UK annuity business; • economic and policyholder behaviour assumptions affecting the measurement of Jackson guarantee liabilities and amortisation of deferred acquisition costs; • non-recurrent adjustments to Asia policyholder liabilities; and • investment and derivative valuations, in particular considering the results of independent valuations by the external auditor. The Committee also considered judgemental matters regarding provisions for certain open tax items. The Committee received detailed papers from management regarding Group capital, Group liquidity, subsidiary capital and subsidiary liquidity prior to recommending to the Board that it could conclude that the financial statements should continue to be prepared on the going concern basis. As part of its assessment of the explanation of performance, the Committee considered judgemental aspects of the Group’s reporting of non GAAP metrics and in relation to the Group’s supplementary reporting on the European Embedded Value (EEV) basis, specifically: • the appropriateness of the economic assumptions underpinning the projected rates of return and risk discount rates; • the appropriateness of changes to EEV operating assumptions and the level of operating experience variances; and • disclosures to explain the proposed change from 2014 so that the EEV results will be prepared on a post-tax only basis. 259 Table of Contents The Committee considered the effects of volatility in equity market movements, and changes in interest and foreign currency translation rates on the Group’s results, accounting presentation and disclosure. For all of the above areas, the Committee received input from management and the external auditor prior to reaching its conclusions. Confidential reporting The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Group’s whistleblowing procedures and received, as a standing item, reports on concerns raised through these channels, as well as any management action taken in response. The Confidential Helpline Policy (the ‘Policy’) is kept under regular review by the Committee and is maintained as part of the Group Governance Manual. No material changes to the Policy have been made during the course of 2013, although it has been updated to reflect the latest guidance issued by the Institute of Business Ethics. The Committee also met with the head of Group Security, who is responsible for the Policy, without the presence of management, in respect of its responsibilities for reviewing whistleblowing procedures and any concerns regarding such issues. Business unit audit committees Every business unit has its own audit committee which provides oversight to the respective business unit and supports the work of the Committee. Any relevant matters discussed at business unit level are reported to the Committee. The members and chairmen are comprised primarily of senior management who are independent of the respective business unit. The minutes of these committees are reported regularly to the Committee and their meetings are attended by senior management of the respective business unit, including the business units’ heads of Finance, Risk, Compliance and Group-wide Internal Audit, and by the external auditor. In 2013, the standard terms of reference for the business unit audit committees were updated in line with revised provisions included in the Committee’s terms of reference. These will be adopted in 2014 by the business unit audit committees with minor variations to address local requirements or the particular requirements of the business. The Committee Chairman also reviewed and approved the appointments to the business unit audit committees. During the year, the business unit audit committees reviewed their respective internal audit plans, resources and the results of internal audit work, and both external and internal auditors were able to discuss any relevant matters with the Chairman and members of the Committee as required. Effectiveness of the business unit audit committees An annual assessment of the business unit audit committees was carried out by Group-wide Internal Audit in order to ensure that these committees continued to function effectively and provide appropriate support to enable the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities. The assessment was conducted by the internal audit teams in each of the business units and considered whether each of the committees was fulfilling its responsibilities as documented in their terms of reference. Attendance rates by committee members and evidence of the committees’ coverage of key business unit issues, as well as the appropriate escalation of concerns to the Committee formed part of the criteria used for the evaluation. The assessment further factored in the suitability of the business unit audit committee structures and the appropriateness of the membership on each committee. 260 Table of Contents The results of the assessment concluded that the business unit audit committees continued to operate effectively and the Committee considered a report on the findings at its meeting in December. Internal control and risk management The Committee reviewed the Group’s statement on internal control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board. Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Group-wide Internal Audit Group-wide Internal Audit is a fundamental function which supports the Committee in meeting its legal and regulatory responsibilities and also in complying with provisions of the UK and HK Codes. The independent assurance provided by the function formed a key part of the Committee’s deliberations on the systems of internal control and risk management. Each of the Group’s business units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the head of Group-wide Internal Audit. Internal audit resources, plans, budgets and its work are overseen by both the Committee and the relevant business unit audit committee. The head of Group-wide Internal Audit reports functionally to the Committee and for management purposes to the Group Chief Executive. As part of its remit, the Committee periodically meets with the head of Group-wide Internal Audit without the presence of management. During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector In July 2013, the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors (CIIA) issued recommendations on Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector. Group-wide Internal Audit benchmarked their current structure and practices against the guidelines and the results of the benchmarking were also externally quality assured. While largely compliant, a programme of enhancement is scheduled to be completed to deliver full compliance in 2014. Aligned with the CIIA guidance for Effective Internal Audit in the Financial Services Sector, the revised Charter of Group-wide Internal Audit has been published on the Company’s website. In addition, the Committee has formally assessed that Group-wide Internal Audit has sufficient resources to discharge its mandate. Internal Auditor performance In addition to periodic external effectiveness reviews (such as that conducted by PwC in 2012), the Committee regularly assesses the performance and effectiveness of the internal audit function and did so during the course of the 2013. The assessment was performed by Group-wide Internal Audit Quality Assurance and conducted in accordance with the CIIA’s professional practice standards. For 2013, the assessment concluded that Group-wide Internal Audit complies with the requirements of internal audit policies, procedures and practices, and standards in all material respects and is aligned with its mandated objectives. As such, the Committee determined that Group-wide Internal Audit continued to operate effectively. Group Compliance The Committee received regular reports from Group Compliance, who is responsible for assessing the risks posed to the Group as a result of non-compliance with relevant regulations, including those in respect of anti-money laundering and sanctions. Each business unit has its own compliance function, and the role of Group 261 Table of Contents Compliance is to assess the effectiveness of these functions, as well as to provide oversight and support in the identification, mitigation and reporting of regulatory risks arising from both current business activities and from changes in the regulatory environment. During 2013, the Committee also considered and approved changes to the Group Compliance Policy, the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Policy and the Group Sanctions Policy to take account of changes in the relevant legal and regulatory environments. The Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, monitoring its performance, objectivity and independence, to ensure that its coverage is focused and that suitable overlap with the work of internal audit is achieved. As part of its remit, the Committee met with the external auditor without the presence of management on two occasions during the year. External Audit Auditor performance and independence The Committee assessed the performance, as well as the independence and objectivity, of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process. A key component of this assessment is the consideration that the auditor is sufficiently robust in its challenge. The review of the effectiveness of the external audit process was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise administered by Group Finance. This was circulated to key stakeholders involved in the statutory audit, including Committee members, executive management, finance, Group-wide Internal Audit and risk functions across the Group. A report on the principal findings of the review was considered by the Committee in May 2013, alongside a response to the review prepared by KPMG. The Committee also reviewed the external audit strategy and received reports from the auditor on its own policies and procedures regarding independence and quality control, including an annual confirmation of its independence in line with industry standards. Re-appointment of auditor The Group operates a policy under which at least once every five years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered. The external audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 when the present auditor was appointed. Since 2005 the Committee has annually considered the need to re-tender the external audit service and it again considered this in February 2014, concluding that there was nothing in the performance of the auditor which required a change. The Committee acknowledges the provisions contained in the UK Code in respect of audit tendering, along with the current proposals of the UK Competition Commission and the European Union. The Committee intends to comply with these changes and will finalise its decision on the timeline for completing a tender of the external audit service when legislative requirements become final. In line with the Auditing Practices Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a new lead audit partner was appointed in respect of the 2012 financial year. Following its review of the external auditor’s effectiveness and independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG be re-appointed as auditor of the Company. Due to a legal reorganisation within KPMG, the specific entity being appointed for 2014 will be KPMG LLP rather than KPMG Audit Plc as currently. The Board has, therefore, decided to put KPMG Audit Plc’s parent entity, KPMG LLP, forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution concerning their appointment will be put to a shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2014. Further information on Auditor independence and Fees payable to the auditor is provided in Item 16C. 262 Table of Contents Dialogue with the regulator Ongoing dialogue with the Prudential Regulatory Authority (PRA) was maintained through the usual cycle of close and continuous meetings with the Committee Chairman and relevant members of management. Discussions focussed on the Committee’s responsibilities on matters of financial reporting, audit and compliance. The meetings were also used to better understand the PRA’s areas of focus and how these might impact the responsibilities of the Committee. Training The Committee received detailed presentations on a range of topics including updated financial accounting developments, the new reporting requirements, briefings on developments in the regulatory environment, and received the minutes of both the Disclosure Committee and the Assumptions Approval Committee for information. The Assumptions Approval Committee reviewed the key assumptions to be used for financial reporting, business planning, forecasting and the IAS19 valuation of the three UK defined benefit pension schemes. Remuneration Committee Report Membership The Remuneration Committee (the ‘Committee’) is comprised exclusively of non-executive directors, as set out below: Lord Turnbull (Chairman) Keki Dadiseth (to 1 May 2013) Michael Garrett (to 31 August 2013) Paul Manduca Kai Nargolwala Anthony Nightingale (from 1 June 2013) Philip Remnant (from 1 January 2013) Biographical details of the members can be found on pages 207 to 213. Meetings The Committee meets at least three times a year and more often if required. In 2013, the Committee met five times and the key activities at each meeting are shown in the table below: Meeting Key activities Early March 2013 • Approve the 2012 directors’ remuneration report; • Consider 2012 bonus awards for executive directors; • Consider vesting of the long-term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2012; and • Approve 2013 long-term incentive awards, performance measures and Plan documentation. Mid-March 2013 • Confirm 2012 annual bonuses and the vesting of long term incentive awards with a performance period ending on 31 December 2012 in light of audited financial results. June 2013 • Review the remuneration of the Group Leadership Team, senior risk staff and of employees with a remuneration opportunity over £1 million per annum; • Consider the cascade of the remuneration architecture to the senior management team; and • Review progress towards share ownership guidelines by the Chairman, executive directors and Group Executive Committee members. 263 Table of Contents Meeting Key activities September 2013 • Monitor performance against long-term incentive targets, based on the half year results; • Review the dilution levels resulting from the Company’s share plans; • Consider the latest version of the external measures report; • Review total 2014 remuneration of executive directors for consultation with shareholders; and • Review draft Remuneration Policy Report for consultation with shareholders. December 2013 • Review the level of participation in the Company’s all-employee share plans; • Approve executive directors’ 2014 salaries and incentive opportunities; • Consider the annual bonus and long term incentive measures and targets to be used in 2014; • Review an initial draft of the 2013 directors’ remuneration report; • Review the Committee’s terms of reference; and • Approve the Committee’s 2014 work plan. The Chairman reported to the Board on matters of significance after each meeting. The terms of reference for the Committee are kept under regular review and are updated where required. A copy of these can be found on the Company’s website. Nomination Committee Report Membership The Nomination Committee (the ‘Committee’) is comprised of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are set out below: Director Paul Manduca (Chairman) Howard Davies Ann Godbehere Philip Remnant (appointed 1 January 2013) Lord Turnbull Biographical details of the members can be found on pages 207 to 213 Role and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in ensuring that it maintains the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and diversity to support the Group’s strategic objectives and that a clear and transparent appointment process for directors is in place. The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: • review the size, structure and composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of Board members, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to changes; • identify and nominate candidates for appointment to the Board, based on merit and against objective criteria; • make recommendations to the membership of the Audit, Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees in consultation with the Chairmen of those Committees; 264 Table of Contents • consider and, where necessary, authorise any actual or potential situational conflicts arising out of a proposed new appointment, changes in the circumstances of an existing appointment or those of a director’s connected person; and • develop, where appropriate, and periodically review any objectives established for the implementation of diversity on the Board and monitor progress toward the achievements of those objectives Meetings The Committee met on four occasions during the year. The Group Chief Executive is closely involved in the work of the Committee and was invited to attend and contribute to meetings. The Group HR Director was also invited to attend meetings. How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 During the year, the Committee undertook the following work: Board composition The Committee reviewed the composition of the Board and, in particular, the non-executive directors to ensure that the balance of skills, experience and knowledge continued to be appropriate for the Group’s business to meet the strategic objectives. The Committee also considered whether any additional skills and experience would be needed, either to complement those already on the Board or to plan for filling vacancies due to the future retirement of non-executive directors. Succession planning The Committee reviewed the succession plans for both executive and non-executive appointments to the Board taking into account the strategic objectives of the Group and the future retirement of Directors, as well as the level of diversity desirable for a Group with such a global reach. The process included consideration of the anticipated demands of the business and the skills and knowledge required to successfully deliver against these. Appointment of directors Two new non-executive directors and one executive director were appointed during the course of the year. The Committee initiated the recruitment process for two non-executive directors to replace Keki Dadiseth and Michael Garrett who retired in 2013 and made recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Alice Schroeder and Anthony Nightingale (details of the process are set out below). Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and Ridgeway Partners were appointed to assist in the searches leading to the appointment of Alice and Anthony respectively. Neither of the search consultancies used in the process undertook any other significant work for Prudential. With the assistance of Egon Zehnder, the Committee also led the search process for the appointment of Jackie Hunt as Chief Executive, Prudential UK and Europe. Egon Zehnder assisted Prudential in finding candidates for a number of executive positions below Board level during the course of the year. Appointment of non-executive directors Alice Schroeder and Anthony Nightingale were appointed as non-executive directors during the course of the year, following the scheduled retirement of Keki Dadiseth and Michael Garrett as part of the continuous refreshment of the Board. 265 Table of Contents The Committee evaluated the skills and knowledge required in order to ensure the Board was appropriately balanced to meet the needs of the Group and agreed role specifications setting out the key attributes expected in the successful candidates. The search consultancies shared with the Nomination Committee a long list of potential non-executive directors. The Committee reviewed the potential candidates provided by Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and Ridgeway Partners, agreeing a shortlist of individuals meeting the key skills, knowledge and personal attributes as identified by the Committee. The Committee members and Group Chief Executive then met with the identified candidates, further evaluating them against the needs of the business and the Board. The Committee gave consideration to the external commitments of the candidates to ensure they could dedicate sufficient time to meet the demands of the role and that they were suitably independent of the Group to fulfil the role of a non-executive director. On completion of the process, the Committee agreed to recommend Alice and Anthony to the Board for appointment. Conflicts of interest and independence The Board has delegated authority to the Committee to consider, and where necessary authorise, any actual or potential conflicts of interest arising in respect of the directors. The Committee considered potential conflicts of interest as they arose during the course of the year and in respect of the appointments of new directors. The Committee also supports the Board in its annual consideration of the Conflicts of Interest Register, which is carried out prior to the publication of the Annual Report, and considers the independence of the non-executive directors, in the context of the criteria set out in the UK and HK Codes. Risk Committee Report Membership The Risk Committee (the ‘Committee’) is comprised of the non-executive directors as set out below: Director Howard Davies (Chairman) Ann Godbehere Kai Nargolwala Lord Turnbull Biographical details of the members can be found on pages 210 to 213. Role and responsibilities of the Committee The Committee is responsible for assisting the Board in providing leadership, direction and oversight of the Group’s overall risk appetite, risk tolerance and risk management framework. The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: • review the Group’s risk, capital and liquidity management framework, as well as the Group’s risk appetite, its risk policies and standards, including the parameters used and methodologies and processes adopted for identifying and assessing risks; • review the material and emerging risk exposures of the Group, including market, credit, insurance, operational, liquidity and economic and regulatory capital risks as well as regulatory and compliance matters; • oversee the Group’s processes and policies for determining risk tolerance and reviewing management’s measurement and effectiveness of the Group’s risk tolerance levels; 266 Table of Contents • receive and review Group-wide Internal Audit reports on the risk management function; • assist the Board in reviewing the risks inherent in the business plans; and • provide qualitative and quantitative advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk weightings applied to performance objectives incorporated in executive remuneration and evaluate whether the remuneration approach for senior executives was positioned within the Group’s overall risk appetite framework. Meetings The Committee met on five occasions during the year and continued to maintain close links to the Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member of the Risk Committee and the Committee Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee. This cross-membership facilitates an effective linkage between both Committees, ensuring that any risk assurance relevant to financial reporting is referred to that Committee. The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group-wide Internal Audit Director and the Group General Counsel are invited to attend the meetings, as is the Chief Operating Officer, Group Risk and Director of Risk Advisory and Technical Analysis. How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 During the year, the Committee undertook the following work: Group risk framework The Committee continued its granular review of the Group Risk Framework, expanding and strengthening it in respect of the Group’s significant investment portfolios and taking account of Prudential’s wider stakeholders. Extensive ‘road-testing’ of the framework was carried out during the course of 2012 and 2013 with the Committee receiving regular feedback on the implementation in the business units. Once the Committee was satisfied that the strengthened framework was both appropriate for the business and functioning robustly, it was recommended to the Board for approval. Key Group risks The Committee continued to monitor the Group’s key risks against the changing economic backdrop and strategic objectives approved by the Board in June. The Committee determined that the principal risks to the Group remained largely unchanged and continued to provide oversight to management’s actions in respect of these risks. The Committee reviewed the adequacy of capital levels in respect of the principal risks to the Group, including the levels of capital buffers for unforeseen risks. Regulatory and economic capital models The development and finalisation of the model used in the preparation of the Group’s Pillar I disclosures required under Solvency II were areas of focus for the Committee. The appropriateness of the underlying model and the assumptions forming the basis of the Economic Capital Model were further key areas of consideration for the Committee and both items formed a notable part of the Committee’s deliberations over the course of 2013. Stress testing Alongside the Committee’s regular review of the Reverse Stress Test Exercise, Prudential also participated in the industry-wide stress testing carried out in the UK by the PRA. 267 Table of Contents The Committee considered the impact of the additional testing on the operation of the business units, approving the proposed timeline for the coordinated exercise and governance process for signing off the results. Dialogue with the regulator Ongoing dialogue with the PRA was maintained through the usual cycle of close and continuous meetings with the Committee Chairman and Group Chief Risk Officer. Discussions focussed on the Pillar I disclosures under Solvency II and the Economic Capital Model which sets out the Group’s approach to risk appetite and the Group Risk Framework. The meetings were also used to better understand the PRA’s areas of focus and how these might impact the responsibilities of the Committee. Training and support The Committee regularly received updates from Group Risk, Group-wide Internal Audit and the Group Treasurer on industry and market developments and their impact on Prudential. The Committee received the minutes of the Group Executive Risk Committee, along with any matters escalated by the other risk management committees. In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the Group Chief Risk Officer, as well as other employees and their relevant expertise across the Group. NYSE Corporate Governance Rules compared to Prudential plc’s Corporate Governance Practice Pursuant to NYSE rule 303A Prudential has disclosed the differences between the NYSE Corporate Governance Rules and its Corporate Governance Practice on its website at www.prudential.co.uk/site-services/governance-and-policies/nyse-and-prudential-plcs-corporate-governance-rules-and-practice. See also Item 16G, ‘Corporate Governance’. Employees The average numbers of staff employed by the Prudential group, excluding employees of the venture investment subsidiaries of the PAC with-profits fund, for the following periods were: 2013 2012* 2011* Business operations: Asia operations 12,239 11,284 10,114 US operations 4,414 4,000 3,785 UK operations 5,533 5,035 4,628 Total 22,186 20,319 18,527 * The 2012 and 2011 comparative results have been adjusted from those previously published for the retrospective application of the new and amended accounting standards described in note A2 to Prudential’s consolidated financial statements in Item 18. At 31 December 2013, Prudential employed 20,052 employees representing an increase in the year from 18,445 persons as at 31 December 2012. Most of the increase relates to Asia due to regular business growth, supporting growth in operations along with expansions in certain countries. Of the 20,052 employees, approximately 28 per cent were located in the United Kingdom, 51 per cent in Asia and 22 per cent in the United States. In the United Kingdom at 31 December 2013, Prudential had 401 employees paying union subscriptions through the payroll. At 31 December 2013, Prudential had 398 temporary employees in the United Kingdom, 1,986 in Asia and 117 in the United States. At 31 December 2013, Prudential had 215 fixed term contractors in the United Kingdom, 576 in Asia and none in the United States. 268 Table of Contents Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions Major Shareholders The Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the FCA provide that a person or corporate entity that acquires an interest of 3 per cent or more in Prudential ordinary shares is required to notify Prudential of that interest. If such interest subsequently reaches, exceeds or falls below a whole percentage point, this must also be notified. Similarly, a notification is required once the interest falls below 3 per cent. At 16 April 2014 Prudential had received the following notifications: Significant Changes in Ownership 2011 • In January 2011, BlackRock Inc notified Prudential that it had an interest of 127,614,906 shares, which represented 5.01 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In March 2011, Capital Research and Management Company notified Prudential of a decrease in its interest to 281,048,317 shares representing 11.04 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • Also in March 2011, BlackRock Inc notified Prudential of a decrease in their interest of 126,093,582 shares representing 4.95 per cent of ordinary share capital and then in a further notification, of an increase in their interest to 127,414,496 shares representing 5.0 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • BlackRock Inc made two notifications up to 15 April 2011; the first notification was of a decrease in their interest to 126,974,810 shares representing 4.98 per cent of the ordinary share capital and the second was of an increase in their interest to 128,470,662 shares representing 5.04 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In April 2011, BlackRock Inc notified a decrease in their interest in Prudential shares of 126,930,350, representing 4.98 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In May 2011 BlackRock Inc notified an increase in shares to 127,401,807, representing 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital and later in May, notified a decrease in their interest to 126,991,833 representing 4.98 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • Also in May 2011, Capital Research and Management Company notified a decrease in their interest to 279,316,829 shares, representing 10.96 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In June 2011, BlackRock Inc notified an increase to 127,695,916 shares representing 5.01 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In July 2011, Capital Research and Management Company notified a decrease to 252,448,407 shares, representing 9.91 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • In August 2011, BlackRock Inc notified a decrease in interest to 125,132,015 shares, representing 4.91 per cent of the ordinary share capital and in November 2011, notified an increase to 127,422,766 shares, representing 5 per cent of the ordinary share capital. • Later in November 2011, BlackRock Inc notified a decrease to 127,201,756 shares representing 4.99 per cent of the ordinary share capital. 2012 • In April 2012, BlackRock Inc. notified an increase in interest to 129,499,098 shares, representing 5.08 per cent of the issued share capital. • In September 2012, Capital Group Companies, Inc. (formerly interests notified by Capital Research and Management Company) notified an increase in interest to 256,652,047 shares, representing 10.04 percent of the issued share capital. 269 Table of Contents 2013 • In May 2013, Capital Group Companies Inc. notified a decrease in interest to 255,851,954 shares, representing 9.99 per cent of the issued share capital. • In July 2013, Capital Group Companies, Inc. notified an increase in interest to 259,009,041 shares representing 10.12 per cent of the issued share capital. • In September 2013, Legal and General plc notified a decrease in interest to 101,803,187 shares, representing less than 3 per cent of the issued share capital. Table: Notifications received from major shareholders as at 2 April 2014 Shareholder Date advised Percentage ofshare capital Shareholding Capital Group Companies, Inc. 11/07/2013 10.12 % 259,009,041 BlackRock Inc 05/04/2012 5.08 % 129,499,098 Norges Bank 26/11/2010 4.03 % 102,495,000 Major shareholders of Prudential have the same voting rights per share as other shareholders. See Item 10, ‘Additional Information Memorandum and Articles of Association—Voting Rights’. As at 7 April 2014, there were 133 shareholders with a US address on Prudential’s register of shareholders. These shares represented approximately 0.01 per cent of Prudential’s issued ordinary share capital. As at 7 April 2014 there were 50 registered Prudential ADR holders. The shares represented by these ADRs amounted to approximately 2.07 per cent of Prudential’s issued ordinary share capital. Prudential does not know of any arrangements which may at a subsequent date result in a change of control of Prudential. Related Party Transactions Information on the related party transactions of the Group is provided in note D8 to the consolidated financial statements in Item 18. Item 8. Financial Information See Item 18, ‘Financial Statements’. 270 Table of Contents Item 9. The Offer and Listing Comparative Market Price Data The tables below set forth the highest and lowest closing middle-market quotations for Prudential shares, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, the actual ADRs high and low closing sale prices for the periods indicated on the New York Stock Exchange and the highest and lowest closing prices on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and Singapore Stock Exchange. Prudential OrdinaryShares Prudential ADRs Prudential OrdinaryShares (Hong Kong)* Prudential OrdinaryShares (Singapore)* Year High Low High Low High Low High Low (pence) (US Dollars) (HK Dollars) (US Dollars) 2009 650.5 207.0 21.8 5.6 — — — — 2010 681.0 487.5 21.3 14.5 81.1 57.2 10.5 7.4 2011 777.0 509.0 25.8 16.2 100.0 62.4 12.6 8.0 2012 911.5 628.5 29.4 19.6 113.8 74.0 12.3 9.9 2013 1,340.0 901.5 45.0 28.6 175.0 111.0 16.0 13.1 Prudential OrdinaryShares Prudential ADRs Prudential OrdinaryShares (Hong Kong)* Prudential OrdinaryShares (Singapore)* Quarter High Low High Low High Low High Low (pence) (US Dollars) (HK Dollars) (US Dollars) 2012 First quarter 797.5 633.5 25.6 19.6 98.7 74.0 12.0 9.9 Second quarter 764.0 660.0 24.7 20.3 96.0 78.2 12.0 12.0 Third quarter 854.0 729.5 27.6 22.7 107.0 87.4 12.0 10.0 Fourth quarter 911.5 820.0 29.4 26.3 113.8 101.7 12.3 10.0 2013 First quarter 1,155.0 901.5 35.0 28.6 134.0 111.0 15.4 13.1 Second quarter 1,203.0 1,018.0 36.6 31.3 142.5 120.5 15.4 15.4 Third quarter 1,232.0 1,078.0 38.5 33.2 152.0 126.5 16.0 16.0 Fourth quarter 1,340.0 1,138.0 45.0 36.4 175.0 145.5 16.0 16.0 Prudential OrdinaryShares (UK) Prudential ADRs Prudential OrdinaryShares (Hong Kong) Prudential OrdinaryShares (Singapore) Month High Low High Low High Low High Low (pence) (US Dollars) (HK Dollars) (US Dollars) October 2013 1,280.0 1,138.0 41.4 36.4 157.5 145.5 16.0 16.0 November 2013 1,307.0 1,243.0 42.7 39.9 160.0 155.5 16.0 16.0 December 2013 1,340.0 1,251.0 45.0 40.9 175.0 158.8 16.0 16.0 January 2014 1,377.0 1,228.0 45.8 40.1 195.0 177.0 16.0 16.0 February 2014 1,372.0 1,204.0 45.7 39.9 180.5 167.0 16.0 16.0 March 2014 1,398.0 1,268.5 46.7 42.5 181.8 166.5 16.0 16.0 * Prudential listed on these stock exchanges on 25 May 2010. Accordingly, the market price data shown above for these stock exchanges is only from this date. 271 Table of Contents Market Data Prudential ordinary shares are listed on the Premium Listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchange under the symbol ‘PRU’. On 25 May 2010, Prudential ordinary shares were admitted to listing on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and are traded in board lots of 500 shares with the short name ‘PRU’ and stock code 2378; and as a secondary listing on the Singapore Stock Exchange, also traded in board lots of 500 shares, with the abbreviated name ‘PRU 500’. Prudential American Depositary Shares (ADSs) have been listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange since 28 June 2000 under the symbol ‘PUK’. Item 10. Additional Information Memorandum and Articles of Association Prudential plc is incorporated and registered in England and Wales, under registered number 1397169. Its objects are unrestricted, in line with the default position under the Companies Act 2006. The following is a summary of both the rights of Prudential shareholders and certain provisions of Prudential’s Articles of Association. Rights of Prudential shareholders are set out in Prudential’s Articles of Association or are provided for by English law. This document is a summary and, therefore, does not contain full details of Prudential’s Articles of Association. A complete copy of Prudential’s Articles of Association, adopted at the Annual General Meeting on 14 May 2009 and effective on 1 October 2009, was filed as an exhibit to Form 20-F for the year ended 31 December 2008. In addition, the Articles of Association may be viewed on Prudential’s website. Share capital The issued share capital as at 31 December 2013, which is set out in Note C10, consisted of ordinary shares of 5 pence each, all fully paid up and listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Subject to applicable local securities law, the Company’s shares may be registered on the main register in the UK or the branch registers in Ireland or Hong Kong. Issued share capital Number of accounts on the register 2013 2,560,381,736 57,013 2012 2,557,242,352 60,522 Prudential also maintains secondary listings on the New York Stock Exchange in the form of American Depositary Receipts which are referenced to ordinary shares on the main UK register, under a depositary agreement with J.P. Morgan, and on the Singapore Stock Exchange in the form of interests in shares, which are referenced to the shares on the Hong Kong register under a depository agreement with the Central Depository (Pte) Limited. Prudential has maintained a sufficiency of public float throughout the reporting period as required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules. A number of dividend waivers are in place and these relate to shares issued but not allocated under the Group’s employee share plans. These shares are held by the Trustees and will, in due course, be used to satisfy requirements under the Group’s employee share plans. 272 Table of Contents The issued share capital of Prudential is not currently divided into different classes of shares. The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital. As at 2 April 2014, the directors retained authority granted at the Annual General Meeting (the ‘AGM’) on 16 May 2013 to allot before the earlier of 30 June 2014 and the AGM of the Company to be held in 2014, ordinary shares of up to an aggregate nominal value of £42,653,640 subject to limitations and reductions in certain circumstances. Of those shares, directors retained authority to allot equity securities for cash up to a maximum nominal value of £6,398,046 without first being required to offer such securities to shareholders in proportion with their existing holding. In the case of a rights issue, directors retained authority to allot equity securities in favor of ordinary shareholders up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to £85,307,280 subject to reduction in certain circumstances. At the AGM scheduled to be held on 15 May 2014, the shareholders are to vote on granting the directors similar authorities to allot ordinary shares, before the earlier of 30 June 2015 and the AGM of the Company to be held in 2015. In addition the directors have authority to allot Sterling preference shares up to a maximum nominal amount of £20 million, Dollar preference shares up to a maximum nominal amount of US$20 million, and Euro preference shares up to a maximum nominal value of €20 million, the terms of which will be determined by the Board on allotment. Shareholders are to vote on renewing this authority at the AGM to be held on 15 May 2014. The Board shall determine whether the preference shares are to be redeemable, their dividend rights, their rights to a return of capital or to share in the assets of the Company on a winding up or liquidation and their rights to attend and vote at general meetings of the Company prior to the date on which the preference shares are allotted. Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board has discretion to determine the terms and manner of redemption of redeemable shares when the shares are allotted. The Board may only capitalise any amounts available for distribution in respect of any series or class of preference shares if to do so would mean that the aggregate of the amounts so capitalised would be less than the multiple, if any, determined by the Board of the aggregate amount of the dividends payable in the 12 month period following the capitalisation on the series or class of preference shares and on any other preference shares in issue which rank pari passu in relation to participation in profits. This restriction may be overturned with either: (i) the written consent of the holders of at least three-quarters in nominal value; or (ii) a special resolution passed at a general meeting of the holders of the class or series of preference shares. Dividends and other distributions Under English law, Prudential may pay dividends only if distributable profits are available for that purpose. Distributable profits are accumulated, realised profits not previously distributed or capitalised, less accumulated, realised losses not previously written off in a reduction or reorganisation of capital. Even if distributable profits are available, Prudential may only pay dividends if the amount of its net assets is not less than the aggregate of its called-up share capital and undistributable reserves, including, for example, the share premium account, and the payment of the dividend does not reduce the amount of the net assets to less than that aggregate. Subject to these restrictions, Prudential’s directors may recommend to ordinary shareholders that a final dividend be declared, recommend the amount of any such dividend, determine whether to pay a distribution by way of an interim dividend, and the amount of any such interim dividend out of the profits of the Company, but must take into account Prudential’s financial position. Final dividends become a legal liability of a company upon the later of the date they are declared by shareholders and the date the shareholder approval expresses them to be payable. Interim dividends only become a legal liability of a company at the moment they are paid, unless a company’s Articles of Association provide for declaration of interim dividends by directors. The Company’s Articles do not provide for declaration of interim dividends. 273 Table of Contents The Company or its directors determine the date on which Prudential pays dividends. Prudential pays dividends to the shareholders on its share registers on the record date in proportion to the number of shares held by each shareholder. There are no fixed dates on which entitlements to dividends arise. Interest is not payable on dividends or other amounts payable in respect of shares. If a shareholder does not claim a dividend within 12 years of such dividend becoming due for payment, such shareholder forfeits their right to receive it. Such unclaimed amounts may be invested or otherwise used for Prudential’s benefit. Shareholder meetings English law provides for shareholders to exercise their power to decide on corporate matters at general meetings. In accordance with English law, the Company is required to call and hold annual general meetings. At annual general meetings, shareholders receive and consider the statutory accounts and the reports by the Company’s auditor and its directors, approve the directors’ remuneration report, elect and re-elect directors, declare final dividends, approve the appointment of the Company’s auditor, authorise the directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration, and transact any other business which ought to be transacted at a general meeting, either pursuant to the Articles of Association or English law. General meetings to consider specific matters may be held at the discretion of Prudential’s directors and must be convened, in accordance with English law, following the written request of shareholders representing at least five per cent of the voting rights of the issued and paid-up share capital. The quorum required under Prudential’s Articles of Association for a general meeting is two shareholders present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote on the business to be transacted. Under the Companies (Shareholders’ Rights) Regulations 2009, notice periods for all general meetings have to be 21 days, except for a meeting (i) which is not an annual general meeting, (ii) for which an electronic facility for voting and appointing proxies is available to all members, and (iii) in respect of which a company obtains shareholder approval annually to retain the shorter 14-day notice period. Prudential has been able to call general meetings (other than annual general meetings) on 14-days’ notice and obtained shareholder approval at the AGM on 16 May 2013 to enable it to continue to do so after the implementation of the Regulations. The approval will be effective until the Company’s AGM to be held on 15 May 2014 when a similar resolution will be proposed. Voting rights Voting at any meeting of shareholders is by show of hands unless the Company’s intention to call a poll on the resolution is stated in the notice to the general meeting or, before or on the declaration of the result of a vote on the show of hands or on the withdrawal of any other demand for a poll, a poll is duly demanded. The Company’s practice is for all votes at its AGM to be conducted by way of poll. A poll may be demanded as described below. On a show of hands, every shareholder holding ordinary shares who is present in person, or a duly appointed proxy or in the case of a corporation, its duly authorised corporate representative, has one vote. On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy and every duly authorised corporate representative has one vote for every share held. Only the holders of fully paid shares are allowed to attend, be counted in the quorum at meetings and vote. If more than one joint shareholder votes, only the vote of the shareholder whose name appears first in the register is counted. A shareholder whose shareholding is registered in the name of a nominee may only attend and vote at a general meeting if appointed by his or her nominee as a proxy or a corporate representative. Resolutions of Prudential’s shareholders generally require the approval of a majority of the shareholders to be passed. Such resolutions, referred to as ordinary resolutions, require: • on a show of hands, a majority in number of the shareholders present and voting in person or by duly appointed proxies or (in the case of corporate shareholders) by authorised corporate representatives to vote in favor, or • on a poll, more than 50 per cent of the votes cast to be in favor. 274 Table of Contents Some resolutions, referred to as special resolutions, such as a resolution to amend the Articles of Association, require a 75 per cent majority. Such special resolutions require: • on a show of hands, at least 75 per cent of the shareholders present and voting in person or by duly appointed proxies or (in the case of corporate shareholders) by authorised corporate representatives to vote in favor, or • on a poll, at least 75 per cent of the votes cast to be in favor. Any shareholder who is entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote at the meeting on his or her behalf. The following persons may demand a poll: • the chairman of the meeting, • at least five shareholders present in person, by corporate representative or by proxy having the right to vote on the resolution, • any shareholder or shareholders present in person, by corporate representative or by proxy and representing at least 10 per cent of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote on the resolution, or • any shareholder or shareholders present in person, by corporate representative or by proxy and holding shares conferring a right to vote on the resolution on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to at least 10 per cent of the total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right. Transfer of shares Transfers of shares may be made by an instrument of transfer. An instrument of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee. The transferor remains the holder of the relevant shares until the name of the transferee is entered in the share register. Transfers of shares may also be made by a computer-based system and transferred without a written instrument in accordance with English law. The directors may in certain circumstances refuse to register transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis. If the directors refuse to register a transfer they must send the transferee notice of the refusal within two months stating the reason(s) for such refusal. Changes in share capital Directors require authority to allot from shareholders before issuing new shares. The class and other rights attaching to new classes of shares may be determined by resolution of the shareholders or may be delegated by the shareholders to the directors. The following changes in share capital may only take place after approval by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders: • share consolidations, and • subdivisions of shares. Reductions in Prudential’s issued share capital and share premium account must be approved by a special resolution of the shareholders and must be confirmed by an order of the court. Variation of rights If the share capital is divided into different classes of shares, the rights of any class of shares may be changed or taken away only if such measure is approved by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the members 275 Table of Contents of that class, or with the written consent of at least three quarters of the members of that class. Two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares of the class must be present at such a meeting in person or by proxy to constitute a quorum. The Board may not authorise, create or increase the amount of, any shares of any class or any security convertible into shares of any class or any security which is convertible into shares of any class ranking, as regards rights to participate in the profits or assets in the company, in priority to a series or class of preference shares without the consent in writing of at least three-quarters in nominal value of, or the sanction of a special resolution of, the holders of such series or class of preference shares. Lien Prudential has a lien on every share that is not a fully paid share. Accidental omission to give notice Accidental omission to send notice of a meeting to any person entitled to receive it, or the non-receipt for any reason of any such notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings of that meeting. Shareholders resident abroad There are no limitations on non-resident or foreign shareholders’ rights to own Prudential securities or exercise voting rights where such rights are given under English company law. Winding-up Prudential is subject to the general insolvency law applicable to UK companies. Board of directors Prudential’s Board of directors manages the Company business. However, the Company’s shareholders must approve certain matters, such as changes to the share capital and the election and re-election of directors. Directors are appointed subject to the Articles of Association. The Board may appoint directors to fill vacancies and appoint additional directors who hold office until the next AGM. The Articles of Association require that each director must have beneficial ownership of a given number of ordinary shares. The number of shares is determined by ordinary resolution at a general meeting and is currently 2,500. The minimum number of directors is eight and the maximum number is 20. Shareholders may vary the limits on the number of directors by ordinary resolution. There are currently 16 directors on Prudential’s Board. At every AGM, any director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM; or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them; or who has held office with the Company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the meeting, shall retire from office and may offer himself or herself for re-election by shareholders. Shareholders may remove any director before the end of his or her term of office by ordinary resolution and may appoint another person in his or her place by ordinary resolution. The UK Corporate Governance Code, contains a provision recommending that directors stand for annual re-election at the AGM. In line with these provisions, all directors are expected to stand for re-election at each AGM of the Company. The directors may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its assets provided that the total amount borrowed does not, when aggregated with the total borrowing (which excludes, amongst other things, intra-group borrowings and amounts secured by policies, guarantees, bonds or contracts issued or given by Prudential or its subsidiaries in the course of its business) of all of Prudential’s 276 Table of Contents subsidiaries, exceed the aggregate of the share capital and consolidated reserves and of one-tenth of the insurance funds of Prudential and each of its subsidiaries as shown in the most recent audited consolidated balance sheet of the Group prepared in accordance with the English law. There is no age restriction applicable to directors in the Articles of Association. Disclosure of interests There are no provisions in Prudential’s Articles of Association that require persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of Prudential’s shares to make disclosure of their ownership percentage. The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify Prudential and the FCA of the percentage of the voting rights he or she directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: • reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and/or any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial instruments; or • reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in Prudential. The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons. Under section 793 of the UK Companies Act 2006, Prudential may, by notice in writing, require a person that Prudential knows or has reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding the date of notice interested in Prudential’s shares, to indicate whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in Prudential’s shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act. Where a company serves notice under the provisions described above on a person who is or was interested in shares of the company and that person fails to give the company the information required by the notice within the time specified in the notice, the company may apply to an English court for an order directing that the shares in question be subject to restrictions prohibiting, among other things, any transfer of those shares, the exercise of voting rights in respect of those shares and, other than in liquidation, payments in respect of those shares. In addition, under the Articles of Association, a shareholder may lose the right to vote his shares if he or any other person appearing to be interested in those shares fails to comply within a prescribed period of time with such a request to give the required information with respect to past or present ownership or interests in those shares, or makes a statement in response to such a request which is in the opinion of the directors false or misleading in any material manner. In the case of holders of 0.25 per cent or more of the issued share capital of Prudential (or any class of the share capital), in addition to disenfranchisement, the sanctions that may be applied by the Company under its Articles of Association include withholding the right to receive payment of dividends on those shares, and restrictions on transfers of those shares. In the case of holders of less than 0.25 per cent of the issued share capital of Prudential, the sanction is disenfranchisement alone. The Disclosure and Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by certain persons, including directors, of interests in shares of the listed companies of which they are directors, and in derivatives or other financial instruments relating to those shares. The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their respective associates during the course of an offer period. 277 Table of Contents Directors’ interests in contracts A director may hold positions with or be interested in other companies and, subject to applicable legislation, contract with the Company or any other company in which Prudential has an interest. A director may not vote or be counted in the quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board in respect of any contract in which he or she has an interest. This prohibition does not, however, apply to any resolution where that interest cannot reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest or where that interest arises only from certain matters specified in the Articles of Association (filed as an exhibit to Form 20-F), including the following: • certain matters that benefit the Group (such as a guarantee, indemnity or security in respect of money lent or obligations undertaken by the director at the request of or for the benefit of Prudential or one of its subsidiaries); • certain matters that are available to all other directors and/or employees (such as the provision to the director of an indemnity where all other directors are being offered indemnities on substantially the same terms or in respect of any contract for the benefit of Group employees under which the director benefits in a similar manner to the employees); and • certain matters that arise solely from the director’s interest in shares or debentures of the Company (such as where Prudential or one of its subsidiaries is offering securities in which offer the director is entitled to participate as a holder of securities or in respect of any contract in which a director is interested by virtue of his interest in securities in the Company). The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax these provisions to any extent or ratify any contract not properly authorised by reason of a contravention of these provisions contained in its Articles of Association. In accordance with English company law, the Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise any matter which would otherwise involve a director breaching his duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest and the relevant director is obliged to conduct himself or herself in accordance with any terms imposed by the Board in relation to such authorisation. Directors’ power to vote on own terms of appointment A director shall not vote on or be counted in the quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board concerning his own appointment, or the settlement or variation of the terms or the termination of his own appointment, as the holder of any office or place of profit with the Company or any other company in which the Company is interested. Directors’ remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee, which consists of non-executive directors. The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board. For further details see Item 6, ‘Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Compensation’. Transactions with Directors Prudential may only grant a loan or quasi-loan, or provide security or financial accommodation, to its directors and their connected persons if approval has been obtained from shareholders at a general meeting. Payments to Directors for loss of office For further details see Item 6, ‘Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Compensation’. 278 Table of Contents Change of control There is no specific provision in Prudential’s Articles of Association that would have an effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Prudential and that would operate only with respect to a merger, acquisition or corporate restructuring involving Prudential, or any of its subsidiaries. Exclusive jurisdiction Under Prudential’s Articles of Association, any proceeding, suit or action between a shareholder and Prudential and/or its directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles of Association or otherwise, between Prudential and any of its directors (to the fullest extent permitted by law), between a shareholder and Prudential’s professional service providers and/or between Prudential and Prudential’s professional service providers (to the extent such proceeding, suit or action arises in connection with a proceeding, suit or action between a shareholder and such professional service provider) may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales. Material Contracts Not applicable. Exchange Controls Other than the requirement to report certain events and transactions to HM Revenue and Customs, there are currently no UK laws, decrees or regulations that restrict the export or import of capital, including, but not limited to, foreign exchange controls, or that affect the remittance of dividends or other payments to non-UK residents or to US holders of Prudential’s securities, except as otherwise set forth under ‘—Taxation’ in this section. Taxation The following is a summary, under current law and practice, of the principal UK tax, US federal income tax, Hong Kong and Singapore tax considerations relating to an investment by a US taxpayer in Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs. This summary applies to you only if: • you are an individual US citizen or resident, a US corporation, or otherwise subject to US federal income tax on a net income basis in respect of your holding of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs; • you hold Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs or shares held or traded in Singapore through CDP as a capital asset for tax purposes; • if you are an individual, you are not resident in the United Kingdom for UK tax purposes, and do not hold Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs for the purposes of a trade, profession, or vocation that you carry on in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency or if you are a corporation, you are not resident in the UK for UK tax purposes and do not hold the securities for the purpose of a trade carried on in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom; and • you are not domiciled in the UK for inheritance tax purposes. This summary does not address any tax consideration other than certain UK tax, US federal income tax, Hong Kong tax and Singapore tax considerations and does not purport to be a comprehensive description of all of the tax considerations that may be relevant to any particular investor, and does not address the tax treatment of investors that are subject to special rules. Prudential has assumed that you are familiar with the tax rules applicable to investments in securities generally and with any special rules to which you may be subject. You should consult your own tax advisers regarding the tax consequences of the ownership of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs in the context of your own particular circumstances. 279 Table of Contents The discussion is based on laws, treaties, judicial decisions, and regulatory interpretations in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change possibly retrospectively. Beneficial owners of ADSs will be treated as owners of the underlying Prudential ordinary shares for US federal income tax purposes and for purposes of the 24 July 2001 Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom. Deposits and withdrawals of Prudential ordinary shares in exchange for ADSs generally will not result in the realisation of gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes. UK Taxation of Dividends UK tax is not required to be withheld in the United Kingdom at source from cash dividends paid to US resident holders. UK Taxation of Capital Gains A holder of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs who for UK tax purposes is a US corporation that is not resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK taxation on capital gains realised on the disposal of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs unless at the time of disposal: • the holder carries on a trade in the United Kingdom through a permanent establishment in the United Kingdom, and • the Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs are or have been used, held or acquired for use by or for the purposes of such trade or permanent establishment. Subject to the comments in the following paragraph, a holder of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs who, for UK tax purposes, is an individual who is not resident in the United Kingdom will not be liable for UK taxation on capital gains realised on the disposal of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs unless at the time of the disposal: • the holder carries on a trade, profession or vocation in the United Kingdom through a branch or agency, and • the Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs are or have been used, held, or acquired for use by or for the purposes of such trade, profession, or vocation, or for the purposes of such branch or agency. A holder of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs who is an individual who is temporarily a non-UK resident for UK tax purposes will, in certain circumstances, become liable to UK tax on capital gains in respect of gains realised while he or she was not resident in the UK. UK Inheritance Tax Prudential ordinary shares which are registered on the main Prudential share register are assets situated in the United Kingdom for the purposes of UK inheritance tax (the equivalent of US estate and gift tax). Prudential ADSs are likely to be treated in the same manner as the underlying Prudential ordinary shares and as situated in the United Kingdom. Subject to the discussion of the UK-US estate tax treaty in the next paragraph, UK inheritance tax may apply if an individual who holds Prudential ordinary shares which are registered on the main Prudential share register or ADSs gifts them or dies even if he or she is neither domiciled in the United Kingdom nor deemed to be domiciled there under UK law. For inheritance tax purposes, a transfer of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs at less than full market value may be treated as a gift for these purposes. Special inheritance tax rules apply (1) to gifts if the donor retains some benefit, (2) to close companies and (3) to trustees of settlements. Prudential ordinary shares which are registered on the Hong Kong or Irish branch register should not be treated as situated in the United Kingdom for the purpose of UK inheritance tax. However, as a result of the UK-US estate tax treaty, Prudential ordinary shares which are registered on the main Prudential share register or ADSs held by an individual who is domiciled in the United States for the purposes of 280 Table of Contents the UK-US estate tax treaty and who is not a UK national will, subject to special rules relating to trusts and settlements, not be subject to UK inheritance tax on that individual’s death or on a gift of the Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs unless the Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs: • are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of an enterprise in the United Kingdom, or • pertain to a fixed base in the UK used for the performance of independent personal services. The UK-US estate tax treaty provides a credit mechanism if the Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs are subject to both UK inheritance tax and to US estate and gift tax. UK Stamp Duty and Stamp Duty Reserve Tax Relevant legislation provides that, subject to certain exemptions, UK stamp duty would be payable on a transfer of, and UK stamp duty reserve tax (‘SDRT’) would be payable upon a transfer or issue of, Prudential ordinary shares to the depositary of Prudential ordinary shares that is responsible for issuing ADSs (the ‘ADS Depository’), or a nominee or agent of the ADS depositary, in exchange for American Depository Receipts (‘ADRs’) representing ADSs. For this purpose, the current rate of stamp duty and SDRT is 1.5 per cent (rounded up, in the case of stamp duty, to the nearest £5). However, as a result of case law, HMRC’s current position is that they will not seek to levy a 1.5 per cent SDRT charge on an issue of UK shares to a person providing clearance services or issuing depositary receipts, wherever located. HMRC do not, however, agree that the recent case law extends to transfers of shares to a person providing clearance services or issuing depositary receipts, wherever located, where that transfer is not an integral part of an issue of share capital. It is recommended that, should this charge arise, independent professional tax advice be sought without delay. Provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the United Kingdom no UK stamp duty should be required to be paid on any transfer of Prudential ADRs representing ADSs. Based on Prudential’s understanding of HMRC’s application of the exemption from SDRT for depository receipts a transfer of Prudential ADRs representing ADSs should not, in practice, give rise to a liability to SDRT. Subject to the special rules relating to clearance systems and issuers of depository receipts, a transfer for value of Prudential ordinary shares (but excluding Prudential ordinary shares registered on the Hong Kong or Irish branch register unless the instruments of transfer are executed in the UK), as opposed to ADSs, will generally give rise to a charge to UK stamp duty or SDRT, other than where the amount or value of the consideration for the transfer is £1,000 or under and the transfer instrument is certified to that effect, at the rate of 0.5 per cent (rounded up, in the case of stamp duty, to the nearest £5). The rate is applied to the price payable for the relevant Prudential ordinary shares. To the extent that UK stamp duty is paid on a transfer of Prudential ordinary shares, no SDRT should generally be payable on the agreement for that transfer. Subject to certain special rules relating to clearance services, a transfer of ordinary shares from a nominee to their beneficial owner (other than on sale), including a transfer of underlying Prudential ordinary shares from the ADS depositary or its nominee to an ADS holder, is not subject to UK stamp duty. No UK SDRT should be payable on an agreement to transfer Prudential ordinary shares registered on the Hong Kong or Irish branch registers, subject to the special rule relating to clearance systems and issuers of depository receipts. UK stamp duty is usually paid by the purchaser. Although SDRT is generally the liability of the purchaser, any such tax payable on the transfer or issue of Prudential ordinary shares to the ADS depositary or its nominee will (subject to the change referred to above) be payable by the ADS depositary as the issuer of the ADSs. In accordance with the terms of the Deposit Agreement, the ADS depositary will recover an amount in respect of such tax from the initial holders of the ADSs. 281 Table of Contents US Federal Income Tax Treatment of Distributions on Prudential Ordinary Shares or ADSs If Prudential pays dividends, you must include those dividends in your income when you receive them. The dividends will be treated as foreign source income. You should determine the amount of your dividend income by converting pounds sterling into US dollars at the exchange rate in effect on the date of your (or the depositary’s, in the case of ADSs) receipt of the dividend. Subject to certain exceptions for short-term and hedged positions, the US dollar amount of dividends received by an individual will be subject to taxation at a lower rate than ordinary income if the dividends are ‘qualified dividends.’ Dividends received with respect to the ordinary shares or ADSs will be qualified dividends if Prudential was not, in the year prior to the year in which the dividend was paid, and is not, in the year in which the dividend is paid, a passive foreign investment company (‘PFIC’). Based on the nature of its business activities and its expectations regarding such activities in the future, Prudential believes that it was not treated as a PFIC within the meaning of the Code with respect to its 2013 taxable year and does not anticipate becoming a PFIC for its 2014 taxable year. US Federal Income Tax Treatment of Capital Gains If you sell your Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs, you will recognise a US source capital gain or loss equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount realised on the disposition and the US dollar basis in the ordinary shares of the ADSs. A gain on the sale of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs held for more than one year will be treated as a long-term capital gain. The net long-term capital gain generally is subject to taxation at a lower rate than ordinary income. Your ability to offset capital losses against ordinary income is subject to limitations. US Federal Medicare Tax on Net Investment Income A 3.8 per cent surtax will generally apply to the net investment income of individuals whose modified adjusted gross income exceeds certain threshold amounts. For 2014, these amounts are $200,000 in the case of single taxpayers, $250,000 in the case of married taxpayers filing joint returns, and $125,000 in the case of married taxpayers filing separately. Net investment income includes, among other items, dividends, interest, and net gain from the disposition of property (other than certain property held in a trade or business). US Information Reporting and Backup Withholding Under the US tax code, a US resident holder of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs may be subject, under certain circumstances, to information reporting and possibly backup withholding with respect to dividends and proceeds from the sale or other disposition of Prudential ordinary shares or ADSs, unless the US resident holder provides proof of an applicable exemption or correct taxpayer identification number and otherwise complies with applicable requirements of the backup withholding rules. Any amount withheld under the backup withholding rules is not additional tax and may be refunded or credited against the US resident holder’s federal income tax liability, so long as the required information is furnished to the IRS. Hong Kong Taxation of Dividends No tax will be payable in Hong Kong in respect of dividends Prudential pays to its US resident holders. Dividends distributed to Prudential’s US resident holders will be free of withholding taxes in Hong Kong. Hong Kong Taxation on gains of sale No tax is imposed in Hong Kong in respect of capital gains. However, trading gains from the sale of property by persons carrying on a trade, profession or business in Hong Kong where the trading gains are derived from or arise in Hong Kong will be chargeable to Hong Kong profits tax. Hong Kong profits tax is currently charged at the rate of 16.5 per cent on corporations and at a maximum rate of 15 per cent on individuals. Certain categories 282 Table of Contents of taxpayers whose business consists of buying and selling shares are likely to be regarded as deriving trading gains rather than capital gains (e.g. financial institutions, insurance companies and securities dealers) unless these taxpayers can prove that the investment securities are held for long-term investment purposes. Trading gains from the sale of the Prudential Shares by US resident holders effected on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange will be considered to be derived from Hong Kong. A liability for Hong Kong profits tax would thus arise in respect of trading gains derived by US resident holders from the sale of Prudential Shares effected on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange where such trading gains are realised by US resident holders from a business carried on in Hong Kong. Hong Kong Stamp duty Hong Kong stamp duty, currently charged at the ad valorem rate of 0.1 per cent on the higher of the consideration for or the value of the Prudential Shares, will be payable by the purchaser on a purchase and by the seller on a sale of Prudential Shares where the transfer is required to be registered in Hong Kong (i.e. a total of 0.2 per cent is ordinarily payable on a sale and purchase transaction involving ordinary shares). In addition, a fixed duty of HK$5.00 is currently payable on any instrument of transfer of ordinary shares. Hong Kong Estate duty Hong Kong estate duty has been abolished with effect to all deaths occurring on or after 11 February 2006. Singapore Taxation on gains of sale Disposal of the Prudential Shares Singapore does not impose tax on capital gains. However, gains of an income nature may be taxable in Singapore. There are no specific laws or regulations which deal with the characterisation of whether a gain is income or capital in nature. Gains arising from the disposal of the Prudential Shares by US resident holders may be construed to be of an income nature and subject to Singapore income tax, especially if they arise from activities which are regarded as the carrying on of a trade or business and the gains are sourced in Singapore. Adoption of FRS 39 for Singapore Tax Purposes Any US resident holders who apply, or who are required to apply, the Singapore Financial Reporting Standard 39 Financial Instruments—Recognition and Measurement (‘FRS 39’) for the purposes of Singapore income tax may be required to recognise gains or losses (not being gains or losses in the nature of capital) in accordance with the provisions of FRS 39 (as modified by the applicable provisions of Singapore income tax law) even though no sale or disposal is made. Taxpayers who may be subject to such tax treatment should consult their own accounting and tax advisers regarding the Singapore income tax consequences of their acquisition, holding and disposal of the Prudential Shares. Singapore Taxation of Dividend distributions As Prudential is incorporated in England and Wales and is not tax resident in Singapore for Singapore tax purposes, dividends paid by Prudential will be considered as sourced outside Singapore (unless the Prudential Shares are held as part of a trade or business carried out in Singapore in which event the US resident holders of such shares may be taxed on the dividends as they are derived). Foreign-sourced dividends received or deemed received in Singapore by an US resident individual not resident in Singapore is exempt from Singapore income tax. This exemption will also apply in the case of a Singapore tax resident individual who receives his foreign-sourced income in Singapore on or after 1 January 2004 (except where such income is received through a partnership in Singapore). 283 Table of Contents Foreign-sourced dividends received or deemed received by corporate investors in Singapore (including US investors) will ordinarily be liable to Singapore tax. However, foreign-sourced income in the form of dividends, branch profits and service income received or deemed to be received in Singapore by Singapore tax resident companies on or after 1 June 2003 can be exempt from tax if certain prescribed conditions are met, including the following: (i) such income is subject to tax of a similar character to income tax under the law of the jurisdiction from which such income is received; and (ii) at the time the income is received in Singapore, the highest rate of tax of a similar character to income tax (by whatever name called) levied under the law of the territory from which the income is received on any gains or profits from any trade or business carried on by any company in that territory at that time is not less than 15 per cent. Certain concessions and clarifications have also been announced by the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore with respect to such conditions. Singapore Stamp duty As Prudential is incorporated in England and Wales and the Prudential Shares are not registered on any register kept in Singapore, no stamp duty is payable in Singapore: (i) on the issuance of the Prudential Shares; and (ii) on any transfer of the Prudential Shares. Prudential Shares held or traded in Singapore through CDP will be registered on the HK Register. As such, Hong Kong stamp duty will be payable on a transfer of Prudential Shares held or traded in Singapore through CDP. Please refer to the description under the Hong Kong stamp duty section above. All persons, including US resident holders, who hold or transact in Prudential Shares in Singapore through the SGX-ST and/or CDP should expect that they will have to bear Hong Kong stamp duty in respect of transactions in Prudential Shares effected in Singapore through the SGX-ST and/or CDP. Such persons should consult their brokers, or custodians for information regarding what procedures may be instituted for collection of Hong Kong stamp duty from them. Singapore Estate duty Singapore estate duty has been abolished with respect to all deaths occurring on or after 15 February 2008. Singapore Goods and Services Tax There is no Goods and Services Tax (‘GST’) payable in Singapore on the subscription or issuance of the Prudential Shares. The clearing fees, instruments of transfer deposit fees and share withdrawal fees are subject to GST at the prevailing standard-rate (currently 7per cent) if the services are provided by a person belonging to Singapore to a holder of the Prudential Shares. However, such fees could be zero-rated when provided to a US resident holder of the Prudential Shares belonging outside Singapore provided certain conditions are met. For a holder of the Prudential Shares belonging in Singapore who is registered for GST, the GST incurred is generally not recoverable as input tax credit from the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore unless certain conditions are satisfied. These GST-registered holders of the Prudential Shares should seek the advice of their tax advisors on these conditions. 284 Table of Contents Documents on Display Prudential is subject to the informational requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers. In accordance with these requirements, Prudential files its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other documents with the Securities and Exchange Commission. You may read and copy this information at the following location: Conventional Reading Rooms Headquarters 100 F Street, N.E. Room 1580 Washington, D.C. 20549 Please call the SEC at (202) 551 8090 for further information on the conventional reading rooms. Copies of these materials can also be obtained by email to PublicInfo@sec.gov or mail at prescribed rates from the Office of Investor Education and Advocacy of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. In addition, some of Prudential’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including all those filed on or after 4 November 2002, are available on the websites of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange Prudential also files reports and other documents with the London, Hong Kong and Singapore stock exchanges. This information may be viewed on the websites of each of those exchanges as well as via the UK Financial Conduct Authority’s National Storage Mechanism. All reports and other documents filed with the each of the exchanges are also published on Prudential’s website. Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Overview As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the management of risk lies at the heart of the Group’s business. The control procedures and systems established within the Group are designed to manage, rather than eliminate , the risk of failure to meet business objectives. They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and focus on aligning the levels of risk taking with the achievement of business objectives. The Group’s internal control processes are detailed in the Group Governance Manual. This is supported by the Group Risk Framework, which provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to risk management. Where appropriate, more detailed policies and procedures have been developed at Group and/or business unit levels. These include Group-wide mandatory policies on certain operational risks, including: health, safety, fraud, money laundering, bribery, business continuity, information security and operational security, and policies on certain financial risks. Additional guidelines are provided for some aspects of actuarial and financial activity. Prudential’s Group Risk Framework requires that all of the Group’s businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group. The Group Risk Framework is based on the concept of ‘three lines of defence’: Risk management; risk oversight and independent assurance. Primary responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk control lies with the Board, which has established the Group Risk Committee to assist in providing leadership, direction and oversight, and with the Group Chief Executive and the chief executive of each business unit. Risk oversight is provided by Group level risk committees, chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer or the Chief Financial Officer. Independent assurance on the Group’s internal control and risk management systems is provided by the Audit Committee, supported by the Group-wide Internal Audit. 285 Table of Contents The Group’s risk reporting framework forms an important part of the Group’s business processes and planning. Business units review their risks as well as opportunities as part of their business plans, and risks against business objectives are regularly discussed with Group executive management. Additional information on the Group’s risk framework is included in the risk and capital management section under ‘Group Risk Framework in 