D. Risk Factors Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar, US dollar, euro and other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. Most of our sales are denominated in US dollars and euros. However, a significant portion of our cost of goods sold, operating expenses and capital expenditures are denominated in Canadian dollars and foreign currencies such as euros, British Pounds, Rupee (India) and Renminbi (China). As a result, even though we manage to some extent our exposure to currency risks with forward exchange contracts (by selling US dollars for Canadian dollars) and certain operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar, we are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the US dollar on one hand and the Canadian dollar, euro and other currencies on the other. For example, the average exchange rate of the Canadian dollar versus the US dollar was 1.0446 in fiscal 2010 compared to 1.1782 in fiscal 20 09, resulting in an increase of 11% of our Canadian-based costs year-over-year when reported in US dollars. Any further decrease in the value of the US dollar relative to the Canadian dollar and other currencies, and any unfavorable variance between the value of the Canadian dollar and the contractual rates of our forward exchange contracts, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and provide competitive advantages to our competitors. If global economic and market conditions don’t continue to recover, or if they deteriorate, our business may be adversely affected. Our business is subject to the effects of general economic conditions in North America and throughout the world and, more particularly, market conditions in the telecommunications industry. In fiscal 2009, our operating results were adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions and reduced capital spending in the Americas, Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA), and Asia-Pacific (APAC). This crisis included significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, as well as substantial reductions and/or fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide. Due to such unfavorable changes in economic and market conditions in 2009, capital spending was lower among our customers for test and service assurance solutions and, therefore, demand for our products declined which adversely affected our revenue level. Challenging economic and market conditions also impaired the ability of some customers to pay for the products and services they purchased. As a result, our reserves for doubtful accounts receivable increased in 2009. In fiscal 2010, global economic and market conditions slowly recovered, but they have not returned to the levels prior to the 2009 economic crisis. In addition, economic conditions negatively affected the ability of some of our suppliers to supply us in a timely manner. Global economic and market conditions are difficult to forecast and mitigate. If economic and market conditions don’t continue to recover, or if they deteriorate, we may experience a material adverse impact to our business, operating results and financial condition. 3 Table of Contents We must continue to overcome significant competition in our targeted industries in order to gain market share and achieve our growth strategy. The market for our business activity ─ namely designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling telecommunications test and service assurance equipment for fixed and mobile networks ─ is rapidly evolving and is marked by intense competition and technical innovation. In addition, we are facing new competitors in the wireless test and service assurance sector following the acquisition of NetHawk Oyj in March 2010. We anticipate the pace of change to remain high or even accelerate for our targeted industries in the future. We might see the emergence of new players or the consolidation of current competitors, as the market for telecommunications test and service assurance equipment evolves in response to technical innovations and economic conditions. Achieving a compound annual g rowth rate of 25% in sales from fiscal 2010 to 2012, as we have outlined in our updated corporate performance objectives, will largely depend on our ability to gain market share by increasing sales of current products at existing accounts, expanding into new accounts, introducing new products and enhancements, and exploiting new market opportunities, all of which will be challenging given the competitive environment. During the past five years, the telecommunications test and service assurance industry has witnessed consolidation. JDS Uniphase Corporation (JDSU) acquired Agilent’s Network Solutions test business in May 2010 and Acterna Corporation in August 2005. IXIA acquired Catapult Communications and Agilent Technologies’ data networks product testing line in June 2009 and October 2009, respectively. Danaher Corporation announced in September 2010 that it will acquire Keithley Instruments, Inc. and acquired Tektronix, Inc., in November 2007. Finally, Anritsu Corporation acquired NetTest A/S in August 2005. Competitors in the test environment include global suppliers like Agilent, Anritsu, JDSU, Spirent and Yokogawa. Other players like AFL Noyes, Anacise, BlueLight Technologies, Dadi, Digital Lightwave, Electrodata, Empirix, Fluke Networks and Tektronix, operating divisions within Danaher Corporation, Grandway, Greenlee Tempo, Ineoquest, IXIA, Kingfisher, Shenick, Shunra, Sunrise Telecom and VeEX compete against us in niche test markets. On the service assurance side, we compete against Astellia, Danaher, Empirix, Ineoquest, Infovista, IXIA, JDSU, NetScout, Nexus Telecom, Polystar, Radcom, and Spirent. Some network equipment manufacturers also sell their in-house service assurance systems. Some competitors may have greater financial, technical and/or marketing resources than us. Consequently, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, manufacturing, selling and support of their products in order to capture market share. Competitors also may be better positioned than us to capture market share or to acquire companies and new technologies that would potentially displace our products or render them obsolete. We cannot predict whether current or future competitors will develop or market products that offer higher performance, more features, or are more cost-effective than our current or future products. To remain competitive and achieve our growth strategy, we must increase our sales and develop cost-effective products and product enhancements that offer higher performance and more functionality, in current and new sectors, so that we can increase our market share. Our failure to do so may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have faced pricing pressure on our existing products and expect that this pressure will continue. If we do not keep lowering our manufacturing costs or introducing new products with higher margins, our gross margin may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. We continue to implement measures to attempt to protect our gross margin, despite sharp fluctuations between the US and Canadian currencies in recent years. In addition, since September 2007, we began transferring and ramping manufacturing of our higher-volume, lower-complexity telecom products at a wholly-owned production facility in Shenzhen, China, with a goal of lowering our production costs. However, increased competition in the telecommunications test and service assurance industry, along with consolidation among competitors and customers, will likely result in ongoing downward pressure on average selling prices. This, in turn, may negatively affect our gross margin. Pricing pressure can result from a number of factors such as: 4 Table of Contents · increased competition for business; · reduced demand; · limited number of potential customers; · competition from companies with lower production costs, including companies operating in lower-cost environments; · introduction of new products by competitors; · greater economies of scale for higher-volume competitors; · large customers, who buy in high volumes, can exert substantial negotiating leverage over us; and · resale of used equipment. In addition, our gross margin may be negatively affected by increased costs of raw materials as well as obsolescence and excess costs, product and customer mix, and under-absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. As pricing pressure will likely continue to affect our existing products, we may have to increase the number of units sold to maintain our existing sales levels. If we are unable to increase our sales levels, lower our manufacturing costs, or introduce new products with higher margins, our gross margin may decline and our operating results may suffer. We may not be able to make the acquisitions or strategic alliances needed for the development of our business or, if we do make such acquisitions or strategic alliances, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies and personnel. In addition, such acquisitions could distract management’s attention from our day-to-day business and operations. Ultimately, the failure to make strategic acquisitions or the inability to effectively integrate them could disrupt our overall business and harm our financial condition. We intend to carefully seek businesses, whose products and technologies are complementary to ours, or which will enable us to expand our markets and/or our market share. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately make any such transactions. Our competitors may be in a better position to acquire the same businesses, products and technologies that we wish to acquire. In addition, our fluctuating stock price, cash position, or ability to raise capital or issue debt on favorable terms at the time of an acquisition may affect our ability to complete such an acquisition. In fiscal 2010, we acquired NetHawk Oyj, the second-largest provider of 2G, 3G and 4G/LTE protocol analyzers and simulators, to expand our presence in the fast-growing wireless test and service assurance market. We intend to continue making acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies as part of our overall growth strategy. In the event of any future acquisition, we could: · issue shares that would dilute individual shareholder percentage ownership; · incur debt; · assume liabilities and commitments; · incur significant expenses related to amortization of additional intangible assets; · incur significant impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets related to such acquisitions; and · incur losses from operations. These deals, including our latest acquisition of NetHawk, also involve numerous risks, including: · risk of not realizing the expected benefits or synergies of such acquisitions; · problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies, products and personnel; · risks associated with the transfer of acquired know-how and technology; · unanticipated costs or liabilities; · diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · potential loss of key employees, particularly those of acquired organizations. 5 Table of Contents If we fail to adapt appropriately to the challenges associated with operating internationally, the expected growth of our business may be impeded and our operating results may be affected. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2010, customers outside of the United States and Canada accounted for 53.2% of our sales. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and maintain relationships with international distributors, set up additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international network operators and network equipment manufacturers, and operate adequate after-sales support internationally. In fiscal 2007, we established a software development center in Pune, India, to supplement the efforts of our R&D centers in Quebec City, Canada, Montreal, Canada, Concord, Canada, and since fiscal 2008, Boston, United States. In addition, in fiscal 2008, we began manufacturing high-volume, low-complexity telecom products at our wholly-owned production facility in Shenzhen, China, with the goal of lowering our manufacturing costs. Following the acquisition of NetHawk Oyj in March 2010, we have expanded our international operations with activities in Oulu and Lappeenranta in Finland, Bhubaneswar in India and Dallas in the United States. Even if we are able to successfully operate and expand our international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations due to the limited number of qualified candidates, employment laws and business practices in foreign countries, any of which could increase the cost and reduce the efficiency of operating in foreign countries; · fluctuations among currencies; · our inability to comply with import/export, environmental and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with unexpected changes in such regulations; · measures to ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in light of the acquisition of NetHawk Oyj and future acquisitions; · failure to adhere to laws, regulations and contractual obligations relating to customer contracts in various countries; · difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; · inability to maintain a competitive list of distributors for indirect sales; · tariffs and other trade barriers; · economic instability in foreign markets; · wars, acts of terrorism and political unrest; · language and cultural barriers; · lack of integration of foreign operations; · potential foreign and domestic tax consequences; · technology standards that differ from those on which our products are based, which could require expensive redesign and retention of personnel familiar with those standards; · longer accounts receivable payment cycles and possible difficulties in collecting payments which may increase our operating costs and hurt our financial performance; and · failure to meet certification requirements. Any of these factors could harm our international operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recurrence of weakness in these economies or of weakness in other foreign economies could have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. 6 Table of Contents Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the continued success of our business. Our failure to protect this proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant extent on our proprietary technology, with which we attempt to keep others from using the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. As of August 31, 2010, our records indicate that we own 52 actively-maintained granted patents from the U.S. (including one “design” patent), eleven in Finland, seven from Canada, four from China, six from Germany (including one “Utility Model”), five from the United Kingdom, five from France, as well as one patent in each of six other European countries. In addition, we have in process 28 US patent applications, 8 Canadian patent applications, 14 European applications, and two applications in China, and as well as five applications under the Patent C ooperation Treaty, which have not yet entered the national/regional phase. We also rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and license agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We may have to engage in litigation in order to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, distributors and third parties. However, these agreements may be breached or otherwise not effective and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or shortfall of these agreements. In any case, others may come to know about our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of some jurisdictions in which we sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of Canada and the United States. Our intellectual property rights, particularly our existing or future patents, may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or required to be licensed to others. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate or reverse engineer our technology, or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. We cannot be sure that the steps that we take to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation or infringement. If we fail to protect our technology so that others may copy or use it, we will be less able to differentiate our products and our sales may decline. Others may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, or they may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the technology industry and third-party infringement claims involving technologies may increase. If an infringement claim is filed against us, we may be prevented from using some of our technologies and may incur significant costs to resolve the claim. Conversely, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and enforce our intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims or in bringing infringement claims against others. Litigation could also adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technology and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We cannot assure you that we, or our customers, could obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. If we fail to obtain a license where one is required, we could incur substantial liabilities and be forced to suspend the marketing of the challenged products. 7 Table of Contents Our products may have unforeseen defects that could harm our reputation, impede market acceptance of our products and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Given their complexity, our products may contain undetected software or hardware defects, inaccurate calibration or compatibility problems, or regulatory compliance issues, particularly when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing and diligent efforts, defects will not be found in new products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions, or that customized products will meet customer sign-off acceptance requirements. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems or meet custom requirements, we could experience, among other things: · costly repairs; · product returns or recalls; · damage to our brand reputation; · loss of customers, failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; · diversion of development and engineering resources; · legal actions by our customers, including claims for consequential damages and loss of profits; and · legal actions by governmental entities, including actions to impose product recalls and/or forfeitures. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may make misjudgments in our strategic planning that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We devise a three-year strategic business plan, which is prepared by management and approved by our Board of Directors. This strategic plan, reviewed by management on a regular basis, is mainly based on market research and analysis related to future market trends and demands. In our strategic plan, we have made and will continue to make judgments based on our analysis of future market trends and customer requirements. These decisions may involve substantial investments in the development of new product lines, diversification of our business on a geographic basis, as well as expansion into new market segments — either organically or through acquisitions. We may make misjudgments in our strategic planning that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and fin ancial condition. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our sales and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and significant fluctuations may occur in the future, especially following the acquisition of Brix Networks (renamed EXFO Service Assurance Inc.) in fiscal 2008 and NetHawk Oyj in fiscal 2010. Both EXFO Service Assurance Inc. and NetHawk Oyj provide mission-critical systems that vary in size and complexity, and require customer acceptance before revenue recognition occurs. Therefore, sales levels for such systems within our EXFO Service Assurance and NetHawk businesses could fluctuate significantly quarter-over-quarter, depending on when revenue is recognized and on the magnitude of the order. In addition, our sales and operating results generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive from customers as well as our ability to fulfill received orders. Our operating expenses, which include manufacturing overhead costs, selling and administrative, research and development, and amortization expenses, are relatively fixed in the short term. If we sell fewer products than anticipated, if there is a delay in the launch of new products, or if prices for our products decline, we may not be able to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response to lower sales. Factors that could affect the amount and timing of our sales, and cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: · length of the sales cycle for certain products, especially those that are higher priced and more complex; · sales cycle prolonged by lengthy customer acceptance; · timing of product launches and market acceptance of new products for us as well as our competitors; 8 Table of Contents · our ability to sustain product volumes and high levels of quality across all product lines; · timing of shipments for large orders; · effect of seasonality on sales and bookings; and · losing key accounts and not successfully developing new ones. Our sales and operating results could also be affected by the following factors, some of which we have little or no control over: · fluctuating demand for telecommunications test and service assurance equipment; · changes in the capital spending and operating budgets of our customers, which may cause seasonal or other fluctuations in product mix, volume, timing and number of orders we receive from our customers; · order cancellations or rescheduled delivery dates; · pricing changes by our competitors or suppliers; · customer bankruptcies and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · restructuring and impairment charges; · foreign exchange rate fluctuations; and · general economic conditions, including a slowdown or recession. We may in the future choose to reduce prices, increase spending, or modify our product portfolio in response to actions by competitors or as an effort to pursue new market opportunities. These actions may also adversely affect our business and operating results and may cause our quarterly results to be lower than the results of previous quarters. Due to these factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. If we are unable to adapt to current and future changes in technology or if we are unable to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our products may become obsolete, which could prevent us from achieving our growth strategy and adversely affect our operating results. The industries that we target are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and industry standards that result in frequent new product introductions. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond to new technological developments, customer requirements or evolving standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The development of proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead times. The success of our new product introductions will depend on several factors, including our ability to: · properly identify and anticipate customer needs; · innovate and develop new products; · gain timely market acceptance for new products; · manufacture and deliver our new products on time, in sufficient volume and with adequate quality; · price our products competitively; · continue investing in our research and development programs; and · anticipate competitors’ announcements of new products. Failure to do the above could be exploited by our competitors. If we lose market share as a result of lapses in our product development, our business would suffer. If customers fail to meet their financial commitments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers experienced cash flow problems during the global economic recession in 2009 and may continue to do so. Consequently, we may have customers who delay payments or may not be able to meet their financial commitments to us. Furthermore, they may not order as many products from us as originally forecasted or they may cancel their orders outright. The failure of customers to order products would result in decreased revenues for us. If customers fail to meet their financial commitments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 9 Table of Contents As our customers consolidate, they may reduce or halt purchases of our products, which would harm our sales and operating results. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could reduce the number of customers to which our products are sold. Some of our customers have been subject to consolidation and could obtain products from a vendor other than us, or demand more favorable terms and conditions from us, which would harm our sales and operating results. In addition, some customers may merge with or acquire our competitors and discontinue their relationships with us. If we fail to predict our supply requirements accurately, we may have excess inventory or insufficient inventory, either of which could cause us to incur additional costs and/or experience manufacturing delays. We provide non-binding forecasts of our requirements to some of our suppliers up to six months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our forecasted requirements, we may have excess inventory, which could harm our relationships with our suppliers due to reduced future orders, increase our costs and require inventory write-offs. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have an inadequate inventory of parts, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in shipment delays. In addition, lead times for materials and parts that we order may be long and depend on factors such as the procedures of, or supply terms with, a specific supplier and worldwide demand for each part at a given time. We depend on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for some key components and materials in our products, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of the parts used to manufacture our products for which alternative sources may not be readily available. In addition, all our orders are placed through individual purchase orders and, therefore, our suppliers may stop supplying parts to us at any time. The reliance on a single source or limited number of suppliers could result in increased costs, delivery problems and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Financial difficulties of suppliers could also affect our ability to obtain necessary parts in a timely manner. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts could significantly harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and cause us to lose sales. Furthermore, the process of qualifying a new manufacturer for complex parts designed to our specifications, such as our optical and mechanical parts, is lengthy and would consume a substantial amount of time of our technical personnel and management. If we were required to change a supplier in a short period of time, our business would be disrupted. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in identifying a new supplier capable of meeting and willing to meet our needs on terms that we would find acceptable. Consolidation involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives available to us and increase the cost of parts, which would make our products less competitive and result in lower margins. 10 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial information or prevent fraud, which could harm our operating results and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable and accurate financial information and effectively prevent fraud. We devote significant resources and time to comply with the internal control over financial reporting requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. In addition, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we assess and that our auditors attest to the design and operating effectiveness of our controls over financial reporting. Our compliance with the annual internal control report requirement for each fiscal year will depend on the effectiveness of our financial reporting as well as data systems and controls throughout our company and operating subsidiaries. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adeq uate controls over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the event of acquiring companies that are not in compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As well, the complexity of our systems and controls may become more difficult to manage as we transform our operating structure and continue to reduce infrastructure costs. To effectively manage these changes, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, difficulties encountered in their implementation or operation, or difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system, could harm our operating results or cause it to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could ha ve a negative effect on our share price and our access to capital. Regulatory changes may cause us to incur increased costs. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies may increase our expenses as we may have to devote resources to respond to these new requirements. In particular, we incurred and may incur additional general administrative expenses to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, the process of moving from Canadian GAAP to IFRS, which will extend to 2011, required and will continue to require management’s time and attention, and may cause our general and administrative expenses to increase. Compliance with new rules could require the further commitment of significant financial resources and result in the diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities. F inally, the impact of these changes could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business. We require employees and management resources who are knowledgeable about the specialized nature of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel, our operations and financial results will suffer. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of and on the ability to attract qualified engineering, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must also provide significant training for our employee base due to the highly specialized nature of telecommunications test and service assurance industry. Our current personnel may be inadequate and we may fail to assimilate and train new employees. Highly skilled employees with the education and training that we require – especially employees with significant experience and expertise in international business development, product management, sales, engineering and operations – may be difficult to find. Once trained, our employees may also be hired by our competitors or leave the organization. 11 Table of Contents Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all potential liability. A successful claim exceeding our policy limits will reduce our cash position, increase our expenses and have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are designed to help network operators, network equipment manufacturers, cable operators and component manufacturers ensure network reliability. The failure of our products to perform to customer expectations could give rise to product liability and warranty claims. We carry insurance for product liability and take accounting reserves for warranty claims that we consider adequate in view of industry practice. In addition, we may face other types of claims by third parties in relation to the conduct of our business; a successful claim against us for an amount exceeding our policy limits would force us to use our own resources to pay the claim, which could result in a reduction of our cash available for other uses, increase our expenses and have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our reported financial results could suffer if there are charges related to impairment of goodwill or of intangible assets. We are required to test annually and review, when events or circumstances warrant, our goodwill related to business combinations, and determine if impairment has occurred. Intangible assets are also reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that costs may not be recoverable. For goodwill, recoverability is determined at the reporting unit level, using a two-step approach. First, the carrying value of the reporting units is compared to their fair value. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step is undertaken to determine the amount of impairment loss. Impairment of goodwill would result in an incremental charge which would adversely impact our operating results for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. For intangible asset s, impairment exists when the carrying amount/value of an asset or group of assets is greater than the undiscounted cash flows expected to be provided by the asset or group of assets. The amount of impairment loss, if any, is the excess of the carrying value over the fair value. We usually assess fair value of intangible assets based on discounted cash flows. In the third quarter of fiscal 2009, we performed our annual impairment test for goodwill for all reporting units. Following the decrease in our stock price in June 2009, we came to the conclusion that the carrying value of one of our reporting units exceeded its fair value and recorded a pre-tax impairment charge of $21.7 million. The turmoil in credit markets and in the broader economy has contributed to share price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that have reduced the market price of many technology stocks, including ours in fiscal 2009. Future discounted cash flows may be lower than expected or our stock price may decrease, which could cause the fair value of our reporting units to be lower than their carrying value. This may lead to goodwill impairment loss in the future. In addition, undiscounted cash flows may be lower than expected, which may cause the recoverable amount of certain intangible assets to be lower than their carrying value. Consequently, this could result in future intangible asset losses. As at August 31, 2010, we had $29.4 million of goodwill and $22.9 million of intangible assets on our balance sheet related to the acquisitions of Brix Networks and Nethawk Oyj. Any additional impairment of goodwill or of intangible assets would negatively impact our operating results. We may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation that may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. We may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. For example, we are a defendant in a putative securities class action suit filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York involving approximately 300 other issuing companies. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management attention from our business and operations. 12 Table of Contents If we suffer loss to our factories or facilities, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our factories and facilities are subject to catastrophic losses due to fire, vandalism, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. We do not have redundant multiple-site capacity and if any of our facilities or factories were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses, thereby harming our results of operation. Unexpected declines in our research and development and other tax credits and grants may have an adverse effect on our business. Our historical operating results reflect substantial benefits from programs sponsored by federal and provincial governments for the support of research and development activities, as well as in relation to other activities. In addition, newly acquired NetHawk Oyj is entitled to government grants from a Finnish technology organization for research and development activities conducted in Finland. Altogether, research and development tax credits and grants represented 15.0% of our gross research and development expenses for the year ended August 31, 2010. If unexpected changes in the laws or government policies terminate or adversely modify the Canadian and Quebec government programs or the Finnish government program, under which we receive the majority of our research and development and other tax credits and grants, or if we unexpectedly become unable to participate in or take advantage of these programs, then our net research and development and other expenses will materially increase or we may decrease our research and development activities. In addition, to the extent that we have increased and intend to continue increasing our research and development activities in India, or potentially acquire new companies, our increased R&D activities may not be eligible for these programs. If we were required to decrease our research and development activitie s, or were unable to benefit from other tax credits and grants, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in our effective tax rate or adverse outcomes resulting from tax audits may have an adverse impact on our results. As an international corporation, we are subject to taxation in the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business. Significant judgment is required in the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and this determination requires the interpretation and application of complex tax laws and regulations. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by the level of earnings, by changes in the mix of earnings among companies and countries which may have different statutory tax rates, by the valuation of our deferred tax assets, and by changes in tax rules and regulations. We are also subject to income tax audits and transfer pricing audits in the respective jurisdictions in which we conduct business and we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these audits to ascer tain the adequacy of our provisions for income taxes and transfer pricing policies. There can be no assurance that the outcomes of these tax audits, if any, will not have an adverse impact on our result and financial condition. Our current principal stockholder has effective control over our business. As of November 1, 2010, Germain Lamonde, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, held 94.12% of the voting rights in our stock. By virtue of such stock ownership, Mr. Lamonde has effective control over all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our Directors, and exercises significant control over our policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders and may harm the market price of our shares. 13 Table of Contents If we complete major acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may need additional capital, and may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and could increase our costs. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict because they depend on numerous factors, including the success of our existing and new product offerings as well as competing technology and market developments. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to meet additional working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. In fiscal 2010, the respective cash payments of $33.0 million and $9.0 million for the acquisition of NetHawk Oyj and the purchase of capital assets, exceeded the $1.8 million provided by cash flows from operations. As at August 31, 2010, we held $31.8 million in cash and short-term investments. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, effects of the financial crisis, reduced access to credit facilities and our operating performance. These factors may render the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive for us. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. If we raise funds through debt financing, we could incur significant borrowing costs and be required to meet more restrictive debt covenants. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed or at terms satisfactory to us , our ability to operate and grow our business could be impeded. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, efficiency and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructures as well as our ability to expand and update these infrastructures in response to our evolving needs. Any failure to manage, expand or update our information technology infrastructures or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Our information systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, it could harm our business. In addition, these events may force us to devote more money and resources in order to protect ourselves against damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. 14 Table of Contents 