RISK FACTORS You should consider carefully all of the information set forth or incorporated by reference in this document and, in particular, the following risk factors associated with the Business of Coach and forward-looking information in this document. Please also see “Special Note on Forward-Looking Information” on page 2. If Coach is unable to successfully implement its growth strategies or manage its growing business, its future operating results could suffer. Successful implementation of Coach’s strategies and initiatives will require it to manage its growth. To manage growth effectively, Coach will need to continue to increase its outsourced manufacturing while maintaining strict quality control. Coach will also need to continue to improve its operating systems to respond to any increased demand. It could suffer a loss of consumer goodwill and a decline in sales if its products do not continue to meet its quality control standards or if it is unable to adequately respond to increases in consumer demand for its products. Coach’s inability to respond to changes in consumer demands and fashion trends in a timely manner could adversely affect its sales. Coach’s success depends on its ability to identify, originate and define product and fashion trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Its products must appeal to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with certainty and are subject to rapid change. Coach cannot assure that it will be able to continue to develop appealing styles or meet changing consumer demands in the future. If Coach misjudges the demand for its products it may incur increased costs due to excess inventories. If Coach misjudges the market for its products it may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for other products. In addition, because Coach places orders for products with its manufacturers before it receives wholesale customers’ orders, it could experience higher excess inventories if wholesale customers order fewer products than anticipated. Competition in the markets in which Coach operates is intense, and our competitors may develop products that are more popular with consumers. Coach faces intense competition in the product lines and markets in which it operates. Coach’s products compete with other brands of products within their product category and with private label products sold by retailers, including some of Coach’s wholesale customers. In its wholesale business, Coach competes with numerous manufacturers, importers and distributors of handbags, accessories and other products for the limited space available for the display of these products to the consumer. Moreover, the general availability of contract manufacturing allows new entrants easy access to the markets in which Coach operates, which may increase the number of competitors and adversely affect its competitive position and business. Finally, some of Coach’s competitors have achieved significant recognition for their brand names. A downturn in the economy may affect consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, which could adversely affect Coach’s sales. Many factors affect the level of consumer spending in the handbag and luxury accessories industry, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, taxation and consumer confidence in future economic conditions. Consumer purchases of discretionary luxury items, such as Coach products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in which Coach sells its products may adversely affect Coach’s sales. 12 Table of Contents Coach’s gross profit may decrease if it becomes unable to obtain its products from, or sell its products in, other countries due to adverse international events that are beyond its control. In order to lower its sourcing costs and increase its gross profit, Coach has shifted its production to independent non-U.S. manufacturers in lower-cost markets. Coach’s international manufacturers are subject to many risks, including foreign governmental regulations, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments, limits on production capacity, changes in local economic conditions and trade issues. These factors, among others, could influence the ability of these independent manufacturers to make or export Coach products cost-effectively or at all or to procure some of the materials used in these products. The violation of labor or other laws by any of Coach’s independent manufacturers, or the divergence of an independent manufacturer’s labor practices from those generally accepted as ethical by Coach or others in the U.S., could damage Coach’s reputation and force it to locate alternative manufacturing sources. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could increase the cost of raw materials or labor for these independent manufacturers, which they could pass along to Coach, resulting in higher costs and decreased margins for its products. If any of these factors were to render a particular country undesirable or impractical as a source of supply, there could be an adverse effect on Coach’s business, including its gross profit. Coach’s failure to continue to increase sales of its products in international markets could adversely affect its gross profit. International sales are subject to many risks, including foreign governmental regulations, foreign consumer preferences, political unrest, disruptions or delays in shipments to other nations, tourism and changes in local economic conditions. These factors, among others, could influence Coach’s ability to sell products successfully in international markets. Coach generally purchases products from international manufacturers in U.S. dollars and sells these products in the U.S. and to its international wholesale customers in U.S. dollars. However, Coach’s international wholesale customers sell Coach products in the relevant local currencies, and currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the retail prices of the products and result in decreased international consumer demand. Coach’s business is subject to foreign exchange risk. Coach sells products to its international wholesale customers in U.S. dollars. However, those distributors sell Coach product in the relevant local currency. Currency exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect the retail prices of the products and result in decreased international demand. The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations with respect to Coach Japan as a result of its U.S. dollar denominated inventory purchases. In order to manage this risk, Coach Japan enters into forward exchange contracts that allow them to obtain dollars at a rate that is set concurrent with the requisition of inventory. These contracts meet the definition of a derivative under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” As these contracts are entered into before the receipt of inventory, the contract rate may be higher or lower than market rates when the goods are received and the payment is completed. All contracts are fair valued at the end of each reporting period. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, effective subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in other comprehensive income and are recognized in the statement of operations when the hedged items affect earnings. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recognized in earnings immediately. This non-cash charge or credit can result in fluctuations in the reported financial results. Coach consolidates the financial results of Coach Japan into its financial statements. The functional currency of Coach Japan is the Japanese yen. Operating results are converted to U.S. dollars based on the average exchange rate during the period and the balance sheet is converted to U.S. dollars based on the exchange rate at the end of the reporting period. If Coach loses key management or design personnel or is unable to attract and retain the talent required for its business, its operating results could suffer. Coach’s performance depends largely on the efforts and abilities of its senior management and design teams. These executives and employees have substantial experience and expertise in Coach’s business and 13 Table of Contents have made significant contributions to its growth and success. Coach is a party to employment agreements with certain executives which provide for compensation and other benefits. The agreements also provide for severance payments under certain circumstances. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these individuals could have an adverse effect on Coach’s business. As the business grows, Coach will need to attract and retain additional qualified personnel and develop, train and manage an increasing number of management level, sales and other employees. Coach cannot guarantee that it will be able to attract and retain personnel as needed in the future. Coach’s operating results are subject to seasonal and quarterly fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market price of its common stock. Because Coach products are frequently given as gifts, Coach has historically realized, and expects to continue to realize, higher sales and operating income in the second quarter of its fiscal year, which includes the holiday months of November and December. In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter are affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail sales. However, over the past several years, we have achieved higher levels of growth in the non holiday quarters, which has reduced these seasonal fluctuations. We expect that these trends will continue and that we will continue to balance our year round business. Coach’s trademark and other proprietary rights could potentially conflict with the rights of others and it may be inhibited from selling some of its products. If Coach is unable to protect its trademarks and other proprietary rights, others may sell imitation brand products. Coach believes that its registered and common law trademarks and design patents are important to its ability to create and sustain demand for Coach products. Coach cannot assure that it will not encounter trademark, patent or trade dress disputes in the future as it expands its product line and the geographic scope of its marketing. Coach also cannot assure that the actions taken by it to establish and protect its trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of its products or infringement of its trademarks and proprietary rights by others. The laws of some foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the U.S. and it may be more difficult for Coach to successfully challenge the use of its proprietary rights by other parties in these countries. Provisions in Coach’s charter and bylaws, Maryland law or its “poison pill” may delay or prevent an acquisition of Coach by a third party. Coach’s charter and bylaws and Maryland law contain provisions that could make it harder for a third party to acquire Coach without the consent of Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s charter permits its Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to amend the charter to increase or decrease the aggregate number of shares of stock or the number of shares of stock of any class or series that Coach has the authority to issue. In addition, Coach’s Board of Directors may classify or reclassify any unissued shares of common stock or preferred stock and may set the preferences, rights and other terms of the classified or reclassified shares. Although Coach’s Board of Directors has no intention to do so at the present time, it could establish a series of preferred stock that could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Coach’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Coach’s stockholders. On May 3, 2001 Coach declared a “poison pill” dividend distribution of rights to buy additional common stock to the holder of each outstanding share of Coach’s common stock. Subject to limited exceptions, these rights may be exercised if a person or group intentionally acquires 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or announces a tender offer for 10% or more of the common stock on terms not approved by the Coach Board of Directors. In this event, each right would entitle the holder of each share of Coach’s common stock to buy one additional common share of Coach stock at an exercise price far below the then-current market price. Subject to certain exceptions, Coach’s Board of Directors will be entitled to redeem the rights at $0.001 per right at any time before the close of business on the tenth day following either the public announcement that, or the date on which a majority of Coach’s Board of Directors becomes aware that, a person has acquired 10% or 14 Table of Contents more of the outstanding common stock. As of the end of fiscal 2005, there were no shareholders whose common stock holdings exceeded the 10% threshold established by the rights plan. Coach’s bylaws can only be amended by Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s bylaws also provide that nominations of persons for election to Coach’s Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered at a stockholders meeting may be made only in the notice of the meeting, by Coach’s Board of Directors or by a stockholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting and has complied with the advance notice procedures of Coach’s bylaws. Also, under Maryland law, business combinations, including issuances of equity securities, between Coach and any person who beneficially owns 10% or more of Coach’s common stock or an affiliate of such person are prohibited for a five-year period unless exempted in accordance with the statute. After this period, a combination of this type must be approved by two super-majority stockholder votes, unless some conditions are met or the business combination is exempted by Coach’s Board of Directors. Coach’s Board has exempted any business combination with us or any of our affiliates from the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote requirements. These and other provisions of Maryland law or Coach’s charter and bylaws could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Coach’s common stock or otherwise be in the best interest of Coach’s stockholders. 