Item 1A. Risk Factors. We provide the following cautionary discussion of risks, uncertainties and possibly inaccurate assumptions relevant to our businesses. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These are factors that we think could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results. However, it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. The risks and uncertainties referred to above include, but are not limited to: · price and product competition, including from competitors who may offer products and applications similar to those we offer as part of another offering; · rapid or disruptive technological development, including the effects of the technology shift from traditional TDM to IP telephony; · dependence on new product development; · customer demand for our products and services, including risks specifically associated with the services business and, in particular, the maintenance and rental and managed services lines of business, primarily due to renegotiations of customer contracts and changes in scope, pricing erosion and cancellations; · supply issues related to our outsourced manufacturing operations, logistics, distribution or components; · risks related to inventory, including warranty costs, obsolescence charges, excess capacity, material and labor costs, and our distributors’ decisions regarding their own inventory levels; · general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; · the economic, political and other risks associated with international sales and operations, including increased exposure to currency fluctuations and to European economies as a result of a large percentage of our business being conducted in Europe; · the ability to successfully integrate acquired companies, which may require significant management time and attention; · the ability to attract and retain qualified employees; · control of costs and expenses, including difficulties in completing restructuring actions in a timely and efficient manner due to labor laws and required approvals; · U.S. and non-U.S. government regulation; and · the ability to form and implement alliances. Below is a detailed discussion of certain of these risks and other risks affecting our business. The categorization of risks set forth below is meant to help you better understand the risks facing our business and is not intended to limit your consideration of the possible effects of these risks to the listed categories. Any adverse effects related to the risks discussed below may, and likely will, adversely affect many aspects of our business. 18 Risks Related To Our Revenue and Business Strategy A key component of our strategy is our focus on the development and sale of advanced communications products and applications and related services, including IP telephony solutions, and this strategy may not be successful. A key component of our strategy is our focus on the development and sale of IP telephony solutions and other advanced communications products and applications and related services. Our product offerings include IP telephony systems and traditional voice communications systems, multi-media contact center infrastructure and applications in support of customer relationship management, unified communications applications and appliances, such as IP telephone sets. These offerings are part of our broader vision of “Intelligent Communications,” which seamlessly connects communications applications and business applications, giving workers, customers and processes the ability to be linked to the right person, at the right time, by the right medium - voice, text and video - over any network. In order to execute this strategy successfully, we must continue to: · train our sales staff and distribution partners to sell new types of products, applications and services and improve our marketing of such products, applications and services; · research and develop more IP telephony solutions and other advanced communications products and applications; · increase the performance and reliability of new products and ensure that the performance and reliability of these products meet our customers’ expectations; · acquire key technologies through licensing, development contracts, alliances and acquisitions; · train our services employees and channel partners to service new products and applications, and take other measures to ensure we can deliver consistent levels of service globally to our multinational customers; · enhance our services organization’s ability to service more complex, multi-vendor IP networks, versus traditional closed, proprietary TDM networks, and in general ensure that there is a sufficient level of service technicians with IP skills; · make sales to our existing customers that incorporate our advanced communications products, applications and services with and without retaining their existing network infrastructure; · expand our current customer base by selling our advanced communications products, applications and services to enterprises that have not previously purchased our products and applications; · develop relationships with new types of channel partners who are capable of both selling more advanced products and extending our reach into new and existing markets; and · establish presence in key geographic markets. If we do not successfully execute this strategy, our operating results may be adversely affected. Moreover, even if we successfully address these challenges, our operating results may still be adversely affected if the market opportunity for advanced communications products, applications and services, including IP telephony solutions, does not develop in the ways that we anticipate. The ratio of revenue attributable to IP telephony solutions versus traditional voice communication systems is expected to increase as more and more companies convert to IP telephony solutions. However, IP telephony lines currently constitute a small percentage of global installed enterprise telephony lines and if IP telephony does not gain widespread acceptance in the marketplace as an alternative replacement option for enterprise telephony systems our overall revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful in increasing our revenue from sales of IP telephony solutions, if revenue from 19 traditional enterprise voice communications systems and services declines faster than revenue from IP telephony solutions increases, our overall revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. As the industry begins to go through the mainstream adoption phase, we cannot predict whether: · the demand for advanced communications products, applications, and services, including IP telephony solutions, will grow as quickly as we anticipate; · current or future competitors or new technologies will cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; · other technologies will become more accepted or standard in our industry; or · we will be able to maintain a leadership or profitable position as this opportunity develops. We face intense competition from our current competitors and, as the enterprise communications and information technology markets evolve, may face increased competition from companies that do not currently compete directly against us. For information regarding the competitors we face in our different markets as well as various competitive risks associated with our business and our segments, please refer to Item 1. “Business—Competition.” Although our revenue has continued to increase since 2003, we recently have experienced difficulties in significantly growing our revenue other than through acquisitions. Although our revenue increased from $4,069 million in fiscal 2004 to $4,902 million in fiscal 2005 and $5,148 million in fiscal 2006, we recently have experienced difficulty in significantly growing our revenue. Our operating results for fiscal 2005 and 2006 include the operating results of Tenovis from November 18, 2004, as well as other acquisitions. One factor that significantly affects our operating results is the impact of economic conditions on the willingness of enterprises to make capital investments, particularly in enterprise communications technology and related services. Although general economic conditions have improved in recent years, we believe that enterprises continue to be concerned about their ability to increase revenues and thereby increase their profitability. Accordingly, they have tried to maintain or improve profitability through cost control and constrained capital spending. Because it is not certain whether enterprises will increase spending on enterprise communications technology significantly in the near term, we could experience continued pressure on our ability to increase our revenue. Our ability to grow revenue is also affected by other factors, such as competitive pricing pressures and price erosion, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Key Trends and Uncertainties Affecting Our Revenue—Technology transition,” “—Competitive environment’’ and “—Pressures on services business,” which are included in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders. If these or other conditions limit our ability to grow revenue or cause our revenue to decline and we cannot reduce costs on a timely basis or at all, our operating results will be adversely affected. Risks Related To Our Operations If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses into ours effectively, our operating results may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, the integration of these businesses has required, and will likely continue to require, significant resources and management attention. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours, and therefore we may not be able to realize the intended benefits from an acquisition. If we fail to successfully integrate these acquisitions or if they fail to perform as we anticipated, our existing businesses and our revenue and 20 operating results could be adversely affected. If the due diligence of the operations of these acquired businesses performed by us and by third parties on our behalf were inadequate or flawed, we could later discover unforeseen financial or business liabilities, or the acquired businesses may not perform as expected. Additionally, acquisitions could result in difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products, and the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. To the extent that the Company expands internationally through acquisitions and fails to identify and respond to cross-cultural employee issues appropriately, it may fail to retain employees acquired through those acquisitions, which may negatively impact its integration efforts. Acquisitions could also have a negative impact on our results of operations if it is subsequently determined that goodwill or other acquired intangible assets are impaired, thus resulting in an impairment charge in a future period. Finally, acquisitions often necessitate restructurings in order to control costs and expenses and optimize the operational performance of the combined entity. These restructurings are more difficult due to labor laws and required approvals when the acquired business is a company operating in multiple jurisdictions, which may hinder completion of restructuring actions in a timely and efficient manner and delay anticipated cost savings. We rely on outsourced product manufacturers, distributors and warehousing agents for our products and various issues with respect to the delivery of our products could arise which could adversely impact both our revenue and our costs. We have outsourced substantially all of our manufacturing operations and we may experience significant disruption to our operations by outsourcing too much of our manufacturing. Our ability to realize the intended benefits of our manufacturing outsourcing initiative depends on the willingness and ability of our contract manufacturers to produce our products. If a contract manufacturer terminates its relationship with us or is unable to fill our orders on a timely basis or in accordance with our quality requirements, we may be unable to deliver the affected products to meet our customers’ orders, which could delay or decrease our revenue or otherwise have an adverse effect on our operations. As discussed in Item 1. “Business—Manufacturing and Supplies,” we recently have experienced these types of disruptions and delays and they have impacted our ability to meet timelines for our customer requirements. In addition, we periodically review our product manufacturing operations and consider appropriate changes as necessary. Although we endeavor to appropriately manage any disruption in transitioning from one contract manufacturer to another contract manufacturer, we may experience significant disruption to our operations during any contract manufacturer transition, and did experience such a disruption recently while making this type of transition. See Item 1. “Business—Manufacturing and Supplies” for more information. As we continue to seek to optimize our end to end supply chain, we have also been outsourcing various logistics functions over the course of the past few years. We rely on third-party logistics service providers to provide services for our business, including warehousing and physical distribution. If a logistics service provider does not meet our service level and quality requirements for any reason, we may be unable to fulfill our customers orders in a timely and accurate manner, which could delay or decrease our revenue or otherwise have an adverse effect on our revenue and our costs. In the first quarter of fiscal 2007 we moved certain warehousing and staging operations to a different third party logistics service provider at a new facility, which now services a significant portion of our warehousing and physical distribution needs. While we and our logistics service provider have been making improvements as we progress through this transition, there have been disruptions and delays in delivery of certain products from this facility and this could have an adverse effect on our revenue and increase our costs. We also rely on outside sources for the supply of the components of our products and for the finished products that we purchase from third parties. In some cases certain components are only available from a single source or from a limited source of suppliers. Delays or shortages associated with these components 21 could cause significant disruption to our operations. We have in the past experienced component shortages that have affected our operations and we may in the future experience these shortages. Shortages could be a result of manufacturing or capacity issues at our outsourced manufacturers or suppliers or strong demand for certain products for which we have not made adequate forecasts. Our operating results could be adversely affected if shortages or delays persist or if the price of the necessary components increases or the components become unavailable at reasonable prices or at all. For more information concerning the risks associated with our contract manufacturers operating internationally, please see Item 1A. “Risk Factors—Risks Related To Our Operations—As our international business has grown significantly in the last fiscal year, changes in economic or political conditions in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition.” If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, our business and future prospects may be harmed. We protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures. Despite our efforts, protecting our intellectual property is difficult and not always certain, and the measures we take may not provide adequate protection for our proprietary rights, particularly in countries that do not have well-developed judicial systems or laws that adequately protect intellectual property rights. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of our filings, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Competitors may misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise fall into the public domain or be independently developed by competitors. We believe that developing new products and technology that are unique to Avaya is critical to our success. We rely on the security of our information systems, among other things, to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. If we do not maintain adequate security procedures over our information systems, we may be susceptible to computer hacking, cyberterrorism or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access our proprietary information or that of our customers. Even if we are able to maintain procedures that are adequate to address current security risks, hackers, cyberterrorists or other unauthorized users may develop new techniques that will enable them to successfully circumvent our current security procedures. The failure to protect our proprietary information could seriously harm our business and future prospects or expose us to claims by our customers, employees or others that we did not adequately protect their proprietary information. As our international business has grown significantly in the last two fiscal years, changes in economic or political conditions in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries outside of the United States and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. For the fiscal years ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, we derived 42% and 41% of our revenue, respectively, from sales outside the United States. Our future international operating results, including our ability to import our products to, export our products from, or sell our products in various countries, could be materially adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, health or similar issues, natural disasters and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Currently, we have concerns about weakness and uncertainty in European economies, including high unemployment levels and low economic growth forecasts, particularly in Germany where we have a high concentration of our business resulting from the Tenovis acquisition. 22 Other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, environmental, monetary and fiscal policies, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the United States. For example, the EU has enacted the RoHS and WEEE directives, which are discussed in “Item 1. “Business—Manufacturing and Supplies.” Additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries, and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights. Our effective tax rates in the future could be adversely affected if the geographical distribution of our earnings and losses is unfavorable, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. The various risks inherent in doing business in the United States generally also exist when doing business outside of the United States, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. In addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United States, we face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates which can be adverse. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. An increase in the value of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those markets outside the United States, and a weakened U.S. dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of raw materials. Risks Related to Contingent Liabilities We may incur liabilities as a result of our obligation to indemnify, and to share certain liabilities with, Lucent in connection with our spin-off from Lucent in September 2000. Pursuant to the Contribution and Distribution Agreement, Lucent contributed to us substantially all of the assets, liabilities and operations associated with its enterprise networking businesses and distributed all of the outstanding shares of our common stock to its stockholders. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement, among other things, provides that, in general, we will indemnify Lucent for all liabilities including certain pre-distribution tax obligations of Lucent relating to our businesses and all contingent liabilities primarily relating to our businesses or otherwise assigned to us. In addition, the Contribution and Distribution Agreement provides that certain contingent liabilities not directly identifiable with one of the parties will be shared in the proportion of 90% by Lucent and 10% by us. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement also provides that contingent liabilities in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to Lucent’s businesses shall be borne 90% by Lucent and 10% by us and contingent liabilities in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to our businesses shall be borne equally by the parties. Please see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies—Legal Proceedings,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements which are included in our 2006 Annual Report to Shareholders for a description of certain matters involving Lucent for which we have assumed responsibility under the Contribution and Distribution Agreement. We cannot assure you that Lucent will not submit a claim for indemnification or cost sharing to us in connection with any future matter. In addition, our ability to assess the impact of matters for which we may have to indemnify or share the cost with Lucent is made more difficult by the fact that we do not control the defense of these matters. 23 We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties asserting that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software infringe their intellectual property rights. We cannot assure you that the number of these notices will not increase in the future and that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. Irrespective of the merits of these claims, if someone claimed that our proprietary or licensed systems and software infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. These matters may result in any number of outcomes for us, including entering into licensing agreements, redesigning our products to avoid infringement, being enjoined from selling products that are found to infringe, paying damages if products are found to infringe, and indemnifying customers from claims as part of our contractual obligations. Royalty or license agreements may be very costly or we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against us or our proprietary or licensed systems. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could materially adversely affect our operating results. We have made and will likely continue to make investments to license and/or acquire the use of third party intellectual property rights and technology as part of our strategy to manage this risk, but we cannot assure you that we will be successful. We may also be subject to additional notice and other requirements to the extent we incorporate open source software into our applications. In addition, third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that a customer’s use of our products, systems or software infringes the third party’s intellectual property rights. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to indemnify our customers for some of the costs and damages related to such an infringement claim. Any indemnification requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. If the distribution does not qualify for tax-free treatment, we could be required to pay Lucent or the Internal Revenue Service a substantial amount of money. Lucent has received a private letter ruling from the Internal Revenue Service stating, based on certain assumptions and representations, that the distribution would not be taxable to Lucent. Nevertheless, Lucent could incur a significant tax liability if the distribution did not qualify for tax-free treatment because any of those assumptions or representations were not correct. We could be liable for all or a portion of any taxes owed for the following reasons. First, as part of the distribution, we and Lucent entered into the Tax Sharing Agreement, which generally allocates between Lucent and us the taxes and liabilities relating to the failure of the distribution to be tax-free. Under the Tax Sharing Agreement, if the distribution fails to qualify as a tax-free distribution because of an issuance or an acquisition of our stock or an acquisition of our assets, or some other actions of ours, then we will be solely liable for any resulting taxes to Lucent. Second, aside from the Tax Sharing Agreement, under U.S. Federal income tax laws, we and Lucent are jointly and severally liable for Lucent’s U.S. Federal income taxes resulting from the distribution being taxable. This means that even if we do not have to indemnify Lucent under the Tax Sharing Agreement, we may still be liable for all or part of these taxes if Lucent fails to pay them. These liabilities of Lucent could arise from actions taken by Lucent over which we have no control, including an issuance or acquisition of stock (or acquisition of assets) of Lucent. 24 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 