Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report, including but not limited to, the discussion under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting obligations on our indebtedness. The significant terms of our financing agreements can be found in Note 9, “Financing Arrangements,” to the audited consolidated financial statements. As of September 30, 2010, our total indebtedness was $5,928 million (excluding capital lease obligations). Our high degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing our 9.75% senior unsecured cash pay notes due 2015 and our 10.125%/10.875% senior unsecured PIK toggle notes due 2015 (together, the “senior unsecured notes” or our “notes”) contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specific types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt and issue or sell certain preferred stock; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain acquisitions or investments; • incur or assume certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets to, or merge or consolidate with, another company. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or both of our credit facilities and/or the indenture governing the notes. In the event of any default under either of our credit facilities, the applicable 13 Table of Contents lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable, which would be an event of default under the indenture governing the notes. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, our lenders could sell the collateral securing our credit facilities, which constitutes substantially all of our and our domestic wholly owned subsidiaries’ assets. Although holders of the notes could accelerate the notes upon the acceleration of the obligations under either of our credit facilities, there can be no assurance that sufficient assets will remain to repay the notes after we have paid all the borrowings and loans under our credit facilities. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and our other ongoing liquidity needs, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations, including our senior unsecured notes, and to fund our planned capital expenditures, acquisitions and other ongoing liquidity needs depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under either of our credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, including the notes. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness, including the notes. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit facilities and the indenture governing the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. Accordingly, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain any proceeds on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our substantial level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness. This could further exacerbate the risks associated with our substantial leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although our credit facilities and the indenture governing our senior unsecured notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any additional borrowings under our credit facilities effectively would be senior to the notes and the guarantees of the notes by our subsidiary guarantors to the extent of the value of the assets securing such borrowings. In addition, if we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. To the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ currently anticipated debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries face could intensify. The right of holders of our senior unsecured notes to receive payments is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. Our obligations under our senior unsecured notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the notes are unsecured, but our obligations, and each other borrower’s obligations, under each of our credit facilities, and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of those facilities, are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the stock and the assets of most of our current and certain future wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our 14 Table of Contents non-U.S. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2010, we had $5,928 million in outstanding debt (excluding capital lease obligations) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which $4,394 million was secured. The indenture governing the notes permits us and our restricted subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under either of our credit facilities, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the notes at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims of holders of our notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy those claims fully. The claims of holders of our senior unsecured notes to assets of any non-guarantor subsidiary are structurally subordinated to all of the creditors of that subsidiary. In general, our foreign subsidiaries, unrestricted subsidiaries, non-wholly owned subsidiaries and other subsidiaries that do not borrow or guarantee our indebtedness under our credit facilities are not required to guarantee our senior unsecured notes. Accordingly, claims of holders of the notes are structurally subordinated to the claims of creditors of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors. All obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise, to us or a guarantor of the notes. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on our senior unsecured notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under either of our credit facilities, that is not waived by the required lenders, and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on our senior unsecured notes and substantially decrease the market value of the notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we breach our covenants under either of our credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to repurchase our senior unsecured notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior unsecured notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The source of funds for any such purchase of the notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we may be contractually restricted under the terms of our credit facilities from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the notes unless we are able to refinance 15 Table of Contents or obtain waivers under our credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase the notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture governing the notes and a cross default under our credit facilities. The credit facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings and loans thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void or limit the amount payable under our senior unsecured notes or the guarantees, and, if that occurs, a holder of our senior unsecured notes may receive limited or no payments on the notes and guarantees affected. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of our senior unsecured notes and the incurrence of the guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; • the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; • we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay as they mature; or • we or any of the guarantors were a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. If a court were to find that the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the notes or such guarantee or limit the amount of payment or subordinate the notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the notes to repay any amounts received. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of our notes may not receive any payment on the notes. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. Under applicable law, a court may determine that a debtor has not received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the notes or the guarantees would not be voided, limited in amount or subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. A holder of our senior unsecured notes may be required to pay U.S. federal income tax on our PIK toggle notes even if we do not pay cash interest. We have the option to pay interest on our senior unsecured PIK toggle notes in cash interest or PIK interest. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, the existence of this option means that none of the interest payments on the PIK toggle notes is qualified stated interest. Consequently, the PIK toggle notes are treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as issued at a discount and income inclusions on these notes will be determined pursuant to the original issue discount (“OID”) rules. A U.S. Holder will be required to include OID in gross income as it accrues, regardless of whether such holder uses the accrual method of accounting. 16 Table of Contents We are controlled by Silver Lake and TPG, whose interests may not be aligned with a holder of our senior unsecured notes. The Sponsors and their affiliated funds own a majority of the outstanding equity securities of our Parent. In addition, the Sponsors control substantially all of the voting power of our outstanding equity securities and therefore ultimately control all of our affairs and policies, including the election of our board of directors, the approval of certain actions such as amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including, without limitation, incurring debt, issuing stock, selling assets and engaging in mergers and acquisitions) and appointing members of our management. In addition, each of the Sponsors has invested in our loans issued under our senior credit facility. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Sponsors could be in conflict with a holder of our notes. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the Sponsors might pursue strategies that favor equity investors or our secured creditors over unsecured note holders. The Sponsors may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to a holder of our notes. Additionally, the Sponsors are not prohibited from making investments in any of our competitors. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our senior unsecured notes may be affected by our organizational structure. We are dependent upon payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments to holders of our senior unsecured notes, and our ability to receive funds from our subsidiaries is dependent upon the profitability of our subsidiaries and restrictions imposed by law and contracts. We rely upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate a significant portion of the funds necessary to meet our obligations. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under our senior unsecured notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. Further, the creditors of our subsidiaries have direct claims on the subsidiaries and their assets and the claims of holders of the notes are “structurally subordinated” to any existing and future liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. This means that the creditors of the non-guarantor subsidiaries have priority in their claims on the assets of such subsidiaries over the creditors of us, including the holders of the notes. A holder’s ability to transfer our senior unsecured notes may be limited by the absence of an active trading market, and an active trading market for the notes may not develop. The senior unsecured notes are relatively new securities for which there is no established market. Accordingly, the development or liquidity of any market for the notes is uncertain. We do not intend to apply for a listing of the notes on a securities exchange or any automated dealer quotation system. We cannot assure holders of our notes as to the liquidity of markets that may develop for the notes, their ability to sell the notes or the price at which they would be able to sell the notes. If such markets were to exist, the notes could trade at prices that may be lower than their principal amount or purchase price depending on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar notes, our financial and operations performance and other factors. Historically, the market for noninvestment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the notes. The market, if any, for the notes may experience similar disruptions, and any such disruptions may adversely affect the prices at which a holder may sell their notes. Risks Related to Our Business A key component of our strategy is our focus on the development and sale of advanced communications products and services, and this strategy may not be successful. We have completed the integration of the Avaya and NES product lines and are executing our new product roadmap. We believe that our current portfolio of products and solutions is technologically strong, communications technology continues to evolve and software continues to be a more important component of our product offerings. In addition, both traditional and new competitors are investing heavily in this market and competing for customers. 17 Table of Contents In order to execute our strategy successfully, we must: • expand our customer base by selling to enterprises that previously have not purchased from us; • retain and expand our presence with existing customers by providing them new value related to our offerings; • continue research and development investment, including investment in new software and platform development; • train our sales staff and distribution partners to sell new products and services including, but not limited to, the recently launched Avaya Flare™ Experience and our new video products; • improve our marketing of existing and new products and services; • acquire key technologies through licensing, development contracts, alliances and acquisitions; • train our services employees and channel partners to service new or enhanced products and applications and take other measures to ensure we can deliver consistent levels of service globally to our multinational customers; • enhance our services organization’s ability to service complex, multi-vendor IP networks; • recruit and retain qualified personnel, particularly in research and development, services and sales; • transform the maintenance model of the NES installed base of customers; • foster relationships with channel partners who previously sold products and services of NES; • develop relationships with new types of channel partners who are capable of both selling advanced products and extending our reach into new and existing markets; • leverage the data networking business acquired in the NES acquisition to enhance our ability to compete against data networking providers that also sell voice and other unified communications solutions; and • establish or expand our presence in key geographic markets. If we do not successfully execute our strategy, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to develop our indirect sales channel. We continue to take steps to sell our products and services into new and expanded geographic markets and to a broader customer base. An important element of our go-to-market strategy, therefore, involves developing our indirect sales channel, which includes our global network of alliance partners, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers, telecommunications service providers and system integrators. For example, by consummating the acquisition of NES, we expanded our indirect channel network and gained relationships with new channel partners. Our relationships with channel partners are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel partners were terminated, if our relationships with channel partners were to deteriorate, if our maintenance pricing or other services strategies conflict with those of our channel partners, if any of our competitors were to enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel partner or if the financial condition of our channel partners were to weaken. In addition, we may expend time, money and other resources on developing and maintaining channel relationships that are ultimately unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing relationships with channel partners, including those obtained as a result of the acquisition of NES. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. 18 Table of Contents Our revenues are dependent on general economic conditions and the willingness of enterprises to make capital investments. One factor that significantly affects our operating results is the impact of economic conditions on the willingness of enterprises to make capital investments, particularly in enterprise communications technology and related services. Given the current state of the economy, we believe that enterprises continue to be concerned about sustained economic growth and have tried to maintain or improve profitability through cost control and constrained capital spending. Because it is not certain whether enterprises will increase spending on enterprise communications technology significantly in the near term, we could experience continued pressure on our ability to increase our revenue. Our ability to grow revenue also may be affected by other factors, such as competitive pricing pressures, price erosion and our ability to effectively and consistently price new and existing offers in the marketplace. If these or other conditions limit our ability to grow revenue or cause our revenue to decline and we cannot reduce costs on a timely basis or at all, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. The market opportunity for advanced communications products and services, including our unified communications and business collaboration solutions, may not develop in the ways that we anticipate. The demand for our offerings can change quickly and in ways that we may not anticipate because the market in which we operate is characterized by rapid, and sometimes disruptive, technological developments, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and a limited ability to accurately forecast future customer orders. Our operating results may be adversely affected if the market opportunity for our products and services does not develop in the ways that we anticipate. We cannot predict whether: • our product roadmap will be sufficient to attract and retain customers and channel partners or that we can execute the roadmap successfully; • the demand for our products and services will grow as quickly as we anticipate; • current or future competitors or new technologies will cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; • other technologies will become more accepted or standard in our industry; or • we will be able to maintain a leadership or profitable position as this opportunity develops. We face formidable competition from numerous established firms in the enterprise communications, business collaboration and information technology markets; as these markets evolve, we expect competition to intensify and expand to include new companies that do not currently compete directly against us. Because we focus on the development and marketing of advanced enterprise communications solutions, such as unified communications, contact center and data networking solutions, we compete against traditional enterprise voice communications providers, such as SEN, Alcatel-Lucent and NEC, data networking companies, such as Cisco, Juniper, and Brocade, and software companies, such as Microsoft. Our video conferencing solutions both partner and compete with solutions offered by Polycom Inc., TANDBERG (now Cisco) and LifeSize (now a division of Logitech International S.A.). We also face competition in the small and medium enterprise market from many competitors, including Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, NEC, Matsushita Electric Corporation of America, Mitel, and Shoretel, although the market for these products is more fragmented. We face competition in certain geographies with companies that have a particular strength and focus in these regions, such as Huawei in China and Intelbras in Latin America. AGS competes with companies like those above in offering services with respect to their own product offerings, as well as with many value added resellers, consulting and systems integration firms and network service providers. Because the market for our products is subject to rapid technological change, as the market evolves we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete in the enterprise communications market, 19 Table of Contents but whose current business activities may bring them into competition with us in the future. In particular, as the convergence of enterprise voice and data networks becomes more widely deployed by enterprises, the business, information technology and communication applications deployed on converged networks become more integrated. We may face increased competition from current leaders in information technology infrastructure, information technology, personal and business applications and the software that connects the network infrastructure to those applications. We may also face competition from companies that seek to sell remotely hosted services or software as a service directly to the end customer. Competition from these potential market entrants may take many forms, including offering products and applications similar to those we offer as part of another product offering. In addition, these technologies continue to move from a proprietary environment to an open standards-based environment. Several of our existing competitors have, and many of our future competitors may have, greater financial, personnel, research and development and other resources, more well-established brands or reputations and broader customer bases than we do and, as a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of these competitors may have customer bases that are more geographically balanced than ours and, therefore, may be less affected by an economic downturn in a particular region. Competitors with greater resources also may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot match or do not offer. Industry consolidations may also create competitors with broader and more geographic coverage and the ability to reach enterprises through communications service providers. Existing customers of data networking companies that compete against us may be inclined to purchase enterprise communications solutions from their current data networking or software vendors rather than from us. Also, as communications and data networks converge, we may face competition from systems integrators that traditionally have been focused on data network integration. We cannot predict which competitors may enter our markets in the future, what form such competition may take or whether we will be able to respond effectively to the entry of new competitors into competition with us or the rapid evolution in technology and product development that has characterized our businesses. In addition, in order to effectively compete with any new market entrant, we may need to make additional investments in our business, use more capital resources than our business currently requires or reduce prices, any of which may materially and adversely affect our profitability. We rely on third-party providers for the manufacture, warehousing and distribution logistics associated with our products. We have outsourced substantially all of our manufacturing operations to several electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, providers. Our EMS providers produce the vast majority of products in facilities located in China, with other products produced in facilities located in Poland, Israel, Mexico, Malaysia, Taiwan, Ireland, Germany, Indonesia, the United Kingdom and the U.S. All manufacturing of our products is performed in accordance with detailed specifications and product designs furnished or approved by us and is subject to rigorous quality control standards. We periodically review our product manufacturing operations and consider changes we believe may be necessary or appropriate. Although we closely manage the transition process when manufacturing changes are required, we could experience disruption to our operations during any such transition. We also purchase certain hardware components and license certain software components from third-party original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, and resell them both under the Avaya brand and, in some cases, under the brands of the OEMs. In some cases, certain components are available only from a single source or from a limited source of suppliers. Delays or shortages associated with these components could cause significant disruption to our operations. We are dependent on our intellectual property. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights or if those rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business may be adversely affected. We believe that developing new products and technology is critical to our success. As a leader in technology and innovation in the telecommunications services, applications and services industries, we are dependent on the 20 Table of Contents maintenance of our current intellectual property rights and the establishment of new intellectual property rights. We generally protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications that we have filed or that our patents will be sufficient to protect our key technology. Although we have been granted and have acquired many patents, have obtained other intellectual property rights and continue to file new patent applications and seek additional proprietary rights, there can be no assurances made that any of our patents, patent applications or our other intellectual property or proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, our business is global and the level of protection of our proprietary technology will vary by country, particularly in countries that do not have well developed judicial systems or laws that adequately protect intellectual property rights. Any actions taken in these countries may have results that are different than if such actions were taken under the laws of the U.S. Patent litigation and other challenges to our patents and other proprietary rights are costly and unpredictable and may prevent us from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of our filings, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Competitors and others may also misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise fall into the public domain. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may be at a disadvantage to others who did not incur the substantial time and expense we incurred to create our products. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties asserting that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software infringe their intellectual property rights. There can be no assurance that the number of these notices will not increase in the future and that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. Irrespective of the merits of these claims, if a third party claimed that our proprietary or licensed systems and software infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. These matters may result in any number of outcomes for us, including entering into licensing agreements, redesigning our products to avoid infringement, being enjoined from selling products that are found to infringe, paying damages if products are found to infringe and indemnifying customers from infringement claims as part of our contractual obligations. Royalty or license agreements may be very costly and we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against us or our use of our proprietary or licensed systems or products. A successful claim of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could materially adversely affect our operating results. We have made and will likely continue to make investments to license and/or acquire the use of third-party intellectual property rights and technology as part of our strategy to manage this risk, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful. We may also be subject to additional notice, attribution and other compliance requirements to the extent we incorporate open source software into our applications. In addition, third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that a customer’s use of our products, systems or software infringes the third-party’s intellectual property rights. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to indemnify our customers for some of the costs and damages related to such an infringement claim. Any indemnification requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. For a description of certain legal proceedings regarding intellectual property, please see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our audited consolidated financial statements. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses into ours effectively, our operating results may be adversely affected. Even if we are successful, the integration of these businesses has required, and will likely continue to require, significant resources and management attention. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses, such as NES, into ours, and therefore we may not be able to realize the intended benefits from an acquisition. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions or if they fail to perform as we anticipate, our existing businesses and our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If the due diligence of the operations of these acquired businesses performed by us and by third parties on our behalf is inadequate or flawed, or if we later discover unforeseen financial or business liabilities, acquired businesses may not perform as expected. Additionally, acquisitions could result in difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products and the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. We may fail to retain employees acquired through acquisitions, which may negatively impact the integration efforts. Acquisitions could also have a negative impact on our results of operations if it is subsequently determined that goodwill or other acquired intangible assets are impaired, thus resulting in an impairment charge in a future period. Finally, acquisitions often necessitate restructurings in order to optimize the operational performance of the combined entity and to control costs and expenses. Restructurings often involve significant cash payments to employees separated from the business and are more difficult due to labor laws and required approvals when the acquired business is a company operating in multiple and/or non-U.S. jurisdictions, which may hinder completion of restructuring actions in a timely and efficient manner and delay anticipated cost savings. In particular, the integration of NES continues to require significant resources and management’s attention. We rely in part upon services provided by Nortel and its affiliates under a transition services agreement to support many of our integration activities. There can be no assurance that those parties will continue to perform those services should the economy or their businesses deteriorate prior to the termination of that agreement. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that the quality of the services received will be sufficient to facilitate the effective integration of NES. In addition, the Company is establishing processes and procedures to remove any reliance that it has on the services it receives under the transition services agreement. However, there can be no assurance that the Company can effectively eliminate those services or, where necessary, transition those services to be performed in-house or by another third party vendor in the time-frame or at the costs or using the resources currently believed by the Company to be necessary. For all the reasons set forth above, the failure to integrate acquired businesses, including NES, effectively may adversely impact Avaya’s business, results of operations or financial condition. The failure to maintain adequate security over our information systems could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on the security of our information systems, among other things, to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Information technology system failures, including a breach of our data security, could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing, among other things, delays in the fulfillment or cancellation of customer orders, disruptions in the manufacture or shipment of products, or an unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information. Additionally, if we do not maintain adequate security procedures over our information systems and our global network, we may be vulnerable to threats such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other unauthorized attempts by third parties to access, modify or delete our or our customers’ proprietary information. We maintain tools, standards, procedures and controls that address current security risks, but unauthorized users may be able to develop new techniques that will enable them to successfully circumvent our current processes and operational security practices and controls. Any such breach could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Such consequences could be exacerbated if we are unable to adequately recover critical systems following a systems failure. 22 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety, laws, regulations, costs and other liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of governmental requirements relating to employee safety and health and to environmental protection. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We are subject to certain provisions of environmental laws governing the cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination. Such provisions may impose joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and remediating releases of hazardous materials at currently or formerly owned or operated sites and at third-party waste disposal sites. In certain circumstances, this liability may also include the cost of cleaning up historical contamination, whether or not caused by us. We are currently involved in several remediations at currently or formerly owned or leased sites. We are also subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations relating to the presence of certain substances in our products and making producers of certain electrical products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. For example, the EU has adopted the RoHS and the WEEE directives. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions. Additionally, new requirements addressing the operating characteristics of our products are emerging, such as the EuP Directive, which may necessitate reengineering of some products. Moreover, some customers are now including energy-usage parameters as a selection criterion for telecommunication solutions. For example, a number of climate change regulations and initiatives are either in force or pending at the state, regional, Federal and international levels that focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. It is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. There can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, including existing, pending and future environmental laws addressing climate change, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances will not exceed any amounts reflected in our reserves or adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Integral aspects of our operations may be subject to climate change risks. We have developed a sustainability program supported by an Environmental Steering Committee (ESC), which is a cross-functional team that oversees the Avaya-wide sustainability work by providing supervision, direction, guidance, objectives and targets. We recognize that climate change is an issue of global concern. Integral aspects of our operations that may be subject to climate change risks include, but are not limited to, the following: increased regulations that have either been promulgated or may be promulgated in the future in jurisdictions in which we operate; the procurement and transport of raw materials and components used by our manufacturers and the use of those raw materials and components in the manufacturing process; manufacturing emissions; packaging and transport of finished goods; emissions and waste generated by our business operations; emissions associated with business travel (air, vehicular, fleet services); and emissions associated with business activities and emissions generated by our products. We continue to monitor those risks and will develop policies and processes designed to mitigate those risks where possible. In addition, to minimize the physical risk associated with climate change, we leverage our global Business Continuity Plan to mitigate business interruptions and to help ensure continued operations in the face of risks such as increased intensity and frequency of extreme weather events. Business Continuity Plans are tested throughout the year using various business disruption scenarios to help ensure our ability to respond to challenges, such as any significant events that may be tied to climate change. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we cannot assure you that our efforts to mitigate climate change risks will be successful or that risks associated with climate change will not have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. If we fail to retain or attract key employees, our business may be harmed. The success of our business depends on the skill, experience and dedication of our employee base. If we are unable to retain and attract sufficiently experienced and capable personnel, especially in the key areas of product development, sales, services and management, our business and financial results may suffer. For example, the loss of key employees acquired in, or assisting with the integration of, NES could negatively impact the 23 Table of Contents integration of that business and our operating and financial performance. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents among our competitors. When talented employees leave, we may have difficulty replacing them and our business may suffer. While we strive to maintain our competitiveness in the marketplace, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and attract the personnel that we need to achieve our business objectives. As our business and operations related relationships have expanded globally in the last few years, changes in economic or political conditions, as well as natural disasters, in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations and increasing amounts of our research and development activities in countries outside of the U.S. and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. For each of the fiscal years ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, we derived 45% of our revenue from sales outside the U.S. The vast majority of our contract manufacturing also takes place outside the U.S., primarily in China. Our future operating results, including our ability to import our products from, export our products to, or sell our products in various countries, could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, protectionist legislation, relationships with employees and works councils, currency regulations, health or similar issues, natural disasters and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we and our contract manufacturers and business partners currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Additional risks inherent in our global operations generally include, among other things, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries, and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights (including the increased risk of counterfeiting of our products). Our prospective effective tax rate could be adversely affected by, among others, an unfavorable geographical distribution of our earnings and losses, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. If we perform more of our operations outside the U.S., we may be exposed to increased operational and logistical risks associated with foreign operations, many of which are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, increasingly we have been shifting portions of certain of our operations to jurisdictions with lower cost structures than those available in certain of the countries in which we traditionally operate. This includes certain research and development, customer support and corporate infrastructure activities. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in expanded or new facilities. The transition of even a portion of our research and development or customer support operations to a foreign country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in delays and other disruptions to our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. To the extent that we shift any operations or functions outside of the U.S. to jurisdictions with lower cost structures, we may experience challenges in effectively managing those operations as a result of several factors, including time zone differences and regulatory, legal, employment, cultural and logistical issues. Additionally, the relocation of workforce resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our offshore operations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce the expected cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates, or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore locations where we may operate. Although some of these factors may influence our decision to establish or increase our offshore operations, there are other inherent risks beyond our control, 24 Table of Contents including issues such as political uncertainties and currency regulations as discussed above under “—As our international business has grown significantly in the last few years, changes in economic or political conditions in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition.” We are faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as companies expand their operations offshore. If the supply of such qualified personnel becomes limited due to increased competition or otherwise, it could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to foreign operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could cause our operating results to decline and result in reduced revenues. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our operating results. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our primary currency exposures are to the euro, British pound, Indian rupee and Canadian dollar. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and as the geographic mix of our business changes. From time to time we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. However, any attempts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuation risks may be unsuccessful and result in an adverse impact to our operating results. Pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities could impair our liquidity or financial condition. We sponsor non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of our U.S. employees and retirees, and postretirement benefit plans for U.S. retirees that include healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage. Certain of our non-U.S. operations also have various retirement benefit programs covering substantially all of their employees. Some of these programs are considered to be defined benefit pension plans for accounting purposes. Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”). ERISA, along with certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”), requires minimum funding contributions and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (“PBGC”) has the authority under certain circumstances to petition a court to terminate an underfunded pension plan. One of those circumstances is the occurrence of an event with respect to which the PBGC determines that the possible long-term loss of the PBGC with respect to the plan may reasonably be expected to increase unreasonably if the plan is not terminated. If our U.S. defined benefit pension plans were to be terminated, we would incur a liability to the plans or the PBGC equal to the amount by which the liabilities of the plans, calculated on a termination basis, exceed the assets of the plans, which amount would likely exceed the amount that we have estimated to be the underfunded amount as of September 30, 2010. In addition, if one or more of our U.S. pension plans were to be terminated without being fully funded on a termination basis, the PBGC could obtain a lien on our assets for the amount of our liability, which would result in an event of default under each of our credit facilities. As a result, any such liens would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including our liquidity and financing arrangements. The measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience. If future economic or demographic trends and results are different from our assumptions, then our obligations could be higher than we currently estimate. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, or if we are required or elect to fund any material portion of the liability now or in the future, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. In addition, if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be required to dispose of material assets or operations in order to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations. We 25 Table of Contents may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain any proceeds on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations then due. Please see Note 13, “Benefit Obligations,” to our audited consolidated financial statements for further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans, including funding status. We may incur liabilities as a result of our obligation to indemnify, and to share certain liabilities with, Lucent Technologies Inc. in connection with our spin-off from Lucent in September 2000. Pursuant to the Contribution and Distribution Agreement between us and Lucent, a predecessor to Alcatel-Lucent, Lucent contributed to us substantially all of the assets, liabilities and operations associated with its enterprise networking businesses and distributed all of the outstanding shares of our common stock to its stockholders. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement, among other things, provides that, in general, we will indemnify Lucent for all liabilities including certain pre-distribution tax obligations of Lucent relating to our businesses and all contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution primarily relating to our businesses or otherwise assigned to us. In addition, the Contribution and Distribution Agreement provides that certain contingent liabilities not directly identifiable with one of the parties accruing pre-distribution will be shared in the proportion of 90% by Lucent and 10% by us. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement also provides that contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to Lucent’s businesses shall be borne 90% by Lucent and 10% by us and contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to our businesses shall be borne equally by the parties. Please see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report for a description of certain matters involving Lucent for which we have assumed responsibility under the Contribution and Distribution Agreement. We cannot assure you that Lucent will not submit a claim for indemnification or cost sharing to us in connection with any future matter. In addition, our ability to assess the impact of matters for which we may have to indemnify or share the cost with Lucent is made more difficult by the fact that we do not control the defense of these matters. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 