D. Risk Factors We must continue to overcome significant competition in our targeted industries in order to gain market share and achieve our growth strategy. The market for our primary business activity ─ namely designing, manufacturing, marketing and selling telecommunications test and measurement equipment ─ is rapidly evolving and is marked by intense competition and technical innovation. Likewise, the market for our selected life sciences and industrial solutions is very competitive. We anticipate the pace of change to remain high or even accelerate for our targeted industries in the future. We might see the emergence of new competitors or the consolidation of current competitors, as the markets for telecommunications test and measurement equipment as well as for life sciences and industrial solutions might evolve in response to technical innovations and economic conditions. Achieving our key performance indicator of 20% sales growth in fiscal 2007 will largely depend on our ability to gain market share by increasing sales of current products at existing accounts, expanding into new accounts, introducing new products and product enhancements, and exploiting new market opportunities. During the past couple of years, the telecommunications test and measurement industry has witnessed consolidation. Anritsu Corporation announced the acquisition of NetTest A/S in August 2005 and JDS Uniphase Corporation (JDSU) completed its acquisition of Acterna Corporation during the same month. Agilent Technologies Inc. divested itself of its semiconductor division to refocus its efforts on test and measurement. With the exception of JDSU (which also sells optical components), these competitors are global test and measurement vendors who complement their broad range of products with telecommunications test and measurement equipment. Similarly, Spirent plc, Tektronix, Inc. and Yokagawa are global test and measurement vendors who compete against us. Other competitors, such as Digital Lightwave Inc., Fluke Networks, an operating division within Danaher Corporation, IXIA, and Sunrise Telecom Inc., compete against us in niche markets. Some competitors in both groups may have greater financial, technical and/or marketing resources than us. Consequently, they may be able to devote greater resources to the development, marketing, manufacturing, selling and support of their products in order to capture market share. Competitors also may be better positioned than us to capture market share or to acquire companies and new technologies that would potentially displace our products or render them obsolete. We cannot predict whether current or future competitors will develop or market products that offer higher performance, more features, or are more cost-effective than our current or future products. To remain competitive and achieve our growth strategy, we must increase our sales and develop cost-effective products and product enhancements that offer higher performance and more functionality, in current and new sectors, so that we can increase our market share. Our failure to do so may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. 3 Table of Contents Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar, US dollar and other currencies may adversely affect our operating results. Most of our sales are denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar (principally US dollars and Euros). However, a large portion of our operating expenses and capital expenditures are denominated in Canadian dollars. As a result, even though we manage to some extent our exposure to currency risks with forward exchange contracts and certain operating expenses denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar, we are exposed to fluctuations in the exchange rates between the Canadian dollar on one hand and the US dollar and Euro on the other. As of October 31, 2006, the Canadian dollar increased approximately 5.1% versus the US dollar and decreased 1.3% versus the Euro, compared to October 31, 2005. Any increase in the value of the Canadian dollar relative to other currencies, especially the US dollar, could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and provide strategic advantages to our competitors. One of our customers has accounted for a high percentage of our sales in the past few years, and any adverse factor affecting this customer or our relationship with this customer could cause our sales to decrease. Although our customer base has been well diversified on a historical basis, a Tier-1 carrier in the US accounted for 13.8% of our sales in fiscal 2006, 23.3% in 2005 and 13.8% in 2004. Even if this customer has a supply contract with us, it could change its purchasing practice, force us to renegotiate prices and is not obligated to purchase a specific amount of products from us or provide us with binding purchase forecasts for any period. In addition, our customers typically purchase our products under individual purchase orders and may cancel or defer purchases on short notice without significant penalties. The loss of such a customer or the reduction, delay, or cancellation of orders from this customer or other significant customers could cause our sales and, therefore, net earnings to decline. Recent signs of market stability are not necessarily indicative of long-term growth. If market conditions significantly deteriorate or if we fail to implement adequate measures on a timely basis to align our cost structure to such conditions, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Notwithstanding recent signs of market stability and generally increasing demand for our products, average selling prices may decline and revenue and profitability targets may be subject to uncertainty and variability. Any downturn in our markets or in general economic conditions,, or if we fail to adjust our cost structure accordingly, could harm our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and business. We have faced pricing pressure on our existing products and expect that this pressure will continue. If we do not control our manufacturing costs or introduce new products with higher margins, our gross margins may decrease and our operating results may be adversely affected. We continued implementing measures to protect our gross margin, which reached 55.3% of sales in fiscal 2006 compared to 54.7% in fiscal 2005, despite the negative impact of the exchange rate between US and Canadian currencies. However, increased competitiveness in the telecommunications test and measurement industry will likely result in continuing downward pressure on average selling prices, which may in turn negatively affect our gross margins. Pricing pressure can result from a number of factors such as: · Increased competition for business; · Reduced demand; · Limited number of potential customers; · Competition from companies with lower production costs, including companies operating in lower cost environments; · Introduction of new products by competitors; · Greater economies of scale for higher-volume competitors; · Large customers, who buy in high volumes, can exert substantial negotiating leverage over us; · Resale of used equipment; and · Equipment sales resulting from manufacturing and rental company bankruptcies. 4 Table of Contents In addition, gross margins may also be negatively affected by increased costs of raw materials as well as obsolescence and excess costs, product mix and under-absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. As pricing pressure will likely continue to affect our existing products, we may have to increase the number of units sold to maintain our existing sales levels. If we are unable to increase our sales levels, lower our manufacturing costs, or introduce new products with higher margins, our gross margins may decline and our operating results may suffer. Our products may have unforeseen defects that could harm our reputation, impede market acceptance of our products and negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a result of their complexity, our products may contain undetected software or hardware defects, inaccurate calibration or compatibility problems or regulatory compliance issues, particularly when they are first introduced or when new versions are released. There can be no assurance that, despite our testing, defects will not be found in new products after they have been fully deployed and operated under peak stress conditions or that customized products meet customer sign-off acceptance requirements. If we are unable to fix defects or other problems or meet custom requirements, we could experience, among other things: · Costly repairs; · Product returns or recalls; · Damage to our brand reputation; · Loss of customers, failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance; · Diversion of development and engineering resources; · Legal actions by our customers, including claims for consequential damages and loss of profits; and · Legal actions by governmental entities, including actions to impose product recalls and/or forfeitures. The occurrence of any one or more of the foregoing could seriously harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to make the necessary acquisitions needed for the development of our business or, if we do make such acquisitions, we cannot assure you that we will successfully integrate the businesses, products, technologies and personnel. In addition, such acquisitions could distract management’s attention from our day-to-day business and operations. Ultimately, the failure to make strategic acquisitions or the inability to carry out effective integrations could disrupt our overall business and harm our financial condition. We intend to carefully seek businesses that meet stringent criteria, products and technologies that are complementary to ours or that will expand our markets. There can be no assurance that we will ultimately make any such acquisition. Our competitors may be in a better position to acquire the same businesses, products and technologies that we wish to acquire. In addition, our fluctuating stock price or our cash position at the time of an acquisition may affect our ability to complete such an acquisition. We have made strategic acquisitions in the past and we intend to continue making acquisitions of businesses, products and technologies as part of our overall growth strategy. In the event of any future acquisition, we could: · Issue shares that would dilute individual shareholder percentage ownership; · Incur debt; · Assume liabilities and commitments; · Incur significant expenses related to amortization of additional intangible assets; · Incur significant impairment losses of goodwill and intangible assets related to such acquisitions; and · Incur losses from operations. 5 Table of Contents These acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: · Risk of not realizing the expected benefits or synergies of such acquisitions; · Problems integrating the acquired operations, technologies, products and personnel; · Risks associated with the transfer of acquired know-how and technology; · Unanticipated costs or liabilities; · Diversion of management’s attention from our core business; · Adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; · Risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and · Potential loss of key employees, particularly those of acquired organizations. Our quarterly revenues and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations and you should not rely on them as an indication of our future performance. Our sales and operating results have fluctuated from quarter to quarter in the past and significant fluctuations may occur in the future. In addition, our sales and operating results generally depend on the volume and timing of the orders we receive from customers as well as our ability to fulfill received orders. Our operating expenses, which include selling and administrative, research and development, and amortization expenses, are relatively fixed in the short term. If we sell fewer products than anticipated, if there is a delay in the launch of new products, or if prices for our products decline, we may not be able to quickly reduce our operating expenses in response to lower sales. Factors that could affect the amount and timing of our sales, and cause quarterly fluctuations in our revenue and operating results include: · Length of the product sales cycle for certain products, especially those that are higher priced and more complex; · Timing of product launches and market acceptance of new products for us as well as our competitors; · Our ability to sustain product volumes and high levels of quality across all product lines; · Timing of shipments for large orders; · Effect of seasonality on sales and bookings; and · Losing key accounts and not successfully developing new ones. Our sales and operating results could also be affected by the following factors, some of which we have little or no control over: · Fluctuating demand for telecommunications test and measurement equipment as well as life sciences and industrial solutions; · Changes in the capital spending and operating budgets of our customers, which may cause seasonal or other fluctuations in product mix, volume, timing and number of orders we receive from our customers; · Order cancellations or rescheduled delivery dates; · Pricing changes by our competitors or suppliers; · Customer bankruptcies and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; · Restructuring and impairment charges; and · General economic conditions. In addition, we may in the future choose to reduce prices, increase spending, or modify our product portfolio in response to actions by competitors or as an effort to pursue new market opportunities. These actions may also adversely affect our business and operating results and may cause our quarterly results to be lower than the results of previous quarters. Due to these factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. 6 Table of Contents If we are unable to adapt to current and future changes in technology or if we are unable to introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis, our products may become obsolete, which could prevent us from achieving our growth strategy and adversely affect our operating results. The industries that we target are characterized by rapidly evolving technology and industry standards that result in frequent new product introductions. Any failure by us to anticipate or respond to new technological developments, customer requirements or evolving standards could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The development of proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks and requires substantial expenditures and lead-time. The success of our new product introductions will depend on several factors, including our ability to: · Properly identify and anticipate customer needs; · Innovate and develop new products; · Gain timely market acceptance for new products; · Manufacture and deliver our new products on time and in sufficient volume; · Price our products competitively; · Continue investing in our research and development programs; and · Anticipate competitors’ announcements of new products. Failure to do the above could be exploited by our competitors. If we lose market share as a result of lapses in our product development, our business would suffer. If we fail to adapt appropriately to the challenges associated with operating internationally, the expected growth of our business may be impeded and our operating results may be affected. For the fiscal year ended August 31, 2006, customers outside of the United States and Canada accounted for 46.8% of our sales. Our international sales will be limited if we cannot establish and maintain relationships with international distributors, set up additional foreign operations, expand international sales channel management, hire additional personnel, develop relationships with international service providers and operate adequate after-sales support internationally. Even if we are able to successfully continue our international operations, we may not be able to maintain or increase international market demand for our products. Our international operations are subject to a number of risks, including: · Challenges in staffing and managing foreign operations due to the limited number of qualified candidates, employment laws and practices in foreign countries, any of which could increase the cost and reduce the efficiency of operating in foreign countries; · Our ability to comply with import/export, environmental and other trade compliance regulations of the countries in which we do business, together with unexpected changes in such regulations; · Adhering to laws, regulations and contractual obligations relating to customer contracts in various countries; · Difficulties in establishing and enforcing our intellectual property rights; · Maintaining a competitive list of distributors for indirect sales; · Tariffs and other trade barriers; · Economic instability in foreign markets; · Wars, acts of terrorism and political unrest; · Language and cultural barriers; · Integration of foreign operations; · Currency fluctuations; · Potential foreign and domestic tax consequences; · Technology standards that differ from those on which our products are based, which could require expensive redesign and retention of personnel familiar with those standards; · Longer accounts receivable payment cycles and possible difficulties in collecting payments which may increase our operating costs and hurt our financial performance; and · Certification requirements. 7 Table of Contents Any of these factors could harm our international operations and negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The recurrence of weakness in these economies or of weakness in other foreign economies could have a significant negative effect on our future operating results. We may make misjudgments in our strategic planning that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We devise an annual strategic business plan, which is prepared by management and approved by our Board of Directors. This strategic plan, reviewed by management on a regular basis, is mainly based on market research and analysis related to future market trends and demands. In our strategic plans, we have made and will continue to make judgments based on our analysis of future market trends and requirements. These decisions may involve substantial investments in the development of new product lines, diversification of our business on a geographic basis, as well as expansion into new market segments — either organically or through acquisitions. We may make misjudgments in our strategic planning that could have material adverse effects on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If customers fail to meet their financial commitments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers may experience, cash flow problems. Consequently, we may have customers who delay payments or may not be able to meet their financial commitments to us. Furthermore, they may not order as many products from us as originally forecasted or they may cancel their orders outright. The failure of customers to order products would result in decreased revenues for us. We attempt to reduce the possibility of large outstanding bills remaining unpaid by carrying out credit checks on customers and by having a diversified customer base. However, there is no assurance that such measures will reduce our exposure to customer credit risks. If customers fail to meet their financial commitments to us, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As our customers consolidate, they may reduce or halt purchases of our products, which would harm our sales and operating results. Consolidation in the telecommunications industry could reduce the number of customers to which our products are sold. Some of our customers have been subject to consolidation and could obtain products from a vendor other than us, or demand more favorable terms and conditions from us, which would harm our sales and operating results. In addition, some customers may merge with or acquire our competitors and discontinue their relationships with us. If we fail to predict our supply requirements accurately, we will have excess inventory or insufficient inventory, either of which could cause us to incur additional costs and/or experience manufacturing delays. We provide non-binding forecasts of our requirements to some of our suppliers up to six months prior to scheduled delivery of products to our customers. If we overestimate our forecasted requirements, we may have excess inventory, which could harm our relationships with our suppliers due to reduced future orders, increase our costs and require inventory write-offs. If we underestimate our requirements, we may have an inadequate inventory of parts, which could interrupt manufacturing of our products and result in shipment delays. In addition, lead times for materials and parts that we order may be long and depend on factors such as the procedures of, or supply terms with, a specific supplier and demand for each part at a given time. 8 Table of Contents We depend on a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers for some key components and materials in our products, which makes us susceptible to supply shortages or price fluctuations that could adversely affect our operating results. We depend on a limited number of suppliers for some of the parts used to manufacture our products for which alternative sources may not be readily available. In addition, all our orders are placed through individual purchase orders and, therefore, our suppliers may stop supplying parts to us at any time. The reliance on a single source or limited number of suppliers could result in increased costs, delivery problems and reduced control over product pricing and quality. Financial difficulties of suppliers could also affect our ability to obtain necessary parts in a timely manner. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these parts could significantly harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and cause us to lose sales. Furthermore, the process of qualifying a new manufacturer for complex parts, designed to our specifications, such as our optical and mechanical parts, is lengthy and would consume a substantial amount of time of our technical personnel and management. If we were required to change a supplier in a short period of time, our business would be disrupted. In addition, we may be unsuccessful in identifying a new supplier capable of meeting and willing to meet our needs on terms that we would find acceptable. Consolidation involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives available to us and increase the cost of parts, which would make our products less competitive and result in lower margins. Recently enacted regulatory changes caused us to incur increased costs. Recently enacted changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, increased our expenses as we devoted resources to respond to these new requirements. In particular, we incurred additional general administrative expenses to become compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires management to report on internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with new rules could also result in continued diversion of management’s time and attention, which could prove to be disruptive to normal business operations. Furthermore, the impact of these changes could make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our Board of Directors or as executive officers, which could harm our business. We require employees and management resources who are knowledgeable about the specialized nature of our business. If we are unable to attract and retain sufficient numbers of highly skilled technical, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel, our operations and financial results will suffer. Due to the specialized nature of our business, we are highly dependent on the continued service of and on the ability to attract qualified engineering, sales, marketing, senior management and other personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain such qualified personnel, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We must also provide significant training for our employee base due to the highly specialized nature of telecommunications test and measurement as well as life sciences and industrial technologies. Our current personnel may be inadequate and we may fail to assimilate and train new employees. Highly skilled employees with the education and training that we require - especially employees with significant experience and expertise, international business development, product management, sales, engineering and operation - may be difficult to find. Once trained, our employees may also be hired by our competitors or leave the organization. 9 Table of Contents Our intellectual property and proprietary technology are important to the continued success of our business. Our failure to protect this proprietary technology may significantly impair our competitive position. Our success and ability to compete depend to a significant extent on our proprietary technology, since that is how we attempt to keep others from using the innovations that are central to our existing and future products. We currently hold 27 actively-maintained granted patents from the U.S. (including one “design” patent), eight from Canada, two from Germany, two from the United Kingdom, two from France, and one from China. In addition, EXFO has 15 US patent applications in process, 14 Canadian patents applications in process, two from China, one from Germany and three Patent Cooperation Treaty patent applications pending. We also rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions and license agreements to protect our proprietary technology. We may have to engage in litigation in order to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights, or to determine the validity or scope of the proprietary rights of others. Such litigation can be time-consuming and expensive, regardless of whether we win or lose. Because it is critical to our success that we are able to prevent competitors from copying our innovations, we intend to continue to seek patent protection or maintain trade secrets for our technologies. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive and we cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, or that, even if patents are issued, they will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or any commercial advantage to us. We also rely on trade secret protection for our technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, distributors and third parties. However, these agreements may be breached or otherwise not effective and we may not have adequate remedies for any breach or shortfall of these agreements. In any case, others may come to know about our trade secrets through a variety of methods. In addition, the laws of some territories in which we sell our products may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of Canada and the United States. Our intellectual property rights, particularly our existing or future patents, may be invalidated, circumvented, challenged or required to be licensed to others. Furthermore, others may develop technologies that are similar or superior to our technology, duplicate or reverse engineer our technology, or design around the patents owned or licensed by us. We cannot be sure that the steps that we take to protect our technology will prevent misappropriation or infringement. If we fail to protect our technology so that others may copy or use it, we will be less able to differentiate our products and our sales will decline. Others may claim that our products infringe upon their intellectual property rights, or they may infringe our intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Litigation regarding intellectual property rights is common in the technology industry and, for this reason we expect that third-party infringement claims involving technologies may increase. If an infringement claim is filed against us, we may be prevented from using some of our technologies and may incur significant costs to resolve the claim. Conversely, we may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves and our customers against infringement claims or in bringing infringement claims against others. Litigation could also adversely affect sales of the challenged product or technology and divert the efforts of our management and technical personnel. In the event of an infringement claim, we may be required to obtain one or more licenses from third parties. We cannot assure you that we, or our customers, could obtain necessary licenses from third parties at a reasonable cost or at all. If we fail to obtain a license where one is required, we could incur substantial liabilities and be forced to suspend the marketing of the challenged products. 10 Table of Contents Our insurance may not be sufficient to cover all potential liability. A successful claim exceeding our policy limits will reduce our cash position, increase our expenses and have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our products are designed to help network service providers, cable operators and manufacturers of optical networks and components ensure network reliability. We also leverage our core telecom technologies for life sciences and industrial applications. The failure of our products to perform to client expectations could give rise to product liability and warranty claims. We carry insurance for product liability and take accounting reserves for warranty claims that we consider adequate in view of industry practice. In addition, we may face other types of claims by third parties in relation to the conduct of our business; a successful claim against us for an amount exceeding our policy limits would force us to use our own resources to pay the claim, which could result in a reduction of our cash available for other uses, increase our expenses and have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may become involved in costly and time-consuming litigation that may substantially increase our costs and harm our business. We may from time to time become involved in various lawsuits and legal proceedings. For example, we are a defendant in a putative securities class action filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York involving approximately 300 other issuing companies. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and an adverse result in these or other matters that may arise from time to time could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Any litigation to which we are subject could require significant involvement of our senior management and may divert management attention from our business and operations. If we suffer loss to our factories or facilities, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our factories and facilities are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, vandalism, terrorism or other natural or man-made disasters. We do not have redundant multiple site capacity and if any of our facilities or factories were to experience a catastrophic loss, it would disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses, thereby harming our results of operation. Unexpected declines in our research and development and other tax credits and grants may have an adverse effect on our business. Our historical operating results reflect substantial benefits from programs sponsored by federal and provincial governments for the support of research and development activities, as well as in relation to other activities. For example, research and development tax credits and grants represented 21.0% of our gross research and development expenses for the year ended August 31, 2006. If unexpected changes in the laws or government policies terminate or adversely modify the Canadian and Quebec government programs, under which we receive the majority of our research and development and other tax credits and grants, or if we unexpectedly become unable to participate in or take advantage of these programs, then our net research and development and other expenses will materially increase or we may decrease our research and development activities. In addition, to the extent that we increase our research and development activities outside Canada or Quebec, which could result from, among other things, future acquisitions, the increased activities may not be eligible for these programs. If we were required to decrease our research and development activities, or were unable to benefit from other tax credits and grants, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 11 Table of Contents Our current principal stockholder has effective control over our business. As of November 1, 2006, Germain Lamonde, our Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer, held 92.3% of the voting rights in our stock. By virtue of such stock ownership, Mr. Lamonde has effective control over all matters submitted to our stockholders, including the election of our Directors, and exercises significant control over our policies and affairs. Such concentration of voting power could have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control or other business combinations that might otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. If we complete major acquisitions of complementary businesses, products or technologies, we may need additional capital, and may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all, which could limit our ability to grow and could increase our costs. Our future liquidity and capital requirements are difficult to predict because they depend on numerous factors, including the success of our existing and new product offerings as well as competing technological and market developments. As a result, we may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from our operations to meet additional working capital requirements, support additional capital expenditures or take advantage of acquisition opportunities. Accordingly, we may need to raise additional capital in the future. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions and our operations performance. These factors may render the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive for us. If we raise additional funds by selling equity securities, the relative ownership of our existing investors could be diluted or the new investors could obtain terms more favorable than previous investors. If we raise funds through debt financing, we could incur significant borrowing costs. If we are unable to raise additional funds when needed or at terms satisfactory to us, our ability to operate and grow our business could be impeded. As at August 31, 2006, we had $111.3 million in cash and short-term investments. Our business and operations would suffer in the event of a failure of our information technology infrastructure. We rely upon the capacity, efficiency and security of our information technology hardware and software infrastructures as well as our ability to expand and update these infrastructures in response to our evolving needs. Any failure to manage, expand or update our information technology infrastructures or any failure in the operation of this infrastructure could harm our business. Our information systems are vulnerable to damages from computer viruses, natural disasters, unauthorized access and other similar disruptions. Any system failure, accident or security breach could result in disruptions to our operations. To the extent that any disruption or security breach results in a loss or damage to our data, or inappropriate disclosure of our confidential information, it could harm our business. In addition, these events may force us to devote more money and resources in order to protect ourselves against damages caused by these disruptions or security breaches in the future. 12 Table of Contents Item 