RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this document, including the matters contained under the caption “Forward-Looking Statements” you should carefully read the matters set forth below. The Company believes that each of these matters could materially affect our business. We recognize that most of these factors are beyond our ability to control, and therefore, also to predict an outcome. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report in evaluating us and our business. Reductions in prices for communications services in India and worldwide have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years as a result of increased competition. Average international call tariffs have declined from approximately 48 (US$ 0.94) per minute in 2002, prior to the termination of our monopoly on the provision of international long distance (ILD) services, to approximately 5 (US$ 0.10) per minute in 2011. The pricing war among service providers in India was carried over to the international calling market with carriers dropping call prices to international markets to as low as 2 (US$ 0.04) per minute in 2012. Market pricing for ILD telecommunications services are expected to decline therefore the prices for our communications services in India and worldwide will be impacted. We expect that the prices for our communications services in India and worldwide will continue to decrease: • as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks; • as our traffic volumes increase because many of our customer agreements provide for volume-based pricing or contain other provisions for decreases in prices; • as a result of technological advances; and • as a result of synergies realized through strategic acquisitions by us and our competitors. Even though the decline in tariffs has resulted in traffic volume growth, they have, and are expected to continue to, materially and adversely affect our revenues. Revenues from our ILD business and related products increased to 65,261 million (US$ 1,282 million) in fiscal 2012 from 61,282 million in fiscal 2011. Intensifying competition in the Indian telecommunications sector may continue to adversely affect our business. We have faced a number of new competitors to our ILD business, particularly since the Government of India (GoI) relaxed the licensing conditions and reduced the entry fees for ILD and national long distance (NLD) services in January 2006 (from 250 million and 1 billion, respectively, to 25 million and 25 million, respectively). There are also an increasing number of players offering various forms of data products, a business in which we have historically been a market leader. As a result of a recall of the Carrier Access Code (CAC) and Carrier Pre-selection (CPS) implementation in India by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI), many of our end customers do not have the right to choose to use our services, even if we offer the most competitive rates and best quality. Until 2002, we had a monopoly on the provision of ILD services, and, until 2004, we were the exclusive provider of ILD services for Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) and Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (MTNL), but since then we have had to compete for business from the access providers in the open market. Currently, access providers (including competitors such as BSNL, MTNL, Bharti, Vodafone and Reliance), which own or control the access telephone networks in India (through which all international calls that we carry that either originate or terminate in India must pass) may choose not to use our ILD or NLD services. A customer choice regime that was expected to be completed by December 2003 was not implemented due to technical and other reasons. In an order in 2009, the TRAI recalled the directive requiring all service providers to implement CAC/CPS; instead the TRAI recommended the use of calling cards as the customer choice mechanism, which the Department of Telecommunications (DoT) has accepted. Now long distance operators can sell directly to end-customers calling cards for domestic and ILD services. However, there is still uncertainty around the interconnection terms and conditions. We must continue to increase the volume of voice, Internet, data and video transmissions on our network both in India and worldwide in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network, particularly since certain elements of our costs (such as repair and maintenance costs) are fixed. 5 Table of Contents Illegal international telephony operators have adversely affected our call volumes. Illegal operators in India offer cheaper services since they do not pay license fees, taxes or Interconnection Usage Charges (IUC) or any other regulatory fees. These illegal operators have captured a part of the incoming ILD traffic into India. Telecommunications carriers that we do business with could suffer from decreasing margins and financial distress, which may negatively impact our business. Several telecommunications carriers that we do business with have in the recent past, suffered from reduced profit margins and other significant financial pressures. Some of these companies have been acquired and are undergoing restructurings of their businesses. There is no assurance that we will continue to derive business from these carriers. Further, if any of the major carriers that we do business with encounters financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to recover amounts owed to us. Our mobile global roaming business may be adversely affected by changing technologies. Our wireless mobile global roaming business provides roaming services for Global Systems for Mobile (GSM), Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network (iDEN), Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS, 3G) and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio (ESMR) networks around the world. With increasing pressure on roaming margins, regulatory caps on inter-operator tariffs (IOTs) in some geographies and increased competition, we expect strong price pressure in our international signaling transport and conversion businesses. Though this price erosion will be partially offset by the continued volume growth in emerging markets, a shift towards more sophisticated signaling and roaming outsourcing solutions targeted at Tier-1 mobile operators and groups will be an imperative to sustain revenues and margins. We are also engaging new segments like hub providers and Application-to-Person (A2P) service providers as both customers and channel partners to drive additional revenue growth. The advent of next generation Long Term Evolution (LTE) standards also presents new opportunities for signaling and roaming connectivity and interoperability. We have already embarked on network modernization to collaborate with early-adopters on LTE/DIAMETER signaling interconnectivity and service enablement. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially and adversely affect our business. We have operations and investments outside of India and the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; • difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries exceeding those in India and the U.S.; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions on foreign earnings; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, and penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in Indian and U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Failure to complete development, testing and the introduction of new services, including managed services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new services so that we can compete for new customers and in new segments of the communications business. Sometimes the introduction of new services requires the successful upgrade or development of new technology, which may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new managed services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Our technical infrastructure is vulnerable to damage, interruptions or failures which may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenues and harm to our reputation. Our technical infrastructure is vulnerable to damage or interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods, storms, fires, power outages, war, riots, intentional misdeeds and other similar events. In particular, a major part of our international traffic is routed through undersea cable systems as well as through cable systems between different countries. These cables are prone to damage, including cable cuts. Any serious damage to major cables or simultaneous multiple cable failures could seriously disrupt traffic, which might lead to losses in revenue and adversely affect our reputation. 6 Table of Contents In addition, natural information technology system failures (hardware or software), human error or computer viruses may affect the quality of our services and cause temporary service interruptions. More rarely, software problems are hidden in vendors equipment, undetectable through regular commissioning testing, but appear when specific traffic loading conditions are reached on the network which can severely impact several pieces of equipment simultaneously. These types of events could result in customer dissatisfaction and reduced traffic and revenues. Our infrastructure may also be vulnerable to cybersecurity risks, which may result in service interruptions, gaining of unauthorized access, loss, theft or corruption of data, and theft of intellectual property or sensitive information, any of which could disrupt or have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business. Such negative consequences could include remedial costs, increased cybersecurity costs, lost revenues, litigation, reputational damage and regulatory penalties. Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses. We have made significant acquisitions and investments in recent years, such as an increased equity stake in Neotel, and will continue to explore the possibility of future acquisitions and investments as our business needs require. The integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • higher integration costs than anticipated; • failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings; • regulatory restrictions imposing a constraint on optimal designs for integration of Operations Support Systems—Business Support Systems (OSS-BSS Systems); • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems) technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we become the victim of fraud or theft of services. The industry in which we operate has incurred losses in the last several years due to fraud. Although we have implemented various measures in order to control losses relating to fraudulent practices, we may not succeed in effectively controlling fraud when operating in the international or domestic Indian telecommunications markets. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot fulfill our commitments under significant contracts. We have entered into a number of significant contracts with certain of our Global Voice Solutions (GVS) and Global Data and Managed Services (GDMS) customers. Failure to meet our commitments under these contracts could result in financial losses and damage our reputation. Our five largest customers collectively accounted for 16% of our revenues in fiscal 2012 and if, due to any reason, we lose any of our major customers or they terminate their respective agreements with our Company, it could negatively impact our revenues as well as our profitability and cash generation ability. Our profitability may be adversely affected if certain revenue share disputes are decided against our Company. We are required to pay a certain percentage of our adjusted gross revenue (AGR) to the telecom licensor in India under the terms of our license. We are involved with the licensor in a dispute resolution process under Indian telecom regulations about the definition of AGR. If the matters in dispute are decided against us, we will be required to pay a substantially higher amount than we presently do under the license. See “Item 4-License Fees and Tariffs”. If certain tax claims made by the Indian tax authorities against us are upheld, our financial condition would be adversely impacted. Over past fiscal years, the Company has made certain tax holiday and expense claims based on our understanding of the tax laws as reinforced by legal precedent and legal advice received from external tax counsel. The Indian Tax Authority has not accepted our claims and in a few instances has levied penalties against the Company. We have challenged the position taken by the Indian Tax Authority, which are at various stages of adjudication. If all of these disputes are decided against us, it could have an adverse financial implication of 23,755 million. For significant disputes see “Item 8-Legal Proceedings”. 7 Table of Contents We may not receive additional compensation from the GoI for the early termination of our monopoly on international telephony services. On April 1, 2002, the GoI allowed private operators to start offering ILD services, thereby terminating our monopoly on offering such services two years ahead of schedule. The GoI compensated us with a package of benefits. The GoI had given an assurance prior to the termination of our monopoly that it would consider additional compensation if it found this necessary following a detailed review. However, prior to the termination of our monopoly, the GoI announced that it viewed the package of benefits that it gave to us as the full and final settlement of all claims arising out of the early termination of our ILD monopoly. We have been pursuing the GoI to consider providing us with additional compensation and in 2005 the Company filed a suit for additional compensation in the Honorable Bombay High Court. On July 7, 2010, the Honorable Bombay High Court ruled that it did not have jurisdiction to entertain this suit in view of the provisions of the TRAI Act, 1997. The Company filed an appeal in the Honorable Bombay High Court in October 2010. This appeal is still pending. There can be no assurance that our claim will be successful or that we will receive any additional compensation from the GoI, or if we do receive compensation, as to the amount, nature or timing of such compensation. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the GoI, which could adversely affect the operation of our business and prevent us from entering into transactions that are in the best interests of our shareholders. We must obtain telecommunications licenses from DoT to provide some of our services. DoT retains the right to modify the terms and conditions of our licenses at any time if in its opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunication sector. DoT is also empowered to revoke a license granted by it for any breach of the license conditions. A change in certain significant terms of any of the licenses, such as their duration, the range of services permitted or the scope of exclusivity, if any or revocation of our licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. In May 2011, DoT amended the license conditions to address security related concerns and making it the Company’s responsibility to maintain the security of our networks. It has also required the Company to take certain security measures prescribed in the revised license conditions. The Company has implemented a number of security measures to comply with the amended DoT license conditions. Some of these measures include use of a security incident and event monitoring tool to detect and monitor intrusions in the core network, as well as access logging to core network devices. The Company periodically engages a CERT-IN empanelled auditor to carry out an audit of the India Core Network, and where applicable complies with equipment induction standards such as Common Criteria. If the Company breaches the newly amended conditions, it could be liable for a maximum penalty of 500 million, and could be subject to criminal charges. Despite having taken various steps to comply with the amended license conditions, the Company could still be penalized for non-compliance, which could adversely affect the revenues and profitability of the Company. We must also annually obtain various radio spectrum operating licenses from the Wireless Planning and Co-ordination Wing of the Ministry of Communications (WPC). The non-renewal or modification of these licenses, or punitive action by the GoI for continuing these services without renewal of the licenses, could adversely affect us. In addition, approval of the TRAI is required for all our new pricing initiatives and product launches. Any disputes between us and the GoI regarding the terms of our telecommunications licenses, as well as any dispute between us and the other service providers in India, is required to be adjudicated by the Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (TDSAT). Failure to follow TDSAT orders may lead to the imposition of fines and other punitive actions. Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we do business could adversely affect us. We have interests in a large number of geographic areas throughout the world and must comply with an extensive range of requirements that are meant to regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of telecommunications networks and services. These requirements are likely to increase with our overseas expansion. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws that apply to the telecommunications industry. We cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which we intend to operate will issue or renew licenses we need on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, some of the jurisdictions where we provide services have little, if any, written regulations governing our operations. The written regulations and guidelines that do exist in a jurisdiction may not specifically address our operations. It is possible that one or more governmental agencies will disagree with our interpretation of existing laws or regulations and assert that our operations are not in compliance with those laws or regulations. In that event, it is possible that the governmental agency might initiate an enforcement action or impose restrictions on our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. 8 Table of Contents We have incurred debt, which to a certain extent could restrict our growth and place us at a competitive disadvantage. We incurred additional debt in fiscal 2012 primarily to finance our capital expenditures and investments. As of March 31, 2012, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was 115,447 million (US$ 2,269 million) as opposed to 68,827 million as on March 31, 2011. If need arises in the future, we may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs. We have floating interest rate loans which are exposed to market interest rate fluctuations. While a portion of our floating rate loans are hedged by interest rate swaps, an increase in the benchmark interest rates could increase the interest cost of the our floating interest rate loans. Our inability to manage the interest cost effectively could have an adverse impact on cash flow and profits. The consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our debt include: • a limitation on our ability to obtain additional substantial debt financing; • accelerated maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness in the event we are unable to meet or restructure the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements; • the allocation of a portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, such as capital expenditures, investments or dividends; • limitations on our ability to exploit lucrative large opportunities that arise in the market and are important for our growth and; • competitive disadvantage if our competitors do not have as much debt as us. A termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delays and costs. We are dependent on key third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components of our network. We are also dependent on key suppliers to repair and maintain our extensive undersea and other cable assets. If any of these relationships is terminated or a key supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment, we might be unable to obtain suitable alternative arrangements quickly and consequently could experience significant delays and additional costs. Similarly, vendors bringing equipment to end-of-life status and cutting support on such equipment without proper notification can cause risks to our network. Changes in a large network can take more time than the notification time given. The same can be caused by vendors going out of business or being bought with the new owner not supporting all types of equipment from the acquired company. If our vendors fail to obtain the approval of the Telecom Engineering Center (TEC) for the switching equipment that they provide to us, the growth of our interconnection capacities with domestic voice carriers may be limited. In India, we are required to install “TEC” type approved switching equipment in the network for interconnection with domestic voice operators. Vendors are required to obtain approval from the TEC of the switching equipment and then regularly renew. Failure to renew the approval by a vendor in a timely manner could restrict us from further augmenting the interconnection capacities with domestic voice carriers. This could lead to reduced service quality to our customers, customer dissatisfaction and hence reduced traffic and revenues. Our dependence on third party Passive Infrastructure Providers for the collocation of wireless equipment might impact service levels and cause additional costs. We are dependent on third party passive infrastructure providers for collocating our wireless equipment. Any inability of the passive infrastructure providers to comply with service level agreements that provide for site access and uptime might adversely affect our service levels to our customers. We might be unable to obtain suitable alternative arrangements quickly and consequently could experience significant delays and additional costs. Changes in Royalty charges and license fees for spectrum allocated to the Company by DoT might increase the cost of deployment of wireless access in licensed bands. The Company is currently using spectrum licensed by DoT for operating wireless access for its customers. Any increase in the royalty charges and license fees by DoT will increase the cost of operation which will have an adverse impact on the cost of providing wireless access to our customers. 9 Table of Contents We have made, and in the future might make, substantial capital investments in new telecommunications projects which may expose us to liquidity and execution risks. We have made substantial additional investments in new telecommunications projects, including in connection with technology upgrades and our continuing geographic expansion. We spent approximately 18,894 million (US$ 371.27 million) on capital expenditures in fiscal 2012 and we expect our capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 to be approximately 23,131 million (US$ 454.53 million). Our capital expenditures may increase in the future because of cost overruns or delays in our projects or as we strive to offer new services, improve our capabilities and remain competitive. Uncertainty in the international financial markets may adversely affect our ability to obtain capital when needed or on terms that are attractive. Although there is less uncertainty in the international financial markets, market sentiments have not reverted to pre-crisis levels. Even if we are able to make all of our planned capital expenditures, telecommunications technology evolves rapidly so there can be no assurance that any of our investments in new technology will have a positive impact on our financial results. The absence of a robust business continuity plan could affect our business adversely. Our operations are dependent on various information technology systems and applications which may not be adequately supported by a robust business continuity plan, which could seriously impact our business in the event of a disaster of any nature. It is increasingly costly for us to comply with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) rules and regulations and Indian stock exchange listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours because they sometimes lack specificity and may be subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. Our efforts to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. Our business may be adversely affected by any slowdown in economic growth in India, the United States or other countries where we conduct business or by a slowdown in the growth of the IT sector. The growth of telecommunications traffic is related to general economic growth and slowdowns in the economy could result in slower growth rates in telecommunications traffic. Economic slowdowns in India and the U.S. pose the greatest risk for us because approximately 24.84% and 13.89% of our operating revenues were from India and the United States, respectively, during fiscal 2012. Commencing in 2007 and continuing into 2012, the U.S. and European securities markets have experienced significant deterioration and volatility and the liquidity of U.S. and European credit markets have substantially tightened, which has had negative repercussions on the global economy. These developments could continue to present risks for an extended period of time for us, including a potential slowdown in our sales to customers in the financial sector. Slowdowns in the IT sector might adversely affect our revenues as well, because the IT sector is a major contributor to our telephony and leased channel revenues. A substantial portion of our assets are located in India and our equity is listed on the Indian stock exchanges. Accordingly, our performance and the market price and liquidity of our equity may be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, government policy, taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive governments in India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the GoI and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators remains significant in ways that affect all Indian companies, including us. Political instability could result in changes in policy, delay reforms of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our shares, and consequently our ADSs. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect the Indian markets where the Shares trade and adversely affect the worldwide financial markets. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence and make travel more difficult. 10 Table of Contents Also, as a result of such events, India, the United States or certain other countries where our Company has or may have major business interests may enter into armed conflict with other countries. The consequences of any potential armed conflicts are unpredictable. In addition, India has from time to time experienced unrest relating to religious and political differences within India’s population, as well as with its neighboring country Pakistan. Any increase in regional or international hostilities, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could have a significant adverse impact on international and Indian financial markets or economic conditions or on the GoI’s policy, thereby disrupting communications. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on our business, or the market price of our shares and ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities markets may affect the price or liquidity of our shares and ADSs. The Indian securities markets are smaller in terms of trading volume and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities. It is generally perceived that there is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other market participants than in securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have experienced trading interruptions in the past because of regulatory interventions and operational issues. If these interruptions were to recur, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including our shares and ADSs. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, it could affect the market price and liquidity of our shares and ADSs. We and you may be subject to potential losses arising out of risks associated with the conversion rates between the functional currency of the Company and other foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Indian Rupee and the U.S. Dollar will affect the U.S. Dollar equivalent of the Indian Rupee price of equity shares on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, the price of our ADSs in the United States, as well as the U.S. Dollar value of the proceeds a holder would receive upon the sale in India of any equity shares withdrawn from the Depository under the Depository Agreement will be impacted. Such fluctuations will also affect the Dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Rupees received on the shares represented by our ADSs and the Dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Rupees of a sale of the Shares in India. Fluctuations in the exchange rates affect the respective functional currency amount of foreign currency settlements received by the Company from and paid by the Company to foreign telecommunication administrations, other service providers, and payments to vendors for imported equipment and technology and due to foreign currency borrowings. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are organized under the laws of India. All of the Company’s directors and many of its officers are Indian nationals and all or a significant portion of the assets of all of the directors and officers and a substantial portion of our assets are located in India. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on us or such directors or officers outside India or to enforce judgments against them obtained from courts outside India, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Dealings with telecommunication service providers in countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the U.S. and other countries to avoid doing business with us. The United States, and from time to time other countries, have laws that may prohibit or restrict their citizens from engaging in certain business activities in certain countries, or that otherwise impose economic sanctions on such countries. International bodies such as the United Nations may also impose sanctions on certain countries from time to time. The United States currently administers economic sanctions and embargoes that target geographic regions and governments. Comprehensive sanctions programs include Burma (Myanmar), Cuba, Iran, Sudan and Syria. Other non-comprehensive programs include the Western Balkans, Belarus, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Iraq, Liberia (Former Regime of Charles Taylor), persons undermining the sovereignty of Lebanon or its democratic processes and institutions, Libya, North Korea, Somalia and Zimbabwe as well as other programs targeting individuals and entities located around the world. As a major provider of international telecommunications services to customers in India, where lawful the Company enters into interconnection agreements with communications providers around the world including agreements with providers located in certain of such countries to facilitate the carrying of telecommunications traffic to and from such countries, and we may do so in the future. 11 Table of Contents We are substantially owned by some of the Tata group companies and the GoI who have significant rights in relation to the election of our board of directors and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders, including holders of our ADSs. As of March 31, 2012, 50.03% of our outstanding equity was held by Panatone Finvest Limited and other Tata group companies, and 26.12% was held by the GoI. Panatone Finvest Limited, certain other Tata group companies and the GoI are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement (the “SHA”) pursuant to which they have agreed on certain matters with respect to our governance and operation, including the composition and election of our board of directors. As a result of their equity holdings and the SHA, Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI together control all matters submitted to shareholders, including the election of directors. They also have significant control over the matters that come up for consideration at the meetings of our board of directors. There can be no assurance that the interests of Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI will not differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including the holders of ADSs. Future sales by the GoI of our shares may adversely affect our share price. As of March 31, 2012, the GoI’s stake in our Company was 26.12%. If or when the GoI decides to reduce its stake in our Company, the manner in which the GoI decides to reduce its stake and the selection of the buyer of such stake, may have an adverse impact on the price of our shares. We may face potential conflicts of interest relating to our principal shareholder. Our principal shareholder is part of the Tata group of companies which has diverse business activities and interests. The Tata group or their affiliates could engage in activities, or seek opportunities, that are or could be in competition with our activities or interests. In particular, the Tata group has interests in other companies in the telecommunications sector, such as Tata Teleservices Limited. Tata Teleservices Limited (in which the Company has an equity stake) and its subsidiary Tata Teleservices (Maharashtra) Limited. (together called TTL) hold access licenses in almost all of the telecom markets in India. The Company and TTL have been working together to leverage each other’s strengths. However, these efforts may not provide the desired results. Disagreements between the Tata group of companies and the GoI concerning our activities could result in a deadlock, which could adversely affect our business. Panatone Finvest Limited, certain other Tata group companies and the GoI have agreed in the SHA that we will not undertake certain corporate actions unless at least one director nominated by each of them (in the case of a board meeting) or at least one authorized representative nominated by each of them (in the case of a shareholder meeting) consents to such action. Panatone Finvest Limited, the other Tata group companies and the GoI have also agreed not to transfer their shares in our Company without giving the other certain rights of first refusal and tag-along rights. In the event that Panatone Finvest Limited, the other Tata group companies and the GoI fail to agree on any such matter, their disagreement could result in us not taking advantage of a potential opportunity. Further, any disagreement in relation to raising funds through non-debt sources could result in an inability to implement our capital expenditure plans efficiently. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected if the funding required for our plans is delayed. The Company is dependent on its promoter shareholders, i.e., Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI, agreeing to the proposals for raising non-debt funds such as subscription to the new shares or monetization of certain assets. This dependency arises in view of the provisions of the SHA and the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company. If the promoter shareholders do not agree to such proposals for any reason, the Company may not be able to implement its capital expenditure plans efficiently and, as a result, its operations and profitability may be adversely affected. The demerger of surplus land held by us may not be completed on satisfactory terms. Under the terms of the SHA, Panatone Finvest Limited agreed to cause us to demerge certain land that we own but were not actively using into a separate company. No time period was specified in the agreement for such demerger. The Company, Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI are currently discussing various options in connection with the demerger. Until such time as the demerger takes place, the lands are under our possession and upkeep. We cannot predict if the demerger will take place or the extent to which expenditure that we might have to incur for the security, upkeep and maintenance of the surplus land will continue. Further, we may have to bear significant costs, including taxes and duties, relating to the demerger, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, the demerger and the legal and valuation process relating to the demerger will have on our financial condition. Holders of ADSs have no voting rights. Investors in ADSs have no voting rights, unlike holders of Shares. It is contemplated that the Depository will exercise its right to vote the shares represented by our ADSs as directed by our board of directors. Investors may withdraw the shares underlying our ADSs and seek to vote the shares obtained from the withdrawal. However, for foreign investors, this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. 12 Table of Contents There is a limited market for our ADSs. Even though the ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is no assurance that any trading market for the ADSs will be sustained. Subsequent to the open/tender offer by Panatone Finvest Limited, the number of shares represented by ADSs declined from approximately 60 million (representing 21% of the issued and outstanding shares) as of March 31, 2002 to approximately 17.56 million (representing 6.16% of our issued and outstanding shares) as of March 31, 2012. This may affect the liquidity of the market for the ADSs and the price at which they trade. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause the Shares to trade at a discount or premium relative to the market price of the ADSs. Although the GoI permits two-way fungibility of ADSs, this is still subject to sectoral caps under regulations governing foreign direct investment (FDI) in India, compliance with the provisions of the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depository Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993, periodic guidelines issued by the GoI and registration requirements in the United States. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause our shares to trade at a discount or premium to our ADSs. An investor in the ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional Shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obliged to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision on whether to do so will depend on the costs and potential benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the Depository, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that the Depository would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services. If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services is held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. To the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. Impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in various jurisdictions worldwide may not prevent misappropriation, and our failure to protect our proprietary rights could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 13 Table of Contents A third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise appropriate our proprietary network information. Our agreements with employees and others who participate in development activities could be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success in the future will depend to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We expect to experience significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. Our business is managed by a team of key executive officers and their immediate teams. Loss of any of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. As a global company we are exposed to currency and exchange rate fluctuations which may affect our results of operations. The functional currency of Tata Communications Limited and its Indian subsidiaries is the Indian Rupee, the functional currency of Tata Communications International Pte Limited (TCIPL) and its subsidiaries and VSNL SNOSPV Pte Ltd. (VSNL SNOSPV) is the U.S. Dollar, the functional currency of SEPCO Communications Pty. Ltd (SEPCO) and its subsidiaries is the ZAR and that of all other subsidiaries is the currency in the country of incorporation. We incur network and other expenses and sell our products/services in various countries outside India. Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and credit facilities in a few jurisdictions. Hence, we are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Adverse changes in exchange rates may have a material adverse effect on our revenues, other income and cost of services sold, gross margin and net income, and hence may have an impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Also we expect that a majority of our transactions, both revenue and a significant portion of our expenses, including personnel costs, as well as capital and operating expenditures, will continue to be in foreign currencies, including the U.S. Dollar, the British Pound, the ZAR, the Euro and the Canadian Dollar, for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on transactions denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations in the future as well. We use derivative financial instruments such as foreign exchange forward and option contracts to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on accounts receivable and payables and loans to subsidiaries denominated in foreign currencies. These derivative financial instruments may not be able to offset in full the foreign exchange losses, if any. Additionally, our hedging activities may also result in losses due to volatility in foreign currency markets and the timing of hedging activity. These fluctuations may have an impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. The uncertainty in the global financial markets primarily caused by the debt crisis in Europe and the volatility of the U.S. markets continue to have negative repercussions on the global economy and, as a result, could present new challenges for our business. Commencing in 2007 and trickling into 2012, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the European, U.S. and global financial markets. These developments include a general slowing of economic growth both in the U.S. and globally, substantial volatility in equity securities markets, volatility and tightening of liquidity in credit markets and the fear of debt defaults led by Greece. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets and businesses of our Company may be affected, these developments could continue to present risks for an extended period of time for our company, including a potential slowdown in our sales to customers in the financial sector. Moreover, the potential debt crisis in Europe could adversely impact our business in the region. The global economy may slow down further and as a result our profitability may be adversely impacted by an increase in bad debts. The Company sells to a large number of customers, across many countries, ranging from government backed agencies and large wholesalers to enterprises. An economic slowdown may impact the ability of some of these customers to continue to trade, which in turn may result in losses from writing these debts off. Although risk management processes are in place to manage this risk, and provisions are established for debts that may not be recoverable we cannot be certain that there will not be further losses above those already provided for. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected by decisions taken by revenue authorities in various jurisdictions in which we operate which are beyond our control. The integrated nature of our worldwide operations can produce conflicting claims from revenue authorities as to the profits to be taxed in individual territories. The resolution of these disputes can result in a reallocation of profits between jurisdictions and an increase or decrease in related tax costs, and has the potential to affect our cash flows and earnings per share. Claims, regardless of their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert management attention, and may adversely affect our reputation. 14 Table of Contents The majority of the jurisdictions in which we operate have double tax treaties with other foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to ensure that our revenues and capital gains do not incur a double tax charge. If any of these double tax treaties should be withdrawn or amended, especially in a territory where a member of the Company is involved in a taxation dispute with a tax authority in relation to cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or amendment could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, as could a negative outcome of a tax dispute or failure of tax authorities to agree through competent authority proceedings. Emerging markets are an important part of our business plans. As we continue to develop our business in emerging markets, we may face challenges unique to emerging markets that could adversely impact our operations and / or profitability. The development of our business in emerging markets such as South Africa may be a critical factor in determining our future ability to sustain or increase the level of our global revenues. Challenges that arise in relation to the development of the business in emerging markets include, but are not limited to, more volatile economic conditions, competition from companies that are already present in the market, the need to identify correctly and leverage appropriate opportunities for sales and marketing, poor protection of intellectual property, inadequate protection against crime (including counterfeiting, corruption and fraud), inadvertent breaches of local law/regulation and not being able to recruit sufficient personnel with appropriate skills and experience. The failure to exploit potential opportunities appropriately in emerging markets may have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Acquisitions and strategic alliances formed as part of our externalization strategy may be unsuccessful. We seek acquisitions of complementary businesses, technology licensing arrangements, strategic alliances and collaborations to expand our product portfolio and geographical presence as part of our business strategy. Examples of such recent strategic acquisitions, arrangements, collaborations and alliances include: • increase of equity stake in Neotel; • launch of a Virtual Proxy managed security service in alliance with Zscaler; • strategic sourcing agreement with Videotron to route 100% of Videotron’s international voice traffic through our network; • acquisition of British Telecom’s Mosaic business to accelerate our media and entertainment capability; • collaboration with BIX, Etisalat, Mobily, Nawras and Qtel to construct, operate and maintain the TGN-Gulf undersea cable system which connects Mumbai with Bahrain, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates; • collaboration with Mobily to construct, operate and maintain a branch on the TGN-Eurasia undersea cable system to connect Saudi Arabia with Mumbai and Marseille, France; • Telepresence inter-connection agreements with British Telecom and Telefonica to enable inter-carrier Telepresence sessions between each company’s respective customers; • collaboration with Safaricom to enable it to offer the first public Telepresence suite in East Africa; • collaboration with Starwood Hotels, American Express Travel, Carlson Wagonlit Travel and Sabre to offer public Telepresence room services to corporate customers; and • acquisition of BitGravity Inc. with respect to development of CDN technology. We may not complete these types of transactions or collaborative projects in a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, or at all, and may not realize the expected benefits of any acquisition, licensing arrangement or strategic alliance. Other companies may also compete with us for these opportunities. The success of such current and future arrangements is largely dependent on the technology and other intellectual property we acquire and the resources, efforts and skills of our partners. Disputes and difficulties in such relationships may arise, often due to conflicting priorities or conflicts of interest which may erode or eliminate the benefits of these alliances if, for example, the agreements are terminated; sufficient financial or other resources are not made available to the alliances; intellectual property is negatively impacted; obligations are not performed as expected; controls and commercial limitations are imposed on the marketing and promotion of products to be co-developed; or challenges in achieving the commercial success of the product are encountered during the development process. Also, under many of our strategic alliances, we make milestone payments well in advance of commissioning a cable system, with no assurance that we will ever recoup those payments. If these types of transactions are unsuccessful, this may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, integration of an acquired business could involve incurring significant debt and unknown or contingent liabilities, as well as have a negative effect on our reported results of operations from acquisition-related charges, amortization of expenses related to intangibles and charges for impairment of long-term assets. These effects, individually or in combination, could cause a deterioration of our credit rating, increased borrowing costs and interest expenses. 15 Table of Contents Our increasing reliance on outsourced personnel to develop and maintain our internal IT infrastructure could, if not properly managed, result in a disruption of critical internal services and, as a result, adversely affect our operations. We are dependent on effective information technology (IT) systems. These systems support key business functions such as our R&D and billing capabilities, and are an important means of internal communication and communication with customers and suppliers. Any significant disruption of these IT systems or the failure of new IT systems to integrate with existing IT systems could materially and adversely affect our operations. We also have a number of outsourcing arrangements in respect of critical processes, services and the support of our IT infrastructure and our increasing dependency on these outsource providers could impact our ability to deliver on business targets and to maintain our compliance status and reputation. Risk associated with outsource providers is mitigated by our contracting approach which enables us to monitor closely any degradation in services and enact staged remedies. The Company is engaged in continuous productivity initiatives aimed at making the Company more profitable and its operations more efficient. Failure of one or all of these initiatives or mismanagement could have a material adverse effect on our operations and/or profitability. We are implementing various productivity initiatives and restructuring programs, with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business. However, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits are based on preliminary estimates and the actual savings may vary significantly. In particular, these cost reduction measures are based on current conditions and do not take into account any future changes to the communications industry or our operations, including new business developments, wage and price increases and other factors. If inappropriately managed the expected value of the initiative could be lost through low employee morale and hence productivity, increased absence levels and industrial action. Our failure to implement successfully these planned cost reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations processes (including consultation and engagement, talent management and recruitment and retention), or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation. Our operations and/or profitability could be adversely affected by the increase in environmental legislation worldwide which may result in an increase in our cost of compliance. We integrate core values of environmental protection into our business strategy to add value to the business, manage risk and enhance our reputation. We are subject to laws and regulations concerning the environment, safety matters and regulation of product safety in the countries where we sell our products and/or services or otherwise operate our business. These requirements include regulation of the handling, transportation, use and disposal of materials used in our business, including the discharge of pollutants into the environment. In the normal course of our business, we are exposed to risks relating to (i) possible releases of hazardous substances (such as fuel from our storage tanks or acid from battery accumulators) into the environment which could cause environmental or property damage or personal injuries, and which could require remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater and (ii) possible damage due to the removal of certain decommissioned submarine fiber optic cables which could require remediation and/or rectification. Under certain laws, we may be required to remediate contamination at third party sites, or at certain of our properties regardless of whether the contamination was caused by us, or by previous occupants of the property. An increasing amount of intangible assets, goodwill and other long lived assets on our books may lead to significant impairment charges in the future. The amount of goodwill, IRU and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheet amounted to approximately 21% of the Company’s total assets as of March 31, 2012. Although no significant impairments are currently anticipated, any future diminution in the enterprise value of the reporting business unit may lead to material impairment charges. We regularly review our long-lived intangible and tangible assets, including identifiable intangible assets, investments in associated companies and goodwill, for impairment. Goodwill is subject to impairment review at least annually. Other long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually or when there is an indication that impairment may have occurred. Any significant impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. For a detailed discussion of how we determine whether an impairment has occurred, what factors could result in an impairment and the increasing impact of impairment charges on our results of operations, see “Item 5 Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies—Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and Valuation of Goodwill” and “Item 18 Financial Statements.” 16 Table of Contents 