Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Related to Our Business As of December 31, 2010, we have gross capitalized costs totaling $69.2 million as proved and unproved oil and gas properties and gas processing plant whereas we have generated revenues of only $43 million since January 1, 2003 and revenues of only $3.1 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Since inception, our activities have been primarily related to acquiring and exploring leasehold interests in oil and natural gas properties in Texas, California, Alaska, Canada, Indonesia and Australia. We incur substantial acquisition and exploration costs and overhead expenses in our operations, and until 2003, excluding minor interest and dividend income, our only significant cash inflows were the recovery of capital invested in projects through sale or other divestitures of interests in oil and gas prospects to industry partners. As a result, we have sustained an accumulated deficit through December 31, 2010 of $43.6 million. Our production activities were commenced in May 2003. Since May 2003, over 98% of our revenue has been generated from natural gas sales derived from wells in the Madisonville Field in Texas. It is possible that in the future we will be unable to continue to generat e revenues from our sales of natural gas from our Madisonville Field wells because our proved reserves decline as reserves are produced from the wells. The drilling of exploratory oil and natural gas wells is highly speculative and often unproductive. Our participation in future drilling activities to explore, develop and exploit the properties in which we have an interest, or in which we may acquire interests, may be unsuccessful, may fail to generate positive cash flow, and may not enable us to maintain profitability in the future. We may be unable to integrate successfully the operations of the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant with our operations and we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant. We formerly contracted with Madisonville Gas Processing, LP, (“MGP”) which owned and operated gathering pipelines and a dedicated natural gas treatment plant (which we refer to as the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant), to treat impurities in the natural gas generated by our Madisonville Project. Effective December 31, 2008, we acquired the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant from MGP through our indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, Madisonville Midstream LLC. We plan to complete the expansion of the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant’s treatment capacity from 18 MMcf/d to 68 MMcf/d. Operations in the additional facilities were suspended by MGP in December 2007 in order to deal with the presence of diamondoids in the gas stream produced from the Rodessa Formation. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accomplish the expansion and achieve a full treatment capac ity of 68 MMcf/d. 9 Table of Contents Even if we are able to successfully complete the expansion of the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant from 18 MMcf/d to 68 MMcf/d, third parties may seek access to the plant through regulatory proceedings, which could limit our use of the Plant and disrupt our production operations. Third parties have, and may in the future, seek access to the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant through regulatory proceedings, which could restrict our access to the Plant, disrupt our production operations and negatively impact our revenues. An example of such a proceeding is the complaint filed by Crimson Exploration Inc. (“Crimson”) with the Texas Railroad Commission described under “Properties — Description of the Properties — Texas — The Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities.” On August 9, 2006, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an order requiring MGP to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant. Since Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the Plant, our ability to treat our own natural gas will be reduced to the extent of Crims on’s usage. Crimson is not currently utilizing any of the Plant’s capacity. Crimson’s usage could increase in the future. Substantially all of our revenues have been generated from natural gas sales derived from wells in the Madisonville Field, and 100% of our natural gas generated from the Madisonville Field wells is treated at the Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant, which is 100% indirectly owned by the Company. If our ability to treat natural gas at the Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant is limited for any reason, including but not limited to increased demands by third parties, our revenues may be adversely affected. All of our current revenues are generated by our interest in the Madisonville Project. Delays or interruptions of the Madisonville Project natural gas drilling and production operations including, but not limited to, events beyond our control or the failure of third parties on which we rely to provide key services, could negatively impact our revenues. All of our natural gas revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were derived from the Madisonville Project. In connection with that project, we have contracted with Gateway Processing Company, (“Gateway”) which operates a sales pipeline for natural gas. The failure of Gateway to perform its contractual obligations to us could impose delays or interruptions in our production operations and prevent us from generating revenues. In addition, events which are beyond our control, or that of Gateway, could affect our production operations. Such events include, but are not limited to: · events referred to as force majeure, such as an act of God, act of a public enemy, war, blockade, public riot, lightning, fire, storm, flood, explosion and any other causes whether of the kind enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of Gateway; · the inability to secure raw materials or equipment; · transportation accidents; and · labor disputes and equipment failures. We do not own all of the land on which our pipelines and facilities are located, and we are therefore subject to the possibility of not being able to retain necessary land use and associated increased costs. We have the right to operate our pipelines on land owned by third parties for specified periods of time. Our loss of these rights, through our inability to renew rights-of-way contracts, leases or otherwise, could result in the suspension of our operations, or increased costs related to continuing operations elsewhere, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If third-party pipelines and other facilities interconnected to our natural gas pipelines and processing facilities become partially or fully unavailable to transport natural gas, our revenues could be adversely affected. We depend upon third party pipelines and other facilities to provide delivery options from the Madisonville Midstream Gas Treatment Plant to our customers. If any of these third party pipelines become unavailable to transport the natural gas produced at the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant, or if the gas quality specifications for these pipelines or facilities change, we would be required to find alternate means to transport our natural gas out of the Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant, which could increase our costs, reduce the revenues we might obtain from the sale of our natural gas or reduce our ability to process natural gas at the Plant. 10 Table of Contents 100% of our revenue is derived from sales to a single customer. The loss of this customer could have a material adverse impact on our oil and gas revenues. 100% of our natural gas sales and revenues for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were derived from the Madisonville Project. During 2010, 100% of our revenues have been derived from sales to one customer, Luminant Energy Company, LLC. The loss of, or material nonpayment by this customer could impact the price we receive for our gas sold due to lessened competition. The loss of, or material nonpayment by the customer could result in a loss of revenue. Our customer may be subject to their own operating risks which could increase the risk that they could default on their obligation to us. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. The volume of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced from our properties unless we are able to acquire or develop new reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. For example, as of December 31, 2010 we have capitalized costs of $69.2 million as proved and unproved oil and gas properties and gas processing plant. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. Even if we are able to raise capital to develop or acquire additional properties, no assurance can be given that our future exploitation and development drilling activities will result in the discovery of any reserves. Our exploration and development drilling activities may not be commercially successful. The drilling of exploratory oil and natural gas wells is expensive, highly speculative and often unproductive. Exploration for oil and natural gas on unproven prospects is expensive, highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. Reserves are dependent on our ability to successfully complete drilling activity on proven prospects. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations; · subsurface conditions or formations encountered during the drilling of wells, whether natural or mechanical, including but not limited to blowout, igneous rock, salt, saltwater flow, loss of circulation, loss of hole, abnormal pressures, or any other impenetrable substance or adverse condition, which renders further drilling of a well impossible or impractical; · equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs, the delivery of equipment, and availability of qualified manpower. Our evaluations of the oil and gas prospects of our properties may be wrong. With the exception of the Madisonville Project, the properties in which we have an interest are prospects in which the presence of oil and natural gas reserves in commercial quantities has not been established. Any decision to engage in exploratory drilling or other activities on any of these properties will be dependent in part on the evaluation of data compiled by petroleum engineers and geologists and obtained through geophysical testing and geological analysis. Reservoir engineering, geophysics and geology are not exact sciences and the results of studies and tests used to make such evaluations are sometimes inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. As such, there is no certain way to know in advance whether any of our prospects will yield oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. Further, it is possible that we will participate in the drilling of more dry holes than productive wells or that all or substantially all of the wells drilled will be dry holes. The drilling of dry holes on prospects in which we have an interest could adversely affect their values and our decision to undertake further exploration and development drilling of such prospects. It is not certain or predictable whether, and no assurance can be made that, the wells drilled on the properties in which we have an interest will be productive or, if productive, that we will recover all or any part of our investment in the properties. In summary, our participation in future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure will negatively impact our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial 11 Table of Contents condition. Our natural gas sales and revenues were $3,054,255 and $4,077,355 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Future revenues could decline from those levels if our future drilling efforts are not successful. Furthermore, as of December 31, 2010 we have net capitalized costs totaling approximately $30 million as proved and unproved oil and gas properties and gas processing plant. Should our future drilling activities be unsuccessful, we may then be required to record an impairment charge equal to a portion of, or all, of the capitalized costs resulting in an immediate adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our business may be harmed by failures of third party operators on which we rely. Our ability to manage and mitigate the various risks associated with certain of our exploration and operations in Alaska, Alberta, Canada, and Indonesia is limited since we rely on third parties to operate our projects. We are a non-operating interest owner in our Alaskan, Canadian and Indonesian properties. With respect to our interests in Alaska, Canada and Indonesia, we have entered into agreements with third party operators for the conduct and supervision of drilling, completion and production operations. In the event that commercial quantities of oil and natural gas are discovered on one of our properties, the success of the oil and natural gas operations on that property depends in large measure on whether the operator of the property properly performs its obligations. The failure of such operators and their contractors to perform their services in a proper manner could result in materially adverse conseq uences to the owners of interests in that particular property, including us. Our percentage share of oil and gas revenues from our Indonesian property is diminished by the terms of our production sharing contract in the Bengara Block. C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the Bengara Block. We have a 12% interest in C-G Bengara. C-G Bengara is subject to a production sharing contract, which means generally that C-G Bengara is entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery.” Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara’s production share will be reduced to approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We are entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s reduced share of any such production. See the discussion under “Properties- Indonesia — Terms of Participation in the Bengara Block” for more information concerning the production sharing contract. Our working interest in properties, and our ability to realize any profits from such properties, will be diminished to the extent that we enter into farm-out arrangements with unaffiliated third parties. We have previously entered into, and may in the future enter into, farm-out arrangements with third parties willing to drill natural gas and oil wells on leaseholds in which we originally acquired working interests, in exchange for our assignment of part or all of our leasehold interests. As a consequence of these arrangements, our retained interests in properties which are subject to farm-out arrangements have been or may be diminished. Our opportunity to realize revenues and profits from properties which are successfully developed under farm-out arrangements will be diminished to the extent of our reduced interests. Competition with other oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling companies for viable oil and natural gas properties may limit our success. It is likely that in seeking future property acquisitions, we will compete with companies which have substantially greater financial and management resources. Our competition comes primarily from three sources: (1) those competitors that are seeking oil and gas fields for expansion, further drilling, or increased production through improved engineering techniques; (2) income-seeking entities purchasing a predictable stream of earnings based upon historic production from fields being acquired; and (3) junior companies seeking exploration opportunities in unknown, unproven territories. Our competitors may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to conduct efficient operations, evaluate and select suitable properties, implement advanced technologies and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. 12 Table of Contents Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and that of our engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices and expenditures for future development drilling and exploration acti vities, and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development drilling and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development drilling expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. Competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost and our limited financial resources may limit our ability to implement such technologies at the same rate as our competitors. The oil and gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. Other oil and gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at all. One or more of the technologies currently utilized by us or implemented in the future may become obsolete. We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. Our ability to pursue our business plan may be restricted by our access to additional financing. Until such time as the properties in which we own interests are generating sufficient cash flow to fund planned capital expenditures, we will be required to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional securities or otherwise sell or farm-out interests in our oil and natural gas properties to third parties. If and when the properties in which we own interests become productive and have adequate reserves, we may borrow funds to finance our future oil and natural gas operations and exploratory and development drilling activities. We may not be able to raise additional funds in the future from any source or, if such additional funds are made available to us, we may not be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us. To the extent such funds are not available from any of those sources, our operations and activities will be limited to those operations and activities we can affor d with the funds then available to us. Our larger competitors, by reason of their size and relative financial strength, may be more easily able to access capital markets than us. The volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial results and ability to raise additional capital. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent on prevailing prices for both oil and natural gas. Decreases in natural gas prices will decrease revenues and cash flows from the Madisonville Project and our other producing properties, if any, and decreases in oil and natural gas prices could deter potential investors from investing in our company and generally impede our ability to raise additional financing to fund our exploration and development drilling activities. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, pol itical conditions in the Middle East and other regions, internal and political decisions of OPEC and other oil and natural gas producing nations to decrease or increase production of crude oil, domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas, consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign government regulations and taxation, transportation costs, the price and availability of alternative fuels, the impact of energy conservation efforts and overall economic conditions. Risks associated with recent economic trends have adversely affected, and could further adversely affect our financial performance. The global financial markets have been experiencing extreme volatility in the past year, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. Concurrently, we have experienced a global recession. We believe these conditions have adversely impacted our financial position as of December 31, 2010 and our liquidity for the twelve months ended December 31, 2010. Our financial condition and performance could be further negatively impacted if either of these conditions continues to exist for a sustained period of time, or 13 Table of Contents if there is further deterioration in financial markets and major economies. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and abroad. We are subject to a number of operational risks beyond our control against which we may not have, or be able to obtain insurance. Our operations are subject to the many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, and producing and transporting, oil and natural gas, including among other risks: · blowouts, fires, craterings, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, pipelines, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; · damage to pipelines, facilities and properties caused by hurricanes, tornados, floods and other natural disasters; · personal injuries or death due to accidents, human error or acts of God; · unavailability of materials and equipment to drill and complete or re-complete wells; unfavorable weather conditions; engineering and construction delays; · fluctuations in product markets and prices; proximity and capacity of pipeline, and trucking or termination facilities to our oil and natural gas reserves; hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; environmental regulations and requirements; · accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids into the environment, remediation and clean-up costs; and · political instability and civil unrest, insurrections or disruptions in foreign countries in which some of our interests are located. If one or more of these events occurs, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, or we could lose properties in which we have capitalized as proved and unproved oil and gas properties and gas processing plant as of December 31, 2010. A loss not covered by insurance could result in substantial expenses to us. We do not insure fully against all business risks either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are prohibitive. We are not insured against all environmental accidents that might occur which may include toxic tort claims. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, if we fail to recover all anticipated insurance proceeds for significant accidents or events for which we are insured, or if we fail to rebuild facilities damaged by such accidents or events, our operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain of our insurance policies have increased substantially, and could escalate further. For example, following Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, insurance premiu ms, deductibles and co-insurance requirements increased substantially, and terms generally are less favorable than terms that could be obtained prior to such hurricanes. In some instances, certain insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. A loss not fully covered by insurance could result in expenses to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulations that can change from time to time, compliance with which are costly and could negatively impact our production, operations and financial results. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive government regulations in the countries in which we operate. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. Historically, our costs of complying with these regulations have not exceeded $100,000 per year. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effects on our operations. Future laws, or existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted or changed in the future, could result in increased operating costs, fines and liabilities, in amounts which are unknown at this time, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of 14 Table of Contents operations and financial condition. Our industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation that may limit our operations and negatively impact our production. Extensive national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions affect nearly all of our operations. Environmental laws to which we are subject in the U.S. include, but are not limited to, (1) the Clean Air Act and comparable state laws that impose obligations related to air emissions, (2) the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA), and comparable state laws that impose requirements for the handling, storage, treatment or disposal of solid and hazardous waste from our facilities, (3) the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) and comparable state laws that regulate the cleanup of hazardous substances that may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or at locations to which our hazardous substances have been transported for disp osal, and (4) the Clean Water Act, and comparable state laws that regulate discharges of wastewater from our facilities to state and federal waters and (5) CEQA, the California Environmental Quality Act, which is a statute that requires state and local agencies to identify the significant environmental impacts of their actions and to avoid and mitigate these impacts, if feasible. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations or newly adopted laws or regulations may trigger a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the assessment of monetary penalties, the imposition of remedial requirements, and the issuance of orders enjoining future operations or imposing additional compliance requirements on such operations. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and analogous state laws, impose strict, joint and several liability for costs required to clean up and restore sites where hazardous substances or hydrocarbons have been disposed or otherwise released. 60; Moreover, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the release of hazardous substances, hydrocarbons or other waste products into the environment. Environmental legislation may require that we: · acquire permits before commencing drilling; · restrict spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with our operations; · limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; · take reclamation measures to prevent pollution from former operations; · take remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and remedying contaminated soil and groundwater; · take remedial measures with respect to property designated as a contaminated site. There is inherent risk of incurring environmental costs and liabilities in connection with our operations due to our handling of natural gas and other petroleum products, air emissions and water discharges related to our operations, and historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. The costs of any of these liabilities are presently unknown but could be significant. We may not be able to recover all or any of these costs from insurance. We are not presently aware of any environmental liabilities or able to predict the ultimate cost of liabilities not yet recognized. We have not established a separate reserve fund for the purpose of funding any possible future environmental liability. As a result, we may not be able to satisfy these obligations, if they occur. Any such costs incurred will be funded out of our cash flow from operations. If we are unable to fully fund the cost of remedying an environmental obligation, we might be required to suspend operations or enter into interim compliance measures pending satisfaction of the liability, which could have an adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have recorded an asset requirement obligation in connection with the estimated future costs to plug certain wells at our Madisonville Project in Texas upon abandonment totaling $71,510 as of December 31, 2010. The effects of future environmental legislation on our business is unknown but could be substantial. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Changes in, or enforcement of, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of our production activities, or a material increase in the costs of production, development drilling or exploration, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects. In addition, many countries, as well as several states in the United States have agreed to regulate emissions of “greenhouse gases.” Methane, a primary component of natural gas, and carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning natural gas, are greenhouse gases. Regulation of greenhouse gases could adversely impact some of our operations and demand for products in the future. 15 Table of Contents Potential regulations regarding climate change could alter the way we conduct our business. Governments around the world are beginning to address climate change matters. This may result in new environmental regulations that may unfavorably impact us, our suppliers and our customers. The cost of meeting these requirements may have an adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Should we fail to comply with all applicable FERC administered statutes, rules, regulations and orders, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines. Under the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, or FERC, has authority to impose penalties for violations of the Natural Gas Act, up to $1 million per day for each violation and disgorgement of profits associated with any violation. FERC has recently proposed and adopted regulations that may subject our facilities to reporting and posting requirements. Additional rules and legislation pertaining to these and other matters may be considered or adopted by FERC from time to time. Failure to comply with FERC regulations could subject us to civil penalties. We may incur significant costs and liabilities as a result of pipeline integrity management program testing and any related pipeline repair or preventative or remedial measures. The United States Department of Transportation, or DOT, has adopted regulations requiring pipeline operators to develop integrity management programs for transportation pipelines located where a leak or rupture could do the most harm in “high consequence areas.” The regulations require operators to: · perform ongoing assessments of pipeline integrity; · identify and characterize applicable threats to pipeline segments that could impact a high consequence area; · improve data collection, integration and analysis; · repair and remediate the pipeline as necessary; and · implement preventive and mitigating actions. Political and/or economic conditions in Indonesia, Canada or the United States could change in manners that negatively affect our operations and prospects in those countries. Our business activities in Indonesia, Canada and the United States are subject to political and economic risks, including: loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of unforeseen events like expropriation, nationalization, war, terrorist attacks and insurrection; increases in import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs, taxes and governmental royalties; renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities; changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; laws and policies affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and the possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdictio n of courts in the United States. Terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our oil and natural gas operations, especially overseas. To date, our operations have not been disrupted by terrorist activity. It is uncertain how terrorist activity will affect us in the future, or what steps, if any, the Indonesian, Canadian or American government may take in response to terrorist activities. The attack on the New York World Trade Center in 2001 and the subsequent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq and continued political unrest in the Middle East increase the likelihood that U.S. citizens and U.S. owned interests may be targeted by terrorist groups operating both in the United States and in foreign countries, especially in Indonesia. 16 Table of Contents We could lose our entire Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”), if BP Migas ascertains we have not discovered commercially producible hydrocarbons. It is possible that BP Migas could terminate our entire Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”) if it is determined that the hydrocarbons we have discovered are not in commercially producible quantities. Our Indonesian PSC requires us and our partners to submit to and receive approval from BP Migas for a “Plan of Development” by specified dates in order to maintain our oil and natural gas rights. See “Properties—Description of the Properties—Indonesia.” If we do not establish commerciality and receive an approved Plan of Development for the PSC, or successfully renegotiate the terms, all or part of our contract may be terminated. If this contract is terminated, we would also lose all of our investment in that overseas prospect. If we forfeit our interest in the contract area, it will be necessary to record an impairment write-down equal to the net capitalized cost s recorded for the area forfeited. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of future operations in future periods. If approval of a Plan of Development is not obtained and if further deferrals of such obligations are not secured, we will need to record an impairment charge equal to the amount of costs capitalized which were approximately $587,000 as of December 31, 2010, and we may lose all of our rights in the Bengara Block. We may not be able to sell our natural gas production in Indonesia, limiting our ability to obtain a return on our investment there. Our Indonesian operations lack a local market for natural gas, and if we produce natural gas in Indonesia, it will most likely have to be transported to an area where there is a demand. If no market for natural gas develops locally, we may incur costs for transportation. If we are not able to sell our natural gas production at a commercially acceptable price or at all, we may not be able to obtain a return on our investment in our Indonesian property. We could lose our ownership interests in our properties due to a title defect of which we are not presently aware. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination, if any, is conducted at the time properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations are first acquired. Before starting drilling operations, a more thorough title examination is usually conducted and curative work is performed on known significant title defects. We typically depend upon title opinions prepared at the request of the operator of the property to be drilled. The existence of a title defect on one or more of the properties in which we have an interest could render it worthless and could result in a large expense to our business. Industry standard forms of operating agreements usually provide that the operator of an oil and natural gas property is not to be monetarily liable for loss or impairment of title. The operating agreements to which we are a party provide that, in the event of a monetary loss arising fr om title failure, the loss shall be borne by all parties in proportion to their interest owned. Our acquisition activities are subject to uncertainties and may not be successful or provide a return to us on our investments. We have grown primarily through acquisitions and intend to continue acquiring undeveloped oil and gas properties. Although we perform a review of the properties proposed to be acquired, such reviews are subject to uncertainties. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Ordinarily, management review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties; however, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems; nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections are not always performed on every well, and potential problems, such as mechanical integrity of equipment and environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. We are dependent upon our key officers and employees and our inability to retain and attract key personnel could significantly hinder our growth strategy and cause our business to fail. While no assurances can be given that our current management resources will enable us to succeed as planned, a loss of one or more of our current directors, officers or key employees could severely and negatively impact our operations and delay or preclude us from achieving our business objectives. Stuart Doshi and David Creel, two members of our senior management team, have a combined experience of approximately 80 years in the oil and gas industry. We could suffer the loss of key individuals for one reason or another at any time in the future. There is no guarantee that we could attract or locate other individuals with similar skills or experience to carry out our business objectives. We maintain “key man” insurance with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, Stuart Doshi. Some of our directors may become subject to conflicts of interest which could impair their abilities to act in our best interest. Nick DeMare, one of our directors, is a director, officer and/or significant shareholder of other natural resource companies and David Anderson, another one of our directors, is a director and officer of Dundee Securities Corporation, an investment banking firm that was the lead underwriter of our public offering of common stock in Canada and concurrent previous private placement of 17 Table of Contents common shares with qualified institutional buyers in the U.S. Their association with these other companies in the oil and gas business may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. For example, they could be presented with business opportunities in their capacities as our directors, which they could, in turn, offer to the other companies for whom they also serve as directors, rather than to us, whose interests might be competitive with ours. Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity to us; however, their interests in the other companies may affect their judgment and cause such directors to act in a manner that is not necessarily in our best interests. Our directors and officers hold significant positions in our shares and their interests may not always be aligned with those of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2010 our directors and officers beneficially own approximately 12% of our outstanding common stock. This shareholding level will allow the directors, officers and certain beneficial owners to have a significant degree of influence on matters that are required to be approved by shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant transactions. The short-term interests of our directors, officers and certain beneficial owners may not always be aligned with the long-term interests of our public shareholders, and vice versa. Because our directors, officers and certain beneficial owners have a significant degree of influence on matters that are required to be approved by our shareholders, they could influence the approval of transactions. Our failure to manage internal or acquisition-based growth may cause operational difficulties and negatively affect our financial performance. We expect to experience internal and/or acquisition-based growth, which may bring many challenges. Growth in the number of employees, sales and operations will place additional pressure on already limited resources and infrastructure. No assurances can be given that we will be able to effectively manage this or future growth. Our growth may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our success will depend upon our ability to manage our growth effectively which will require that we continue to implement and improve our operational, administrative and financial and accounting systems and controls and continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations and our management may not be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to exploit the market for our business model. If we are unable to manage internal and/or acquisition-based growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. Risks associated with recent economic trends could adversely affect our financial performance. In 2011 we will need to raise capital. Due to the tight credit markets and prolonged volatility in the stock market, funds may not be available, or may be available only on unfavorable terms. Due to the decrease in our stock price, we may need to sell more shares to raise the same amount of money than we would have in the past, resulting in greater dilution to existing shareholders than would be the case if our stock price was higher and this trend could continue. We have scheduled exploratory and development well drilling and workover activity during 2011 and future periods on our proved and unproved properties. It is anticipated that these activities together with others that we may undertake will impose financial requirements which will exceed our existing working capital. We may raise additional equity and/or debt capital, and we may farm-out certain of our projects to finance our continued part icipation in planned activities; however, if additional financing is not available, we may be compelled to reduce the scope of our business activities. If we are unable to fund planned expenditures, it may be necessary to: · farm-out our interest in proposed wells; · sell a portion of our interest in prospects and use the sale proceeds to fund our participation for a lesser interest; · forfeit our interest in wells that we propose to drill; and · reduce general and administrative expenses. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The shareholding position of holders of our common stock could be diluted by future issuances and conversions of other securities. If our options and warrants are exercised for common shares, holders of our common stock will experience immediate and, depending on the magnitude of the exercises, substantial dilution. As of March 31, 2011, 41,161,173 shares of our common stock are outstanding, 7,503,000 shares of our Series B Preferred stock are outstanding, 5,057,229 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of warrants and 2,895,000 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of options. 18 Table of Contents Investors may be subject to further dilution if we sell additional common shares or issue additional common shares in connection with future financings. If a significant number of our common shares are sold in the public market, the market price of our common shares could be depressed. This could hamper our ability to raise capital by issuing additional equity securities. Our results may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars and all of our revenue, and most of our operating costs, are currently denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we have operations outside the United States and we may expend money in Indonesia and Canada, where our operating costs will be denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may increase our relative cost of operating in these countries, and may therefore have a negative effect on our financial results. Non- U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the sale of our common shares and purchasers may have IRS withholding requirements Since we believe that we are a United States real property holding corporation, a gain recognized by a non-U.S. holder on the sale of our common shares will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at normal graduated rates, and a purchaser will be required to withhold for the benefit of the IRS 10% of the purchase price, unless certain trading requirements are met. There is an exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. holders of 5% or less of our common shares (and therefore no tax withholding requirements) if our common shares are “regularly traded on an established securities market.” In the event that 100 or fewer persons own 50% or more of our common shares (which had been, may now be and may continue to be, the case), temporary Treasury Regulations provide that our common shares will be “regularly traded on an established securities market” for a calendar quarter if the es tablished securities market is located in the United States and our common shares are regularly quoted by more than one broker or dealer making a market in our common shares; our common shares are currently listed on the NYSE Amex (which constitutes an established United States securities market for this purpose) and are being regularly quoted. There can be no assurance, however, that our common shares will continue to be regularly traded on an established securities market for this purpose in any particular calendar quarter so as to avoid U.S. federal income tax on the sale of our common shares by non-U.S. holders of 5% or less of our common shares and the withholding requirement on the purchaser. At such time that it is no longer the case that 100 or fewer persons own 50% or more of our common shares, under temporary Treasury Regulations, our common shares would also be “regularly traded” on an established securities market for a calendar quarter if: (a) our common shares trade, other than in de minimis quantities, on at least 15 days during the calendar quarter; (b) the aggregate number of our common shares traded during the calendar quarter is at least 7.5% of the average number of our common shares outstanding during such calendar quarter (reduced to 2.5% if there are 2,500 or more record shareholders); and (c) in the event that our common shares are traded on an established securities market located outside the United States, the common shares are registered under Sec. 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. See “Material Income Tax Consequences — Disposit ions of Common Shares” for a more detailed discussion. There is a limited public market for our common shares, and the ability of our shareholders to dispose of their common shares may be limited. Our common shares have been trading on the NYSE Amex (formerly the American Stock Exchange) since February 15, 2007. We cannot foresee the degree of liquidity that will be associated with our common shares. A holder of our common shares may not be able to liquidate his, her or its investment in a short time period or at the market prices that currently exist at the time the holder decides to sell. The purchase and sale of relatively small common share positions may result in disproportionately large increases or decreases in the price of our common shares. A trade involving a large number of common shares could have an exaggerated effect on the reported market price of our common shares. Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The stock market in general and the market for natural gas and oil exploration companies have experienced price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or asset values of companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously impact the market price and trading volume of our common shares regardless of our actual operating performance. The market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly as a result of: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results and our reserve estimates; 19 Table of Contents · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, including changes in oil and natural gas prices; · speculation in the press or investment community; · general market and economic conditions; · the success of our operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. The sale of large numbers of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are freely transferable or will be transferable in compliance with restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In 2011, we will need to raise additional working capital and investors may be subject to further dilution if we sell additional common shares or issue additional common shares in connection with future financings. If a significant number of our common shares are sold in the public market, the market price of our common shares could be depressed. This could hamper our ability to raise capital by issuing additional equity securities. We will continue to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company, which may negatively impact our financial performance. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NYSE Amex, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has increased our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. Furthermore, any additional increases in legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses that we may experience in the future could negatively impact our financial performance and have a material adverse effect on our results of opera tions and financial condition. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 