Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to risks and uncertainties in the ordinary course of business that are common to all businesses, important factors that are specific to our industry and our company could materially impact our future performance and results of operations. We have provided below a list of these risk factors that should be reviewed when considering our securities. These are not all the risks we face and other factors currently considered immaterial or unknown to us may impact our future operations. Risks Related to Our Business As of December 31, 2007 we have capitalized costs totaling $53.28 million as evaluated and unevaluated oil and gas properties whereas we have generated revenues of only $29.9 million since January 1, 2003 and revenues of only $6.9 million during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. Since inception, our activities have been primarily related to acquiring and exploring leasehold interests in oil and natural gas properties in Texas, California, Alaska, Alberta, Indonesia and Australia. We incur substantial acquisition and exploration costs and overhead expenses in our operations, and until 2003, excluding minor interest and dividend income, our only significant cash inflows were the recovery of capital invested in projects through sale or other divestitures of interests in oil and gas prospects to industry partners. As a result, we have sustained an accumulated deficit through December 30, 2007 of $12,010,789. Our production activities commenced in May 2003. Since May 2003, over 90% of our revenue has been generated from natural gas sales derived from wells in the Madisonville Field in Texas. It is possible that in the future we will be unable to continue to generate revenues from our sales of natural gas from our Madisonville Field wells because our proved reserves decline as reserves are produced from the wells. The drilling of exploratory oil and natural gas wells is highly speculative and often unproductive. Our participation in future drilling activities to explore, develop and exploit the properties in which we have an interest, or in which we may acquire interests, may be unsuccessful, may fail to generate positive cash flow, and may not enable us to maintain profitability in the future. Approximately 99% of our current revenues are generated by our interest in the Madisonville Project. Delays or interruptions of the Madisonville Project natural gas drilling and production operations including, but not limited to, events beyond our control or the failure of third parties on which we rely to provide key services, could negatively impact our revenues. Approximately 99% of our oil and natural gas revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were derived from the Madisonville Project. In connection with that project, we have contracted with third parties to provide key services, including: (a) Madisonville Gas Processing, LP, or MGP, which owns and operates gathering pipelines and a dedicated natural gas treatment plant which we utilize to treat impurities in the Madisonville Project natural gas; and (b) Gateway Processing Company, or Gateway which operates a sales pipeline for such natural gas. The failure of MGP or Gateway to perform their contractual obligations to us could impose delays or interruptions in our production operations and prevent us from generating revenues. In addition, events which are beyond our control, or that of Gateway or MGP, could affect our production operations. Such events include, but are not limited to: · events referred to as force majeure, such as an act of God, act of a public enemy, war, blockade, public riot, lightning, fire, storm, flood, explosion and any other causes whether of the kind enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of MGP, Gateway or our company. · subsurface conditions or formations encountered during the drilling of wells, whether natural or mechanical, including but not limited to blowout, igneous rock, salt, saltwater flow, loss of circulation, loss of hole, abnormal pressures, or any other impenetrable substance or adverse condition, which renders further drilling of a well impossible or impractical. · the inability to secure raw materials or equipment, 8 · transportation accidents, and · labor disputes and equipment failures. In excess of 90% of our revenues to date have been derived from sales by MGP to two customers. The loss of one or both these customers could have a material adverse impact on our oil and gas revenues. Approximately 99% of our oil and natural gas revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 were derived from the Madisonville Project. During 2007 and 2006, approximately 99% of our revenues have been derived from sales by MGP to two customers, Luminant Energy Company, LLC, and ETC Katy Pipeline, Ltd. The loss of one of these customers could impact the price we receive for our gas sold due to lessened competition. The loss of both customers could result in a total loss of our revenue. Unless we replace our oil and natural gas reserves, our reserves and production will decline. The volume of production from oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are depleted, with the rate of decline depending on reservoir characteristics. Our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced from our properties unless we are able to acquire or develop new reserves. The business of exploring for, developing or acquiring reserves is capital intensive. For example, as of December 30, 2007 we have capitalized costs totaling $53,276,945 as evaluated and unevaluated oil and gas properties. To the extent cash flow from operations is reduced and external sources of capital become limited or unavailable, our ability to make the necessary capital investment to maintain or expand our asset base of oil and natural gas reserves will be impaired. Even if we are able to raise capital to develop or acquire additional properties, no assurance can be given that our future exploitation and development drilling activities will result in the discovery of any reserves. Our exploration and development drilling activities may not be commercially successful. The drilling of exploratory oil and natural gas wells is expensive, highly speculative and often unproductive. Exploration for oil and natural gas on unproven prospects is expensive, highly speculative and involves a high degree of risk, including the risk that no commercially productive oil or natural gas reservoirs will be encountered. Reserves are dependent on our ability to successfully complete drilling activity on proven prospects. The cost of drilling, completing and operating wells is often uncertain, and drilling operations may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled as a result of a variety of factors, including: · unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in formations; · equipment failures or accidents, adverse weather conditions; · compliance with governmental requirements; and · shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment. Our evaluations of the oil and gas prospects of our properties may be wrong. With the exception of the Madisonville Project, the properties in which we have an interest are prospects in which the presence of oil and natural gas reserves in commercial quantities has not been established. Any decision to engage in exploratory drilling or other activities on any of these properties will be dependent in part on the evaluation of data compiled by petroleum engineers and geologists and obtained through geophysical testing and geological analysis. Reservoir engineering, geophysics and geology are not exact sciences and the results of studies and tests used to make such evaluations are sometimes inconclusive or subject to varying interpretations. As such, there is no certain way to know in advance whether any of our prospects will yield oil and natural gas in commercial quantities. Further, it is possible that we will participate in the drilling of more dry holes than productive wells or that all or substantially all of the wells drilled will 9 be dry holes. The drilling of dry holes on prospects in which we have an interest could adversely affect their values and our decision to undertake further exploration and development drilling of such prospects. It is not certain or predictable whether, and no assurance can be made that, the wells drilled on the properties in which we have an interest will be productive or, if productive, that we will recover all or any part of our investment in the properties. In sum, our participation in future drilling activities may not be successful and, if unsuccessful, such failure will negatively impact our revenues and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our oil and natural gas revenues were $6,890,777 and $6,716,360 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Future revenues could decline from those levels if our future drilling efforts are not successful. Furthermore, as of December 30, 2007 we have capitalized costs totaling $53.28 million as evaluated and unevaluated oil and gas properties. Should our future drilling activities be unsuccessful, we may then be required to record an impairment charge equal to a portion of, or all, of the capitalized costs resulting in an immediate adverse impact on our results of operations and financial position. Our business may be harmed by failures of third party operators on which we rely. Our ability to manage and mitigate the various risks associated with certain of our exploration and operations in Alberta, Canada, and Indonesia is limited since we rely on third parties to operate our projects. We are a non-operating interest owner in our Canadian and Indonesian properties. With respect to our interests outside of the United States, we have entered into agreements with third party operators for the conduct and supervision of drilling, completion and production operations. In the event that commercial quantities of oil and natural gas are discovered on one of our properties, the success of the oil and natural gas operations on that property depends in large measure on whether the operator of the property properly performs its obligations. The failure of such operators and their contractors to perform their services in a proper manner could result in materially adverse consequences to the owners of interests in that particular property, including us. Our percentage share of oil and gas revenues from our Indonesian property is diminished by the terms of our production sharing contract in the Bengara Block. C-G Bengara owns 100% of the underlying rights to explore for and produce oil and natural gas within the Bengara Block. We have a 12% interest in C-G Bengara. C-G Bengara is subject to a production sharing contract, which means generally that C-G Bengara is entitled to receive, from production proceeds, 100% of expenditures in the block as “cost recovery.” Once these costs are recovered, C-G Bengara’s production share will be reduced to approximately 26.7% of oil produced and 62.5% of all natural gas produced. We are entitled to 12% of C-G Bengara’s reduced share of any such production. See the discussion under “Properties for more information concerning the production sharing contract. Drilling and completion equipment, services, supplies and personnel are scarce and may not be available when needed, which could significantly disrupt or delay our operations. From time to time, there has been a general shortage of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and oilfield services in North America and Indonesia, which may intensify with current increased industry activity. In addition, the costs and delivery times of rigs, equipment and supplies have risen. There can be no assurance that sufficient drilling and completion equipment, services and supplies will be available when needed. Shortages could delay our proposed exploration, development drilling, 10 and sales activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our oil and natural gas revenues were $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. Future revenues could decline from those levels if we experience delays in our proposed exploration, development drilling, and sales activities. The demand for, and wage rates of, qualified rig crews have risen in the drilling industry due to the increasing number of active rigs in service. If the demand for qualified rig crews continues to rise in the drilling industry, then the oil and gas industry may experience shortages of qualified personnel to operate drilling rigs. This could delay our drilling operations and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our working interest in properties, and our ability to realize any profits from such properties, will be diminished to the extent that we enter into farmout arrangements with unaffiliated third parties. We have previously entered into, and may in the future enter into, farmout arrangements with third parties willing to drill natural gas and oil wells on leaseholds in which we originally acquired working interests, in exchange for our assignment of part or all of our leasehold interests. As a consequence of these arrangements, our retained interests in properties which are subject to farmout arrangements have been or may be diminished. Our opportunity to realize revenues and profits from properties which are successfully developed under farmout arrangements will be diminished to the extent of our reduced interests. Competition with other oil and natural gas exploration and development drilling companies for viable oil and natural gas properties may limit our success. It is likely that in seeking future property acquisitions, we will compete with companies which have substantially greater financial and management resources. Our competition comes primarily from three sources: (a) those competitors that are seeking oil and gas fields for expansion, further drilling, or increased production through improved engineering techniques; (b) income-seeking entities purchasing a predictable stream of earnings based upon historic production from fields being acquired; and (c) junior companies seeking exploration opportunities in unknown, unproven territories. Our competitors may be able to pay more for productive oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and purchase a greater number of properties and prospects than we can. Our ability to acquire additional properties in the future will depend upon our ability to conduct efficient operations, evaluate and select suitable properties, implement advanced technologies and consummate transactions in a highly competitive environment. Estimates of oil and natural gas reserves are inherently imprecise. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or underlying assumptions will affect materially the quantities and present value of our reserves. Estimates of proved oil and natural gas reserves and the future net cash flows attributable to those reserves are prepared by independent petroleum engineers and geologists. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves and cash flows attributable to such reserves, including factors beyond our control and that of our engineers. Reserve engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of oil and natural gas that cannot be measured in an exact manner. Different reserve engineers may make different estimates of reserves and cash flows based on the same available data. The accuracy of an estimate of quantities of reserves, or of cash flows attributable to such reserves, is a function of the available data, assumptions regarding future oil and natural gas prices and expenditures for future development drilling and exploration activities, and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Additionally, reserves and future cash flows may be subject to material downward or upward revisions, based upon production history, development drilling and exploration activities and prices of oil and natural gas. Actual future production, revenue, taxes, development drilling expenditures, operating expenses, underlying information, quantities of recoverable reserves and the value of cash flows from such reserves may vary significantly from the assumptions and underlying information set forth herein. 11 Competitive pressures may force us to implement new technologies at substantial cost and our limited financial resources may limit our ability to implement such technologies at the same rate as our competitors. The oil and gas industry is characterized by rapid and significant technological advancements and introductions of new products and services utilizing new technologies. Other oil and gas companies may have greater financial, technical and personnel resources that allow them to enjoy technological advantages and may in the future allow them to implement new technologies before we do. There can be no assurance that we will be able to respond to such competitive pressures and implement such technologies on a timely basis or at all. One or more of the technologies currently utilized by us or implemented in the future may become obsolete. We will require additional capital to fund our future activities. Our ability to pursue our business plan may be restricted by our access to additional financing. Until such time as the properties in which we own interests are generating sufficient cash flow to fund planned capital expenditures, we will be required to raise additional capital through the issuance of additional securities or otherwise sell or farm out interests in our oil and natural gas properties to third parties. If and when the properties in which we own interests become productive and have adequate reserves, we may borrow funds to finance our future oil and natural gas operations and exploratory and development drilling activities. We may not be able to raise additional funds in the future from any source or, if such additional funds are made available to us, we may not be able to obtain such additional financing on terms acceptable to us. To the extent such funds are not available from any of those sources, our operations and activities will be limited to those operations and activities we can afford with the funds then available to us. We have committed to a three well drilling program in our Madisonville project to facilitate the expansion of the gas treatment plant. The commitment is not discretionary. While we have fulfilled the commitment to drill the first two wells of the three well commitment, we are further required to drill a third well sufficient to test the Smackover Formation (estimated to be encountered at approximately 18,000 feet) on or before September 30, 2008. This well is expected to cost approximately $12 million to drill and complete. We have granted MGP a security interest in the Madisonville Field properties to secure the three well commitment. Subject to events of force majeure, and the availability of suitable drilling rigs, well services, and equipment, our failure to drill this well could result in the loss of our interest in the Madisonville Project. Our larger competitors, by reason of their size and relative financial strength, may be more easily able to access capital markets than us. The volatility in crude oil and natural gas prices could adversely affect our financial results and ability to raise additional capital. Our revenues, cash flows and profitability are substantially dependent on prevailing prices for both oil and natural gas. Decreases in natural gas prices will decrease revenues and cash flows from the Madisonville Project and our other producing properties, if any, and decreases in oil and natural gas prices could deter potential investors from investing in our company and generally impede our ability to raise additional financing to fund our exploration and development drilling activities. Historically, oil and natural gas prices and markets have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to wide fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of, and demand for, oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a variety of additional factors that are beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, political conditions in the Middle East and other regions, internal and political decisions of OPEC and other oil and natural gas producing nations to decrease or increase production of crude oil, domestic and foreign supplies of oil and natural gas, consumer demand, weather conditions, domestic and foreign government regulations, transportation costs, the price and availability of alternative fuels and overall economic conditions. Our current operations are particularly exposed to volatility in natural gas prices because a portion of the fees we pay to process natural gas at the Madisonville gas treatment plant is fixed. The sale price of natural gas must be above a minimum price of approximately $3.00 per Mcf at the present time before we earn any net revenues from the sale of natural gas. We are subject to a number of operational risks beyond our control against which we may not have, or be able to obtain insurance. Our operations are subject to the many risks and hazards incident to exploring and drilling for, and producing and transporting, oil and natural gas, including among other risks: · blowouts, fires, craterings, pollution and equipment failures that may result in damage to or destruction of wells, producing formations, production facilities and equipment; · personal injuries or death due to accidents, human error or acts of God; 12 · unavailability of materials and equipment to drill and complete or re-complete wells; unfavorable weather conditions; engineering and construction delays; · fluctuations in product markets and prices; proximity and capacity of pipeline, and trucking or termination facilities to our oil and natural gas reserves; hazards resulting from unusual or unexpected geological or environmental conditions; environmental regulations and requirements; · accidental leakage of toxic or hazardous materials, such as petroleum liquids or drilling fluids into the environment, remediation and clean-up costs; and · political instability and civil unrest, insurrections or disruptions in foreign countries in which some of our interests are located. If one or more of these events occurs, we could incur substantial liabilities to third parties or governmental entities, the payment of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, or we could lose properties in which we have invested significant sums (totaling $53.28 million) which are capitalized as evaluated and unevaluated oil and gas properties as of December 30, 2007. A loss not covered by insurance could result in substantial expenses to us. We do not insure fully against all business risks either because such insurance is not available or because premium costs are prohibitive. This is a common practice in the oil and gas industry. However, a loss not fully covered by insurance could result in expenses to us and could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. Uninsured losses in excess of $1.0 million would be materially adverse. We are subject to extensive government regulations that can change from time to time, compliance with which are costly and could negatively impact our production, operations and financial results. The oil and gas industry is subject to extensive government regulations in the countries in which we operate. Matters subject to regulation include discharge permits for drilling operations, drilling bonds, reports concerning operations, unitization and pooling of properties and taxation. Historically, our costs of complying with these regulations have not exceeded $100,000 per year. From time to time, regulatory agencies have imposed price controls and limitations on production by restricting the rate of flow of oil and natural gas wells below actual production capacity in order to conserve supplies of oil and natural gas. We are also subject to changing and extensive tax laws, the effects of which cannot be predicted. Legal requirements are frequently changed and subject to interpretation, and we are unable to predict the ultimate cost of compliance with these requirements or their effects on our operations. Future laws, or existing laws or regulations, as currently interpreted or reinterpreted or changed in the future, could result in increased operating costs, fines and liabilities, in amounts which are unknown at this time, any of which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our industry is subject to extensive environmental regulation that may limit our operations and negatively impact our production. Extensive national, state, provincial and local environmental laws and regulations in the United States and foreign jurisdictions affect nearly all of our operations. These laws and regulations set various standards regulating certain aspects of health and environmental quality, provide for penalties and other liabilities for the violation of such standards and establish in certain circumstances obligations to remediate current and former facilities and locations where operations are or were conducted. In addition, special provisions may be appropriate or required in environmentally sensitive areas of operation. Environmental legislation may require that we, among other things: · acquire permits before commencing drilling; · restrict spills, releases or emissions of various substances produced in association with our operations; 13 · limit or prohibit drilling activities on protected areas such as wetlands or wilderness areas; · take reclamation measures to prevent pollution from former operations; · take remedial measures to mitigate pollution from former operations, such as plugging abandoned wells and remediating contaminated soil and groundwater; · take remedial measures with respect to property designated as a contaminated site. The cost of any of these actions is presently unknown but is likely to be significant. Compliance with existing or future environmental legislation is unknown but could be substantial. Compliance with such legislation can require significant expenditures and a breach may result in the imposition of fines and penalties. The discharge of oil, natural gas or other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to liabilities to governments and third parties and may require us to incur substantial costs to remedy such discharge. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injury, clean-up costs and other environmental and property damages, as well as administrative, civil and criminal penalties. We could be required to cease production on properties if environmental damage occurs. Environmental legislation is evolving in a manner expected to result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability and potentially increased capital expenditures and operating costs. Changes in, or enforcement of, environmental laws may result in a curtailment of our production activities, or a material increase in the costs of production, development drilling or exploration, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations or prospects. We are not presently aware of any environmental liabilities or able to predict the ultimate cost of liabilities not yet recognized. We have recorded an asset retirement obligation in connection with the estimated future costs to plug certain wells in our Madisonville Project in Texas upon abandonment totaling approximately $53,726 as of December 31, 2007. Our natural gas deliveries to the Madisonville gas treatment plant may be affected by the demands of Crimson Exploration, Inc. (“Crimson”) and other third parties for access to the plant, and as a result, our access to the plant could be restricted. We are dependent upon the Madisonville gas treatment plant to treat our natural gas. We have committed all natural gas production from our interest in the Madisonville Project to MGP, which has in turn committed to provide treatment capacity of up to 68 MMcf/d for our natural gas. Third parties may seek access to the gas treatment plant through regulatory proceedings, which could restrict our access to the plant, disrupt our production operations and negatively impact our revenues. An example of such a proceeding is the complaint filed by Crimson with the Texas Railroad Commission described under “Properties—Description of the Properties—Texas—The Madisonville Gas Treatment Plant and Gathering Facilities.” On August 9, 2006, the Texas Railroad Commission issued an order requiring MGP to ratably process, take, transport or purchase natural gas produced by Crimson into the Madisonville gas treatment plant. MGP completed additional treating facilities to increase the design capacity from 18 MMcf/d to 68 MMcf/d in November of 2007, but operations in these additional facilities were suspended in December 2007 in order to more effectively deal with the presence of diamondoids in the gas stream produced from the Rodessa Formation. There is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain full access to treatment capacity of up to 68 MMcf/d once the phase-in is completed because, for example, Crimson now has the right to have its natural gas treated at the plant, which may reduce the plant’s ability to treat all of our natural gas, unless the plant’s capacity is further expanded. Political and/or economic conditions in Indonesia, Canada or the United States could change in manners that negatively affect our operations and prospects in those countries. Our business activities in Indonesia, Canada and the United States are subject to political and economic risks, including: loss of revenue, property and equipment as a result of unforeseen events like expropriation, nationalization, war, terrorist attacks and insurrection; increases in import, export and transportation regulations and tariffs, taxes and governmental royalties; renegotiation of contracts with governmental entities; changes in laws and policies governing operations of foreign-based companies; exchange controls, currency fluctuations and other uncertainties arising out of foreign government sovereignty over international operations; laws and policies affecting foreign trade, taxation and investment; and the possibility of being subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of foreign courts in connection with legal disputes and the possible inability to subject foreign persons to the jurisdiction of courts in the United States. 14 Terrorist attacks could have an adverse effect on our oil and natural gas operations, especially overseas. To date, our operations have not been disrupted by terrorist activity. It is uncertain how terrorist activity will affect us in the future, or what steps, if any, the Indonesian, Canadian or American government may take in response to terrorist activities. The attack on the New York World Trade Center in 2001 and the subsequent wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have increased the likelihood that U.S. citizens and U.S. owned interests may be targeted by terrorist groups operating both in the United States and in foreign countries, especially in Indonesia. We could lose our entire Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”), if BP Migas ascertains we have not discovered commercially producible hydrocarbons. It is possible that BP Migas could terminate our entire Production Sharing Contract (“PSC”) if it is determined that the hydrocarbons we have discovered are not in commercially producible quantities. Our Indonesian PSC requires us and our partners to submit to and receive approval from BP Migas for a “Plan of Development” by specified dates in order to maintain our oil and natural gas rights. See “Properties—Description of the Properties—Indonesia.” If we do not establish commerciality and receive an approved Plan of Development for the PSC, or successfully renegotiate the terms, all or part of our contract may be terminated. If this contract is terminated, we would also lose all of our investment in that overseas prospect. If we forfeit our interest in the contract area, it will be necessary to record an impairment write-down equal to the net capitalized costs recorded for the area forfeited. This could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of future operations in future periods. If approval of a Plan of Development is not obtained and if further deferrals of such obligations are not secured, we will need to record an impairment charge equal to the amount of costs capitalized which were approximately $582,946 as of December 31, 2007, and we may lose all of our rights in the Bengara Block. We may not be able to sell our natural gas production in Indonesia, limiting our ability to obtain a return on our investment there. Our Indonesian operations lack a local market for natural gas, and if we produce natural gas in Indonesia, it will most likely have to be transported to an area where there is a demand. If no market for natural gas develops locally, we may incur costs for transportation. If we are not able to sell our natural gas production at a commercially acceptable price or at all, we may not be able to obtain a return on our investment in our Indonesian property. We could lose our ownership interests in our properties due to a title defect of which we are not presently aware. As is customary in the oil and gas industry, only a perfunctory title examination, if any, is conducted at the time properties believed to be suitable for drilling operations are first acquired. Before starting drilling operations, a more thorough title examination is usually conducted and curative work is performed on known significant title defects. We typically depend upon title opinions prepared at the request of the operator of the property to be drilled. The existence of a title defect on one or more of the properties in which we have an interest could render it worthless and could result in a large expense to our business. Industry standard forms of operating agreements usually provide that the operator of an oil and natural gas property is not to be monetarily liable for loss or impairment of title. The operating agreements to which we are a party provide that, in the event of a monetary loss arising from title failure, the loss shall be borne by all parties in proportion to their interest owned. Our acquisition activities are subject to uncertainties, may not be successful and provide a return to us on our investments. We have grown primarily through acquisitions and intend to continue acquiring undeveloped oil and gas properties. Although we perform a review of the properties proposed to be acquired, such reviews are subject to uncertainties. It generally is not feasible to review in detail every individual property involved in an acquisition. Ordinarily, management review efforts are focused on the higher-valued properties; however, even a detailed review of all properties and records may not reveal existing or potential problems; nor will it permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties to assess fully their deficiencies and capabilities. Inspections are not always performed on every well, and potential problems, such as mechanical integrity of equipment and environmental conditions that may require significant remedial expenditures, are not necessarily observable even when an inspection is undertaken. 15 We are dependent upon our key officers and employees and our inability to retain and attract key personnel could significantly hinder our growth strategy and cause our business to fail. While no assurances can be given that our current management resources will enable us to succeed as planned, a loss of one or more of our current directors, officers or key employees could severely and negatively impact our operations and delay or preclude us from achieving our business objectives. Stuart Doshi, David Creel and Chris Steinhauser, the three members of our senior management team, have a combined experience of approximately 100 years in the oil and gas industry. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Messrs. Doshi, Creel and Steinhauser, we could suffer the loss of key individuals for one reason or another at any time in the future. There is no guarantee that we could attract or locate other individuals with similar skills or experience to carry out our business objectives. We maintain “key man” insurance with respect to our Chief Executive Officer, Stuart Doshi. Some of our directors may become subject to conflicts of interest which could impair their abilities to act in our best interest. Nick DeMare, one of our directors, is a director, officer and/or significant shareholder of other natural resource companies and David Anderson, another one of our directors, is a director and officer of Dundee Securities Corporation, an investment banking firm that was the lead underwriter of our public offering of common stock in Canada and concurrent previous private placement of common shares with qualified institutional buyers in the U.S. Their association with these other companies in the oil and gas business may give rise to conflicts of interest from time to time. For example, they could be presented with business opportunities in their capacities as our directors, which they could, in turn, offer to the other companies for whom they also serve as directors, rather than to us, whose interests might be competitive with ours. Our directors are required by law to act honestly and in good faith with a view to our best interests and to disclose any interest which they may have in any project or opportunity to us; however, their interests in the other companies may affect their judgment and cause such directors to act in a manner that is not necessarily in our best interests. Our directors and officers hold significant positions in our shares and their interests may not always be aligned with those of our other shareholders. As of December 31, 2007 our directors and officers beneficially own approximately 20% of our outstanding common stock. This shareholding level will allow the directors, officers and certain beneficial owners to have a significant degree of influence on matters that are required to be approved by shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant transactions. The short-term interests of our directors, officers and certain beneficial owners may not always be aligned with the long-term interests of our public shareholders, and vice versa. Because our directors, officers and certain beneficial owners have a significant degree of influence on matters that are required to be approved by our shareholders, they could influence the approval of transactions. Our failure to manage internal or acquisition-based growth may cause operational difficulties and negatively affect our financial performance. We expect to experience internal and/or acquisition-based growth, which may bring many challenges. Growth in the number of employees, sales and operations will place additional pressure on already limited resources and infrastructure. No assurances can be given that we will be able to effectively manage this or future growth. Our growth may place a significant strain on our managerial, operational, financial and other resources. Our success will depend upon our ability to manage our growth effectively which will require that we continue to implement and improve our operational, administrative and financial and accounting systems and controls and continue to expand, train and manage our employee base. Our systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our operations and our management may not be able to achieve the rapid execution necessary to exploit the market for our business model. If we are unable to manage internal and/or acquisition-based growth effectively, our business, results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 16 Risks Related to Our Common Stock The shareholding position of holders of our common stock could be diluted by future issuances and conversions of other securities. If our options and warrants are exercised for common shares, holders of our common stock will experience immediate and, depending on the magnitude of the exercises, substantial dilution. As of the date of this report, 2,441,688 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of warrants and 2,670,000 shares of our common stock are issuable upon exercise of options. Investors may be subject to further dilution if we sell additional common shares or issue additional common shares in connection with future financings. If a significant number of our common shares are sold in the public market, the market price of our common shares could be depressed. This could hamper our ability to raise capital by issuing additional equity securities. Our results may be affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars and all of our revenue, and most of our operating costs, are currently denominated in U.S. dollars; however, we have operations outside the United States and we plan to expend money in Indonesia and Canada, where our operating costs will be denominated in local currencies. Fluctuations in exchange rates may increase our relative cost of operating in these countries, and may therefore have a negative effect on our financial results. Non- U.S. holders of our common shares may be subject to U.S. federal income tax on the sale of our common shares and purchasers may have IRS withholding requirements Since we believe that we are a United States real property holding corporation, gain recognized by a non U.S. holder on the sale of our common shares will be subject to U.S. federal income tax at normal graduated rates, and a purchaser will be required to withhold for the benefit of the IRS 10% of the purchase price, unless certain trading requirements are met. There is an exemption from U.S. federal income tax for non-U.S. holders of 5% or less of our common shares (and therefore no tax withholding requirements) if our common shares are “regularly traded on an established securities market.” In the event that 100 or fewer persons own 50% or more of our common shares (which had been, may now be and may continue to be, the case), temporary Treasury Regulations provide that our common shares will be “regularly traded on an established securities market” for a calendar quarter if the established securities market is located in the United States and our common shares are regularly quoted by more than one broker or dealer making a market in our common shares; our common shares are currently listed on the American Stock Exchange (which constitutes an established United States securities market for this purpose) and are being regularly quoted. There can be no assurance, however, that our common shares will continue to be regularly traded on an established securities market for this purpose in any particular calendar quarter so as to avoid U.S. federal income tax on the sale of our common shares by non-U.S. holders of 5% or less of our common shares and the withholding requirement on the purchaser. At such time that it is no longer the case that 100 or fewer persons own 50% or more of our common shares, under temporary Treasury Regulations, our common shares would also be “regularly traded” on an established securities market for a calendar quarter if: (a) our common shares trade, other than in de minimis quantities, on at least 15 days during the calendar quarter; (b) the aggregate number of our common shares traded during the calendar quarter is at least 7.5% of the average number of our common shares outstanding during such calendar quarter (reduced to 2.5% if there are 2,500 or more record shareholders); and (c) in the event that our common shares are traded on an established securities market located outside the United States, the common shares are registered under Sec. 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (which is presently the case). See “Material Income Tax Consequences — Dispositions of Common Shares” for a more detailed discussion. There is a limited public market for our common shares, and the ability of our shareholders to dispose of their common shares may be limited. Our common shares have been listed on The Toronto Stock Exchange since March 2006, and have been trading on the American Stock Exchange since February 15, 2007. We cannot foresee the degree of liquidity that will be associated with our common shares. A holder of our common shares may not be able to liquidate his, her or its investment in a short time period or at the market prices that currently exist at the time the holder decides to sell. The purchase and sale of relatively small common share positions may result in disproportionately large increases or decreases in the price of our common shares. A trade involving a large number of common shares could have an exaggerated effect on the reported market price of our common shares. 17 Our stock price may fluctuate significantly. The stock market in general and the market for natural gas and oil exploration companies have experienced price and volume fluctuations that are often unrelated or disproportionate to the operating results or asset values of companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously impact the market price and trading volume of our common shares regardless of our actual operating performance. The market price of our common stock could also fluctuate significantly as a result of: · actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results and our reserve estimates; · changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, of public market analysts; · announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; · conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, including changes in oil and natural gas prices; · speculation in the press or investment community; · general market and economic conditions; · the success of our operating strategy; and · the operating and stock price performance of other comparable companies. The sale of large numbers of our common stock may depress the market price of our common stock. The sale of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that substantial sales may occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease. Substantially all of the shares of our common stock are freely transferable or will be transferable in compliance with restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. We will continue to incur significant expenses as a result of being a public company, which may negatively impact our financial performance. We have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting, insurance and other expenses as a result of being a public company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as related rules implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the American Stock Exchange, have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Compliance with these laws, rules and regulations has increased our expenses, including our legal and accounting costs, and made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We also believe these laws, rules and regulations have made it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and in the future we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as officers. Furthermore, any additional increases in legal, accounting, insurance and certain other expenses that we may experience in the future could negatively impact our financial performance and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 