Item 1A. Risk Factors The following information sets forth factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those contained in forward-looking statements we have made in this report, the information incorporated herein by reference and those we may make from time to time. Risks Relating to our Business Recent turmoil in the credit markets and the financial services industry may negatively impact our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity or market price of our common stock. Recently, general worldwide market and economic conditions have been unprecedented and challenging with tighter credit conditions and recession in most major economies continuing into 2009. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession, the subprime lending crisis, general credit market crisis, collateral effects on the finance and banking industries, volatile energy costs, inflation, slower economic activity, decreased consumer confidence, reduced corporate profits and capital spending have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for western and emerging economies. These conditions have had a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our ability to borrow money to finance our operations from our existing lenders under our loan agreements or obtain credit if our revolving line of credit has been impaired. The recent economic crisis has adversely impacted our customers’ discretionary spending. Because consumer purchases of discretionary items, such as our products, tend to decline during recessionary periods, when disposable income is lower, our sales have been and will continue to be adversely affected by the downturn in economic conditions. Additionally, our stock price could decrease if investors have concerns that our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively impacted by a worldwide macroeconomic downturn. Our business depends, in part, on factors affecting consumer spending that are not within our control. Our business depends on consumer demand for our products and, consequently, is sensitive to a number of factors that influence consumer spending, including general economic conditions, turmoil in the credit markets, disposable consumer income, levels of employment, salaries and wage rates, consumer confidence, recession, stock market volatility, war and fears of war, acts of terrorism, inclement weather, consumer debt, interest rates, sales tax rates and rate increases, inflation, and consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security generally. The purchase of our products by customers is discretionary, and therefore highly dependent upon the level of consumer spending, particularly among affluent customers. Adverse changes in factors affecting discretionary consumer spending could reduce consumer demand for our products, thus reducing our net sales and adversely affecting our operating results. The recent downturn in the housing market, the turmoil in the credit markets, the decrease in consumer confidence and uncertainties in general economic conditions including the current recession, have adversely affected our sales. In addition, fewer customers are shopping at our studios, our website or through the catalog. These factors have caused us to delay our expansion plans and this will likely result in lower net sales and hamper our ability to raise prices in line with costs and also could result in excess inventories, which could, in turn, lead to increased merchandise markdowns, promotional expenses and impairment charges, adversely affecting our profitability. In addition, promotional and/or prolonged periods of deep discount pricing by our competitors could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have recently revised our corporate strategy and our new strategy may not be successful. In mid-2006, we revised our corporate strategy by focusing on improving studio sales, increasing staffing in our customer service department, limiting the number of products we offer, reducing administrative expenses, revamping our website and seeking domestic sources of production of our products. In June 2006 we closed down our children’s furniture division (“Jax”) and liquidated the remaining inventory. We have also reduced the number of planned new studio openings, in an effort to reduce capital expenditures and generate positive cash flow. We may not be successful in increasing profitability and limiting expenditures, and the reduction in our planned growth may adversely affect our gross margins and our net sales may not increase as rapidly as planned or at all. 15 Table of Contents In response to lower sales following the economic downturn in 2008, in the fourth quarter of 2008 and January 2009 we undertook several initiatives to lower our expenses. We have restructured certain real estate lease contracts, reduced marketing and catalog expenses mainly with fewer planned catalog mailings and fewer pages, delayed implementation of a new ERP system, renegotiated certain support contracts and lowered outside contractor fees as well as headcount in all areas of the company. The total annualized reduction in expenses is expected to be approximately $18 million compared to 2008 levels. This response may not be sufficient to return the Company to profitability or generate sufficient liquidity to fund the operations of the business. If we fail to offer merchandise that our customers find attractive, the demand for our products may be limited. For our business to be successful, our product offerings must be distinctive in design, useful to the customer, well made, affordable and generally not widely available from other retailers. We may introduce new brands and product categories in the future which might not prove successful. For example, we launched a children’s furniture division under the “Jax” brand in 2005, which we determined to discontinue in June 2006. We now are testing our DWR:Tools for Living concept focused on selling non-furniture design items. In 2008 we opened two DWR:Tools for Living stores, one in Manhattan and one in Santa Monica, California. We introduced kitchen and bath product categories. If these products are unsuccessful, we might be required to liquidate the inventory and possibly take an impairment charge against our investment in the business concept. Further, if we devote time and resources to new brands and product categories, and those businesses are not as successful as we planned, then we risk damaging our overall business results. If our products become less popular with our customers, if other retailers, especially department stores or discount retailers, offer the same products or products similar to those we sell, or if demand generally for design products such as ours decreases or fails to grow, our sales may decline or we may be required to offer our products at lower prices. If customers buy fewer of our products or if we have to reduce our prices, our net sales will decline and our operating results would be adversely affected. We believe that our future growth will be substantially dependent on increasing sales of existing core products, and increasing our current gross margin rates. We may not be able to increase the sales of our existing core or maintain or increase our gross margin rate in future periods. Failure to do so may adversely affect our business. Moreover, in order to meet our strategic goals, we must successfully identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers new, innovative and high quality design products on a continuous basis. These products must appeal to a wide range of residential and commercial customers whose preferences may change in the future. If we misjudge either the market for our products or our customers’ purchasing habits, we may be faced with significant excess inventories for some products and missed opportunities for products we chose not to stock. In addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell our products at lower prices. This would have a negative effect on our business. The expansion of our studio operations could result in increased expenses with no guarantee of increased earnings. We plan to open one new outlet and relocate one studio during the first and second quarter 2009, respectively. We anticipate the costs associated with opening this new studio and outlet will be less than $1,000,000 in 2009. However, we may not be able to attain our target number of new studio openings in the future, and any of the new studios that we open may not be profitable, either of which could have an adverse impact on our financial results. Our ability to expand by opening new studios will depend in part on the following factors: • the availability of attractive studio locations; • our ability to negotiate favorable lease terms; • our ability to identify customer demand in different geographic areas; • general economic conditions; and • availability of sufficient funds for expansion. 16 Table of Contents We expect that our studio operations will remain concentrated in limited geographic areas. This concentration could increase our exposure to fluctuating customer demand, adverse weather conditions, competition, distribution problems and poor economic conditions in these regions. In addition, our phone sales, online sales or existing studio sales in a specific region may decrease as a result of new studio openings in that region. If we continue to add studios, we will need to hire additional management and staff for our corporate offices and employees for each new studio. We must also expand our management information systems and distribution systems to serve these new studios. If we are unable to hire necessary personnel or grow our existing systems, our expansion efforts may not succeed and our operating results may suffer. Some of our expenses will increase with the opening of new studios, such as headcount and lease occupancy expenses. Moreover, as we increase inventory levels to provide studios with product samples and support the incremental sales generated from additional studios, our inventory expenses will increase. We may not be able to manage this increased inventory without adversely affecting our earnings. If studio sales are inadequate to support these new costs, we will continue to struggle to generate net income or sufficient liquidity to fund the operations of the Company. In addition, if we were to close any studio, whether because a studio is unprofitable or otherwise, we likely would be unable to recover our investment in leasehold improvements at that studio and would be liable for remaining lease obligations. Upon closing a studio, we would be require to charge to earnings an impairment for any unamortized leasehold improvement costs and the fair value of future lease payments. We do not have long-term vendor contracts with our vendors and as a result we may not have continued or exclusive access to products that we sell. Our performance depends on our ability to purchase our merchandise in sufficient quantities at competitive prices. All of the products that we offer are manufactured by third-party suppliers. During 2008 we sourced our merchandise primarily from over 300 foreign and domestic designers, manufacturers and distributors. Merchandise vendors could cease their operations, discontinue extending us credit terms or selling to us at any time. We have no long-term purchase contracts with any of our suppliers and, therefore, have no contractual assurances of continued supply, pricing, availability or exclusivity of our products from year to year, and any vendor could discontinue selling to us at any time. If we are unable to provide our customers with continued access to popular products, our net sales will decline and our operating results would be harmed. In 2008, products supplied by our five largest vendors represented approximately 43.1% of net purchases. Additionally, some of our smaller vendors have limited resources, production capacities and operating histories, which mean that they may not be able to timely produce sufficient quantities of certain products demanded by our customers. We may not be able to acquire desired merchandise in sufficient quantities on terms acceptable to us in the future. Any inability to acquire suitable merchandise or the loss of one or more key vendors could have a negative effect on our business and operating results because we would be missing products from our merchandise mix unless and until alternative supply arrangements are made. Moreover, we may not be able to develop relationships with new vendors and products from alternative sources, if any, may be of a lesser quality or more expensive than those we currently purchase. We rely on catalog-based marketing, which could have significant cost increases and could have unpredictable results. Our success depends in part on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products effectively through the Design Within Reach catalog. We believe that the success of our catalog operations depends on the following factors: • our ability to continue to offer a merchandise mix that is attractive to our customers; • our ability to achieve adequate response rates to our mailings; • our ability to add new customers in a cost-effective manner; • our ability to design, produce and deliver appealing catalogs in a cost-effective manner; and 17 Table of Contents • our ability to timely deliver catalog mailings to our customers. Catalog production and mailings entail substantial paper, postage, merchandise acquisition and human resource costs, including costs associated with catalog development and increased inventories. We incur nearly all of these costs prior to the mailing of each catalog. As a result, we are not able to adjust the costs incurred in connection with a particular mailing to reflect the actual performance of the catalog. Recent increases in the costs of mailing and paper have increased our costs and adversely impacted our earnings. Future increases in costs of mailing, paper or printing would further harm our earnings as we would be unable to pass such increases directly on to our customers or offset such increases by raising prices. If we were to experience a significant shortfall in anticipated sales from a particular mailing, and thereby not recover the costs associated with that mailing, our future results would be adversely affected. In addition, response rates to our mailings and, as a result, sales generated by each mailing, are affected by factors such as consumer preferences, economic conditions, the timing of catalog mailings, the product mix in a particular catalog, the timely delivery by the postal system of our catalog mailings and changes in our merchandise mix, several of which may be outside our control. Furthermore, we have historically experienced fluctuations in the response rates to our catalog mailings. Customer response to our catalogs is dependent on merchandise assortment, merchandise availability and creative presentation, as well as the size and timing of delivery of the catalogs. If we are unable to achieve adequate response rates, we could experience lower sales, significant markdowns or write-offs of inventory and lower margins, which would adversely affect our future operating results. Furthermore, in response to lower forecasted revenue due to the economic downturn, we plan to reduce catalog size, frequency, and circulation in 2009 which may adversely affect sales. We must manage our online business successfully or our business will be adversely affected. Our success depends in part on our ability to market, advertise and sell our products through our website. In 2008, online sales totaled $23,759,000, representing 13.3% of our total net sales. The success of our online business depends, in part, on factors over which we have limited control. In addition to changing consumer preferences and buying trends relating to Internet usage, we are vulnerable to additional risks and uncertainties associated with the Internet. These risks include changes in required technology interfaces, website downtime or slowdowns and other technical failures or human errors, changes in applicable federal and state regulation, security breaches, and consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to respond successfully to these risks and uncertainties might adversely affect the sales through our online business, as well as damage our reputation and increase our selling, general and administrative expenses. We have made and will continue to make certain systems changes that might disrupt our supply chain operations and delay financial results. Our success depends on our ability to source merchandise efficiently through appropriate systems and procedures. In May 2005, we converted our then existing information technology system to a new, custom-built system supporting our product sourcing, merchandise planning, forecasting, inventory management, product distribution and transportation and price management. We also used this information technology system to generate information for our financial reporting. We encountered problems with the conversion, due in large part to the absence of rigorous testing of the new systems prior to implementation. In particular, these systems did not contain mechanisms to automatically identify and correct or reject erroneous or incomplete data. As a result during the third quarter of 2005, we decided to replace the current system. In addition, these system problems resulted in our being unable to complete our 2006 and 2005 audits timely and file our 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K in a timely manner. 18 Table of Contents During 2006, we selected a software vendor and during 2007, began the process of implementing the new system. During 2008 we converted our website on to a new platform, installed a new warehousing and distribution system at our fulfillment center and installed a new point-of-sale system at our Secaucus, N.J. outlet and new DWR:Tools for Living stores. However, in the fourth quarter 2008 and 2009 we deferred the implementation of the remainder of new information technology system under our cost reduction program due to recent economic conditions and the resulting decreased sales. When we resume the implementation of the new system, we will be subject to risks inherent in replacing our core systems, including possible supply chain disruptions that could affect our ability to deliver products to our customers or delays in obtaining the information necessary for our financial reporting. We may not be able to successfully install these new systems or install them without supply chain disruptions or delays in releasing our financial results in the future. Any resulting supply chain disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we cannot produce timely and reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. Management has identified material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal controls in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and stock price. As required by Securities and Exchange Commission Rule 13a-15(b), we carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that control deficiencies which constituted material weaknesses existed in our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the period covered by this report. As a result of these material weaknesses, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the period covered by this report at the reasonable assurance level. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Management determined that we had material weaknesses in our control environment because as of the end of the period covered by this report we did not have effective controls over the initiation, authorization, review, documentation and recording of the financial impact of material contracts, or maintain processes to verify that internal controls over financial reporting were performed correctly or in a timely and consistent basis. These control deficiencies could result in material misstatements of the annual or interim financial statements that would not be prevented or detected. For more information about the material weaknesses identified by management, please see Part I, Item 9A, “Controls and Procedures.” We have begun to take steps to strengthen our internal control processes to address the matters we have identified. When a deficiency was discovered, we followed up with the parties involved and monitored corrective action and confirmed the control has been corrected and updated. These measures may not, however, completely eliminate the material weaknesses we identified, and we may have additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls that we have not yet identified. The existence of one or more material weaknesses or significant deficiencies could result in material errors in our financial statements, and we may incur substantial costs and may be required to devote substantial resources to rectify any internal control deficiencies. If we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls in accordance with applicable standards, we may be unable to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. If we cannot produce timely and reliable financial reports, our business and financial condition could be harmed, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information, the market price of our stock could decline significantly and we may be unable to obtain additional financing to operate and expand our business. 19 Table of Contents We may need additional financing and may not be able to obtain additional financing on favorable terms or at all, which could increase our costs, limit our ability to grow and dilute the ownership interests of existing stockholders. On February 2, 2007, we entered into a Loan, Guaranty and Security Agreement, or the Loan Agreement, with Wells Fargo Retail Finance, LLC, or Wells Fargo, which replaced the previous loan with Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N.A. The Loan Agreement expires on February 2, 2012 and provides for an initial overall credit line up to $20,000,000 which may be increased to $25,000,000 at our option, provided we are not in default on the Loan Agreement. The Loan Agreement consists of a revolving credit line and letters of credit up to $5,000,000. The amount we may borrow at any time under the Loan Agreement is based upon a percentage of eligible inventory and accounts receivable less certain reserves. Advance rates under the credit line are, in part, determined by third party appraisals of the net liquidation value of our inventories. Borrowings are secured by the right, title and interest to all of our personal property, including cash, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, fixtures, general intangibles and intellectual property. The Loan Agreement contains various restrictive covenants, including maximum availability, which is the amount we may borrow under the Loan Agreement, less certain outstanding obligations, plus certain cash and cash equivalents, limitations on indebtedness, limitations on subordinated indebtedness and limitations on the amount of capital expenditures we may incur in any fiscal year. We are currently in compliance with all of these restrictive covenants. In the fourth quarter 2008 and first quarter 2009, bank commissioned appraisals determined that the net liquidation value of our inventories had declined due to general market conditions and, as a result, our advance rates were reduced which constricts the availability of borrowings under the line of credit. The availability of borrowings may continue to decrease if general market conditions decline further. In addition, Wells Fargo increased discretionary reserves by $1,500,000 in the first quarter of 2009. On March 18, 2009, we entered into a first amendment to the Loan Agreement and a Securities Account Availability agreement with Wells Fargo in which Wells Fargo increased the amount of advances otherwise available to us by $1,000,000 in exchange for us granting Wells Fargo collateral rights to one of our deposit accounts with a balance of approximately $4,678,000. From such accounts, Wells Fargo will permit us to withdraw amounts in excess of $2,000,000 so long as no Default or Event of Default has occurred. In addition, Wells Fargo rescinded its decision to require additional discretionary reserves of $1,500,000. Other than the Loan Agreement, we do not have any significant available credit, bank financing or other external sources of liquidity. We may need to raise additional capital in the future to fund our working capital requirements, open additional studios, to facilitate long-term expansion, to respond to competitive pressures or to respond to unanticipated financial requirements. The amount of financing that we will require for these efforts will vary depending on our financial results, our ability to generate cash from internal operations, and the number and speed at which we open additional studios. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise the additional capital required to meet our objectives. Our access to additional financing will depend on a variety of factors such as market conditions, the general availability of credit, the volume of trading activities, the overall availability of credit to our industry, our credit ratings and credit capacity, as well as the possibility that customers or lenders could develop a negative perception of our long- or short-term financial prospects. Our financial circumstances at the time of any future financing transaction may make the terms, conditions and cost of any available capital relatively unfavorable. If additional debt or equity capital is not readily available, we will be forced to scale back, or fail to address opportunities for expansion or enhancement of, our operations. 20 Table of Contents If we do not manage our inventory levels successfully, our operating results will be adversely affected. We historically maintained a philosophy of “in stock and ready to ship.” We have moved away from strict adherence to this philosophy because we believe our customers sometimes would rather have the option to special order a product in a particular color, for example, than be restricted to limited color selections we may have in stock. Nevertheless, on most of the products we offer, we strive to maintain sufficient inventory levels such that on those products we are in fact in stock and ready to ship. However, we also must guard against the risk of accumulating excess inventory as we seek to fulfill this strategy. Our success depends upon our ability to anticipate and respond to changing merchandise trends and customer demands in a timely manner. If we misjudge market trends, we may overstock unpopular products and be forced to take significant inventory markdowns, which would have a negative impact on our operating results. Conversely, shortages of popular items could result in loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Consumer preferences may change between the time we order a product and the time it is available for sale. We base our product selection on our projections of consumer preferences in a future period, and our projections may not be accurate. As a result, we are vulnerable to consumer demands and trends, to misjudgments in the selection and timing of our merchandise purchases and to fluctuations in the U.S. economy. Additionally, much of our inventory is sourced from vendors located outside the United States that often require lengthy advance notice of our requirements in order to be able to produce products in the quantities we request. This usually requires us to order merchandise, and enter into purchase order contracts for the purchase and manufacture of such merchandise, well in advance of the time such products will be offered for sale, which makes us vulnerable to changes in consumer demands and trends. If we do not accurately predict our customers’ preferences and acceptance levels of our products, our inventory levels will not be appropriate and our operating results may be negatively impacted. We obtain supplies of many of our products from manufacturers and suppliers located in Europe, many of which close for vacation during the month of August each year. Accordingly, during September, and in many cases, for several weeks, thereafter, as manufacturing resumes and products are shipped to the United States, we are often unable to receive product shipments from these suppliers. As a result, we are required to make projections regarding customer demand for these products for the third and fourth quarters of each year and order sufficient product quantities for delivery in advance of the August shutdown. If we misjudge demand for any of these items, our inventory levels may be too high or low. If we have a shortage of a particular item affected by the August shutdown, we may not be able to procure additional quantities for some weeks or months, which could result in loss of sales and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Intellectual property claims against us could be costly and could impair our business. Third parties may assert claims against us alleging infringement, misappropriation or other violations of patent, trademark, trade dress, or other proprietary rights held by them, whether or not such claims have merit. In addition, when marketing or selling our products, we may refer to or use product designations that are or may be trademarks of other people, who may allege that we have no right to use such marks or product designations and bring actions against us to prevent us from using them. If we are forced to defend against third-party infringement claims, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, we could face expensive and time-consuming litigation, which could divert management personnel, or result in product shipment delays. If an infringement claim is determined against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages or ongoing royalties, or to cease selling the infringing product, which may have a significant adverse impact on our sales volume and gross margins, especially if we are required to stop selling any of our best-selling items as a result of, or in connection with, such claim. Further, as a result of infringement claims either against us or against those who license rights to us, we may be required to enter into costly royalty, licensing or product distribution agreements. Such royalty, licensing or product distribution agreements may be unavailable on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. If a third party successfully asserts an infringement claim against us and we are required to pay monetary damages or royalties or we are unable to obtain suitable non-infringing alternatives or license the infringed or similar intellectual property on reasonable terms on a timely basis, it could significantly harm our business. Moreover, any such litigation regarding infringement claims may result in adverse publicity which may harm our reputation. 21 Table of Contents We are subject to various risks and uncertainties that might affect our ability to procure quality merchandise from our vendors or receive favorable payment terms from our vendors. Our performance depends on our ability to procure quality merchandise from our vendors. Our vendors are subject to certain risks, including availability of raw materials, labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather, natural disasters, and general economic and political conditions that might limit their ability to provide us with quality merchandise on a timely basis. For these or other reasons, one or more of our vendors might not adhere to our quality control standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise is shipped to us or our customers. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise could reduce our net sales, damage our reputation and have an adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, the global credit crisis may affect the liquidity and viability of our vendors and may cause them to provide less favorable payment terms. Any such changes could require us to seek different vendors from which to purchase products and could require us to borrow additional funds under our revolving credit line to finance the purchase of our products. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies and any failure by us to adopt and implement an effective hedging strategy could adversely affect our operating results. In 2008, we generated approximately 98% our net sales in U.S. dollars, but we purchased approximately 36% of our product inventories from manufacturers in foreign countries with 25% of our product inventory purchases being paid for in Euros. Increases and decreases in the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro result in fluctuations in the cost to us of merchandise sourced from Europe. As a result of such currency fluctuations, we have experienced and may continue to experience fluctuations in our operating results on an annual and a quarterly basis going forward. Specifically, as the value of the U.S. dollar declines relative to the Euro, our effective cost of supplies of product increases. As a result, declines in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Euro and other foreign currencies would increase our cost of goods sold and decrease our gross margins. We may be unable to mitigate the effects of currency fluctuations on our gross margins by increasing prices as increasing prices adversely affects sales volume. We purchased foreign currency forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency risk in 2008. In 2008, the value of the dollar increased approximately 5% relative to the Euro resulting in losses on some of those contracts and as a result we discontinued purchasing hedge contracts at the end of 2008. We do not hold any foreign currency forward contracts as of January 3, 2009. We opened our first studio in Canada in 2008. In 2008, the value of the U.S. dollar increased approximately 24% relative to the Canadian dollar. If the Canadian dollar continues to decrease in value relative to the U.S. dollar, our margins on Canadian sales may be adversely impacted. If we raise prices to our Canadian customers to compensate for currency fluctuations, our Canadian sales may be adversely impacted. In addition, we may not be able to make timely price changes to compensation for currency fluctuations to protect our margins. We have assets, primarily cash and credit card accounts receivable; liabilities, primarily obligations to merchandise vendors; cash receipts from customers; and cash payment obligations, primarily studio occupancy and payroll costs, denominated in Canadian dollars. Consequently, we may incur gains or losses in our results from operations due to fluctuations in the Canadian dollar relative to the U.S. dollar. Although Canadian sales are only 2% of our total sales, Canadian sales volume may grow and have a larger impact on our business from currency fluctuations. We rely on foreign sources of production, which subjects us to various risks. We source a portion of our products from foreign manufacturers located in Canada, Denmark, Germany, Italy, The Netherlands, Spain, China and in other countries. As such, we are subject to other risks and uncertainties associated with changing economic and political conditions in foreign countries. These risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, work stoppages, economic uncertainties including inflation, foreign government regulations, wars and fears of war, acts of terrorism, political unrest and trade restrictions. Additionally, countries in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future may become subject to trade restrictions imposed by the United States or foreign governments. Any event causing a disruption or delay of imports from foreign vendors, including the imposition of additional import restrictions, restrictions on the transfer of funds or increased tariffs or quotas could increase the cost or reduce the supply of merchandise available to us and adversely affect our operating results. 22 Table of Contents There is also a risk that one or more of our foreign vendors will not adhere to fair labor standards and may engage in child labor practices. If this happens, we could lose customer goodwill and favorable brand recognition, which could negatively affect our business. If we fail to timely and effectively obtain shipments of product from our vendors and deliver merchandise to our customers, our operating results will be adversely affected. We cannot control all of the various factors that might affect our timely and effective procurement of supplies of product from our vendors and delivery of merchandise to our customers. All products that we purchase, domestically or overseas, must be shipped to our fulfillment center in Hebron, Kentucky by third-party freight carriers, except for those products that are shipped directly to our customers from the manufacturer. Our dependence on foreign imports also makes us vulnerable to risks associated with products manufactured abroad, including, among other things, risks of damage, destruction or confiscation of products while in transit to our fulfillment center, work stoppages including as a result of events such as longshoremen strikes, transportation and other delays in shipments including as a result of heightened security screening and inspection processes or other port-of-entry limitations or restrictions in the United States, lack of freight availability and freight cost increases. In addition, if we experience a shortage of a popular item, we may be required to arrange for additional quantities of the item, if available, to be delivered to us through airfreight, which is significantly more expensive than standard shipping by sea. As a result, we may not be able to obtain sufficient freight capacity on a timely basis or at favorable shipping rates and, therefore, we may not be able to timely receive merchandise from our vendors or deliver our products to our customers. We rely upon land-based carriers for merchandise shipments from U.S. ports to our facility in Hebron, Kentucky and from this facility to our customers. Accordingly, we are subject to the risks, including labor disputes, union organizing activity, inclement weather and increased fuel costs, associated with such carriers’ ability to provide delivery services to meet our inbound and outbound shipping needs. For example, increases in oil prices in 2007 and 2008 resulted in increases in our shipping expenses. We were not able to pass all of this increase on to our customers, which has adversely affected our shipping margins. Failure to procure and deliver merchandise either to us or to our customers in a timely, effective and economically viable manner could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business. In addition, any increase in fulfillment costs and expenses could adversely affect our future financial performance. All of our fulfillment operations are located in our facility in Hebron, Kentucky, and any significant disruption of this center’s operations would hurt our ability to make timely delivery of our products. We conduct all of our fulfillment operations from our facility in Hebron, Kentucky. Other than samples located at our studios and products that are shipped directly to our customer from the manufacturer, we house our entire inventory and ship all of our products to our customers from our fulfillment center. A natural disaster or other catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, severe storm, break-in, terrorist attack or other comparable event affecting our fulfillment center would cause interruptions or delays in our business and loss of inventory and could render us unable to accept or fulfill customer orders in a timely manner, or at all. Further, we have no formal disaster recovery plan and our business interruption insurance may not adequately compensate us for losses that may occur. In the event that a fire, natural disaster or other catastrophic event were to destroy a significant part of our Hebron, Kentucky facility or interrupt our operations for any extended period of time, or if harsh weather conditions prevent us from delivering products in a timely manner, our net sales would be reduced and our operating results would be harmed. 23 Table of Contents Our computer and communications hardware and software systems are vulnerable to damage and interruption, which could harm our business. Our ability to receive and fulfill orders successfully is critical to our success and largely depends upon the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications hardware and software systems. Our primary computer systems and operations are located at our corporate headquarters in San Francisco, California and distribution center in Hebron, Kentucky and are vulnerable to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events, and errors in usage by our employees and customers. In the event that this service provider experiences any interruption in its operations or ceases operations for any reason, we could experience a significant interruption in the availability or functionality of our website or our sales processing, distribution or communications systems, which could seriously harm our business. We outsourced the hosting of our website and point-of-sale system and the transmission of our customer orders and sales back to our processing system to a third-party vendor, which subjects us to risks, including disruptions in our business and increased costs. In 2008 we transitioned our website to MarketLive and website servers located at the facilities of, and hosted by, a third-party service provider in Santa Clara, California. In addition, we installed a new point-of-sale system at our Secaucus, N.J. outlet and new DWR:Tools for Living stores that resides on a server hosted by a third-party service provider. These critical systems are subject to risks of these third-party service providers having the ability to provide services to meet our needs. Our operations will depend significantly upon these third-party service providers’ abilities to make our website and point-of-sale system available and to protect our related data from damage or interruption from human error, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, labor disputes, natural disasters and similar events. If the cost of third-party service providers hosting and managing our systems is more than expected, or if third-party service providers were unable to adequately protect our data and transmit customer orders and sales to our processing system accurately and in a timely manner, then our business and results of operations may be negatively impacted. If we are unable to provide satisfactory customer service, we could lose customers and our reputation could be harmed. Our ability to provide satisfactory levels of customer service depends, to a large degree, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our customer call center. Any material disruption or slowdown in our order processing systems resulting from labor disputes, telephone or Internet failures, power or service outages, natural disasters or other events could make it difficult or impossible to provide adequate customer service and support. Further, we may be unable to attract and retain adequate numbers of competent customer service representatives, who are essential in creating a favorable, interactive customer experience. In addition, e-mail and telephone call volumes in the future may exceed our present system’s capacities. If this occurs, we could experience delays in taking orders, responding to customer inquiries and addressing customer concerns, which would have an adverse effect on customer satisfaction and our reputation. We also are dependent on third-party shipping companies for delivery of products to customers. If these companies do not deliver goods in a timely manner or damage products in transit, our customers may be unsatisfied. Because our success depends in large part on keeping our customers satisfied, any failure to provide high levels of customer service would likely impair our reputation and have an adverse effect on our future financial performance. 24 Table of Contents We face intense competition, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may not be able to maintain profitability. The specialty retail furnishings market is highly fragmented but highly competitive. We compete with other companies that market lines of merchandise similar to ours, such as large retailers with a national or multinational presence, regional operators with niche assortments and catalog and Internet companies. Many of our competitors are larger companies with greater financial resources than us. We expect that as demand for high quality design products grows, many new competitors will enter the market and competition from established companies will increase. Moreover, increased competition may result in potential or actual litigation between us and our competitors relating to such activities as competitive sales practices, relationships with key suppliers and manufacturers and other matters. As a result, increased competition may adversely affect our future financial performance. The competitive challenges facing us include: • anticipating and quickly responding to changing consumer demands better than our competitors; • maintaining favorable brand recognition and achieving customer perception of value; • effectively marketing and competitively pricing our products to consumers in several diverse markets; and • offering products that are distinctive in design, useful to the customer, well made and affordable, in a manner that favorably distinguishes us from our competitors. In light of the many competitive challenges facing us, we may not be able to compete successfully. Increased competition could adversely affect our future net sales. We maintain a liberal merchandise return policy, which allows customers to return most merchandise and, as a result, excessive merchandise returns could harm our business. We maintain a liberal merchandise return policy that allows customers to return most merchandise received from us if they are dissatisfied with those items. We make allowances for returns in our financial statements based on historical return rates. Actual merchandise returns may exceed our allowances for returns. In addition, because our allowances are based on historical return rates, the introduction of new products, the opening of new studios, the introduction of new catalogs, increased sales online, changes in our merchandise mix or other factors may cause actual returns to exceed return allowances. Any significant increase in merchandise returns that exceed our allowances could have a material adverse effect on our future operating results. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the efforts and abilities of our current senior management to execute our business plan. In particular, we are dependent on the services of Ray Brunner, our President and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Brunner, any of the other members of our senior management team, or of other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to implement our business strategy and on our business results. Recent changes in our senior management have been, and any future departures of key employees or other members of senior management may be, disruptive to our business and may adversely affect our operations. Additionally, our future performance will depend upon our ability to attract and retain qualified management, merchandising and sales personnel. If members of our existing management team are not able to manage our company or our growth, or if we are unable to attract and retain additional qualified personnel as needed in the future, our business results will be negatively impacted. 25 Table of Contents We have grown quickly and if we fail to manage future growth, our business will suffer. Through 2006, we rapidly and significantly expanded our operations. Since then, our growth has been more measured, but we plan to continue to expand to address potential market opportunities. Our historic expansion placed, and our future expansion is expected to continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operational resources. We need to properly implement and maintain our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, including disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, if we are presented with appropriate opportunities, we may in the future make investments in, or possibly acquire, assets or businesses that we believe are complementary to ours. Any such investment or acquisition may further strain our financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures. These difficulties could disrupt our business, distract our management and employees and increase our costs. If we are unable to manage growth effectively or successfully integrate any assets or businesses that we may acquire, our future financial performance would be adversely affected. If the protection of our trademarks and proprietary rights is inadequate, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. We regard our copyrights, service marks, trademarks, trade dress, patents, trade secrets and other intellectual property as critical to our success. Our principal intellectual property rights include trademark registrations or applications for our name, “Design Within Reach,” our logo, and the acronym, “DWR,” among others; copyrights and trade dress rights in our catalogs, website and certain of our products, such as our commissioned designs, and packaging; rights to our domain name, www.dwr.com, and our databases and information management systems; and patent registrations or applications, and other proprietary rights, in certain product designs. We rely on trademark, copyright, patent, unfair competition and trade secret laws and confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, suppliers and others, to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, the steps we take to protect our proprietary rights may be inadequate. If we are unable to protect or preserve the value of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, trade secrets or other proprietary rights for any reason, our brand and reputation could be impaired and we could lose customers. In addition, the costs of defending our intellectual property may adversely affect our operating results. We may face product liability claims or product recalls that are costly and create adverse publicity. The products we sell may from time to time contain defects which could subject us to product liability claims and product recalls. Any such product liability claim or product recall may result in adverse publicity regarding us and the products we sell, which may harm our reputation. If we are found liable under product liability claims, we could be required to pay substantial monetary damages. Further, even if we successfully defend ourselves against this type of claim, we could be forced to spend a substantial amount of money in litigation expenses, our management could be required to spend valuable time in the defense against these claims and our reputation could suffer, any of which could harm our business. In addition, although we maintain limited product liability insurance, if any successful product liability claim or product recalls are not covered by or exceeds our insurance coverage, our financial condition would be harmed. The security risks of online commerce, including credit card fraud, may discourage customers from purchasing products from us online. For our online sales point to continue to succeed, we and our customers must be able to transmit confidential information, including credit card information, securely over public networks. Third parties may have the technology or know-how to breach the security of customer transaction data. Any breach could cause customers to lose confidence in the security of our website and choose not to purchase from us. Although we take the security of our systems very seriously, our security measures may not effectively prohibit others from obtaining improper access to our information. If a person is able to circumvent our security measures, he or she could destroy or steal valuable information or disrupt our operations. Any security breach could expose us to risks of data loss, litigation and liability and could seriously disrupt our operations and harm our reputation. 26 Table of Contents We do not carry insurance against the risk of credit card fraud, so the failure to prevent fraudulent credit card transactions could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, we may in the future suffer losses as a result of orders placed with fraudulent credit card data even though the associated financial institution approved payment of the orders. Under current credit card practices, we may be liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature when we sell our products by telephone or online. If we are unable to detect or control credit card fraud, our liability for these transactions could harm our financial condition. Existing or future government regulation could harm our business. We are subject to the same federal, state and local laws as other companies conducting business online, including consumer protection laws, user privacy laws and regulations prohibiting unfair and deceptive trade practices. In particular, under federal and state financial privacy laws and regulations, we must provide notice to our customers of our policies on sharing non-public information with third parties, must provide advance notice of any changes to our privacy policies and, with limited exceptions, must give consumers the right to prevent sharing of their non-public personal information with unaffiliated third parties. Further, the growth of online commerce could result in more stringent consumer protection laws that impose additional compliance burdens on us. Today, there is an increasing number of laws specifically directed at the conduct of business on the Internet. Moreover, due to the increasing use of the Internet, many additional laws and regulations relating to the Internet are being debated at the state and federal levels. These laws and regulations could cover issues such as freedom of expression, pricing, user privacy, fraud, quality of products and services, taxation, advertising, intellectual property rights and information security. Applicability of existing laws to the Internet relating to issues such as property ownership, copyrights and other intellectual property issues, taxation, libel, obscenity and personal privacy could also harm our business. For example, U.S. and international laws regulate our ability to use customer information and to develop, buy and sell mailing lists. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet. The applicability and reach of those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, are uncertain. The restrictions imposed by and cost of complying with current and possible future laws and regulations related to our business could harm our future operating results. In addition, because our website is accessible over the Internet in multiple states and other countries, we may be subject to their laws and regulations or may be required to qualify to do business in those locations. Our failure to qualify in a state or country where we are required to do so could subject us to taxes and penalties and we could be subject to legal actions and liability in those jurisdictions. The restrictions or penalties imposed by, and costs of complying with, these laws and regulations could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to enforce contracts and other obligations in states and countries in which we are not qualified to do business could be hampered, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We were subject to sales and use tax audits by various states as of 2005, an Internal Revenue Service audit as of 2004 and various state income and franchise tax audits as of 2001. Although any adverse results for completed audits have not been material to us, there is a risk that federal, state and local jurisdictions may challenge the characterization of certain transactions and assess additional amounts, including interest and penalties. In the event that transactions are challenged by tax authorities, the review process would divert management attention and resources and we may incur substantial costs. Tax authorities in a number of states, as well as a Congressional advisory commission, are currently reviewing the appropriate tax treatment of companies engaged in online commerce, and new state tax regulations may subject us to additional state sales and income taxes, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flows and results of operations. Further, there is a possibility that we may be subject to significant fines or other payments for any past failures to comply with these requirements. 27 Table of Contents Laws or regulations relating to privacy and data protection may adversely affect the growth of our online business or our marketing efforts. We are subject to increasing regulation relating to privacy and the use of personal user information. For example, we are subject to various telemarketing laws that regulate the manner in which we may solicit future customers. Such regulations, along with increased governmental or private enforcement, may increase the cost of growing our business. In addition, several states have proposed legislation that would limit the uses of personal, user information gathered online or require online services to establish privacy policies. The Federal Trade Commission has adopted regulations regarding the collection and use of personal identifying information obtained from children under 13 years of age. Bills proposed in Congress would extend online privacy protections to adults. Moreover, proposed legislation in the United States and existing laws in other countries require companies to establish procedures to notify users of privacy and security policies, obtain consent from users for collection and use of personal information, and/or provide users with the ability to access, correct and delete personal information stored by companies. These data protection regulations and enforcement efforts may restrict our ability to collect demographic and personal information from users, which could be costly or harm our marketing efforts. Further, any violation of privacy or data protection laws and regulations may subject us to fines, penalties and damages and may otherwise have material adverse effect on our financial condition. The State of California enacted a law that requires any company that does business in California and possesses computerized data, in unencrypted form, containing certain personal information about California residents to provide prompt notice to such residents if that personal information was, or is reasonably believed to have been, obtained by an unauthorized person such as a computer hacker. The law defines personal information as an individual’s name together with one or more of that individual’s social security number, driver’s license number, California identification card number, credit card number, debit card number, or bank account information, including any necessary passwords or access codes. As our customers, including California residents, generally provide information to us that is covered by this definition of personal information in connection with their purchases via our website, our business will be affected by this new law. As a result, we will need to ensure that all computerized data containing the previously-described personal information is sufficiently encrypted or that we have implemented appropriate measures to detect unauthorized access to our data. These measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access to the previously described personal information. In the event of an unauthorized access, we are required to notify our California customers of any such access to the extent it involves their personal information. Such measures will likely increase the costs of doing business and, if we fail to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by the new law, we could be subject to potential claims for damages and other remedies available to California residents whose information was improperly accessed or, under certain circumstances, the State of California could seek to enjoin our online operations until appropriate corrective actions have been taken. While we intend to comply fully with this new law, we may not be successful in avoiding all potential liability or disruption of business resulting from this law. If we were required to pay any significant amount of money in satisfaction of claims under this new law, or any similar law enacted by another jurisdiction, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our operating results could be adversely affected. Further, complying with the applicable notice requirements in the event of a security breach could result in significant costs. We may be subject to liability for the content that we publish. As a publisher of catalogs and online content, we face potential liability for intellectual property infringement and other claims based on the information and other content contained in our catalogs and website. In the past, parties have brought these types of claims and sometimes successfully litigated them against online services. If we incur liability for our catalog or online content, our financial condition could be affected adversely. 28 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law make any change in control more difficult. This could affect our stock price adversely. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that may delay or prevent a change in control, discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our common stock and affect adversely the market price of our common stock and the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock. These provisions include: • the division of our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • prohibiting our stockholders from calling a special meeting of stockholders; • our ability to issue additional shares of our common stock or preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with two-thirds stockholder approval; and • advance notice requirements for raising matters of business or making nominations at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for five years unless the holder’s acquisition of our common stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. In May 2006, we adopted a stockholder rights plan that could discourage, delay or prevent an acquisition of the Company under certain circumstances. Subject to some exceptions, the rights plan provides for preferred stock purchase rights attached to each share of our common stock which will cause substantial dilution to a person or group acquiring 15% or more of our common stock if the acquisition is not approved by our board of directors. In connection with the adoption of the rights plan, our board of directors declared a dividend of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock on June 2, 2006. Under the terms of the rights plan, each right represent the right, under certain circumstances to purchase from the Company 1/1000th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $50.00 per 1/1000th of a Preferred Share, subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments. The rights become exercisable ten days following a public announcement that a person or group of affiliated or associated persons has acquired, or obtained the right to acquire, beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our common stock or ten business days (or such later date as may be determined by action of our board of directors prior to such time as any person or group of affiliated persons becomes an acquiring person) following the commencement or announcement of an intention to make a tender offer or exchange offer the consummation of which would result in the beneficial ownership by a person or group of 15% or more of our common stock. Upon exercise of the rights, the preferred stock is also entitled to preferential dividend and liquidation payments protected by customary anti-dilution provisions. We adopted an amendment to the rights plan on December 13, 2007, which creates limited exceptions to the rights plan’s 15% beneficial ownership limit. Under these exceptions, individuals and entities affiliated with Glenhill Advisors, LLC, or Glenhill, and individuals and entities affiliated with Sun Capital Securities, LLC, or Sun, will be subject to a 17.5% beneficial ownership limit so long as they report or are required to report their ownership on Schedule 13G or Schedule 13D under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and their Schedule 13G or Schedule 13D does not state or is not required to state any present intention to hold such common stock with the purpose or effect of changing or influencing the control of the company, nor in connection with or as a participant in any transaction having such purpose or effect. 29 Table of Contents On February 12, 2009, we adopted a second amendment to the rights plan that is intended to provide stockholders with greater flexibility to confer with one another and make joint proposals to acquire the Company in the certain circumstances described in the second amendment without triggering the rights. First, the second amendment provides that stockholders may enter into an agreement, arrangement or understanding with one another relating to making a joint proposal to acquire the Company without being treated as a group for purposes of applying the 15% or 17.5% threshold, as the case may be. For the exception created by the second amendment to be applicable, the agreement, understanding or arrangement must relate solely to their making a proposal on or before April 30, 2009, which: is addressed to the Board of Directors of the Company or a committee of the Board in response to a solicitation for such proposals by the Board or such committee; and is for a negotiated transaction pursuant to which the bidding entities and individuals would acquire all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or shares of capital stock, which taken together with shares already held by the bidders represent greater than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company. Secondly, the second amendment creates limited exceptions to the requirement that Glenhill and Sun must hold their shares as passive investors if they hold more than 15% but less than 17.5% of the outstanding common stock. Under the second amendment, neither Glenhill nor Sun will not lose the right to hold more than 15% but less than 17.5% of the outstanding common stock without triggering the rights by virtue of filing a Schedule 13D amendment that discloses that it intends to make, or has made, a proposal for a negotiated transaction to the Board of Directors of the Company or a committee of the Board, so long as: the proposal is made on or before April 30, 2009 in response to a solicitation by the Board of Directors of the Company or a committee of the Board; and the proposal calls for Glenhill or Sun, separately or together with one or more other entities or individuals, to acquire all or substantially all of the Company’s assets or shares of capital stock of the Company, which taken together with shares already held by individual or entity represent greater than 50% of the outstanding voting securities of the Company. In addition, if we were the surviving corporation in a merger with an acquiring person or any affiliate or associate of an acquiring person and our common stock was not changed or exchanged, each holder of a right, other than rights that are or were acquired or beneficially owned by the acquiring person (which rights will thereafter be void), will thereafter have the right to receive upon exercise that number of shares of common shares having a market value of two times the then current purchase price of one right. In the event that, after a person has become an acquiring person, we were acquired in a merger or other business combination transaction or more than 50% of its assets or earning power were sold, each holder of a right will thereafter have the right to receive, upon the exercise thereof at the then current purchase price of the right, that number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company which at the time of such transaction would have a market value of two times the then current purchase price of one right. The rights plan has a term of 10 years. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile and you may lose all or a part of your investment. Our common stock had not been publicly traded prior to our initial public offering, which was completed in July 2004, and an active trading market may not be sustained. The market price of our common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations. Since our initial public offering to March 24, 2009, our stock price has traded from a low of $0.31 to a high of $19.45. It is possible that in some future periods our results of operations may be below the expectations of securities analysts who may choose to follow our common stock, if any, and investors. If this occurs, our stock price may decline. Furthermore, if our stock price does not meet the minimum requirements of NASDAQ we may be delisted. Factors that could affect our stock price include the following: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ recommendations or estimates, if any, of our financial performance; • publication of research reports by analysts, if any; 30 Table of Contents • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • announcements by us, our competitors or other retailers; • additions or departures of key personnel; • the trading volume of our common stock in the public market; • general economic conditions; • financial market conditions; • changes in accounting principles or policies, including the requirement to treat stock option grants as an operating expense; • acts of terrorism; and • war or threats of war. In addition, the stock markets have experienced significant price and trading volume fluctuations, and the market prices of retail companies in particular have been extremely volatile and have recently experienced sharp share price and trading volume changes. These broad market fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. Our operating and financial performance in any given period might not meet the guidance that we have provided to the public. From time to time in the future, we may provide public guidance on our expected operating and financial results for future periods. Although we believe that this guidance provides investors and analysts with a better understanding of management’s expectations for the future and is useful to our stockholders and potential stockholders, such guidance is comprised of forward-looking statements subject to the risks and uncertainties described in this report and in our other public filings and public statements. Our guidance may not always be accurate. If, in the future, our operating or financial results for a particular period do not meet our guidance or the expectations of investment analysts or if we reduce our guidance for future periods, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, you are not likely to receive any dividends from us on our common stock for the foreseeable future. Our process of exploring strategic alternatives may not be successful. In February 2009, we announced the engagement of Thomas Weisel Partners LLC, an investment banking firm to assist in the review of strategic alternatives. There can be no assurance that the review of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction, or that the benefits of any strategic alternative pursued will in fact be realized. The pendency of this process may create uncertainties with current and potential customers, employees, suppliers and business partners. In addition, the market price of our stock may be volatile as we explore strategic alternatives, and volatility may persist or be increased if and when a decision to pursue an alternative is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. 31 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 