RISK FACTORS A number of factors (risk factors) affect Prudential's operating results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading price of its shares. The risk factors mentioned below should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties. The information given is as of the date of this report, is not updated, and any forward-looking statements are made subject to the reservations specified below under "Forward-Looking Statements". Prudential's businesses are inherently subject to market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Prudential's businesses are inherently subject to market fluctuations and general economic conditions. Uncertain or negative trends in international economic and investment climates which have adversely affected Prudential's business and profitability could be repeated, or prolonged, or could worsen. The adverse effects of such trends, including the unprecedented market dislocation across asset classes and geographical markets witnessed since mid-2008, have been and would be felt principally through the following: •reduced investment returns could impair its ability to write significant volumes of new business as a result of market volatility, which would have a negative impact on Prudential's assets under management and profit; •higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads resulting in realized and unrealized credit losses, as recently experienced when illiquidity and credit spreads reached all-time highs; •Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a variety of transactions, including derivative transactions, with counterparties. Failure of any of these counterparties to discharge their obligations, or where adequate collateral is not in place, could have an adverse impact on Prudential's results; and •in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the value at which financial instruments can be realized is highly subjective. Processes to ascertain value and estimates of value require substantial elements of judgment, assumptions and estimates (which may change over time). Increased illiquidity also adds to uncertainty over the accessibility of financial resources and may reduce capital resources as valuations decline. In the United Kingdom, a significant part of Prudential's shareholders' profit is related to bonuses for policyholders declared on its with-profits products, which are broadly based on historic and current rates of return on equity, real estate and fixed income securities, as well as Prudential's expectations of future investment returns. For all lines of business, fluctuations in financial risk factors will affect the Company's results. In 2008, Prudential has had to operate against a challenging background of unprecedented volatility in capital and equity markets, interest rates and widespread economic uncertainty. In the United States, fluctuations in interest rates can affect results from Jackson National Life Insurance Company ("Jackson"), which has a significant spread-based business and where the majority of investments are in fixed-income securities. The spread is the difference between the rate of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the policyholders' liabilities and the amounts that are credited to policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject to minimum crediting rates. During 2008, the US financial services industry faced an unprecedented array of challenges: the S&P 500 index fell by 38.5 per cent, government interest rates fell to historic lows, and global markets experienced a significant increase in volatility. In addition, credit markets seized and global credit spreads widened to historic levels. These factors have significantly contributed to the substantial increases in Jackson's unrealized losses. Jackson also writes a significant amount of variable annuities that offer capital or income protection guarantees. There could be unforeseen market circumstances where the derivatives 5 that it enters into to hedge its market risks may not fully offset its losses, and any cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will also affect the Company's results. For some non unit-linked products, in particular those written in some of the Group's Asian operations, it may not be possible to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly match those relating to policyholder liabilities. This is particularly true in those countries where bond markets are not developed and in certain markets such as Taiwan where regulated surrender values are set by regulators with reference to the interest rate environment prevailing at time of policy issue. This results in a mismatch due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable duration. This residual asset/liability mismatch risk can be managed but not eliminated. Where interest rates in these markets remain lower than interest rates used to calculate surrender values over a sustained period this could have an adverse impact on the Group's reported profit. Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity of its businesses. Due to the geographical diversity of Prudential's businesses, it is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations. Prudential's international operations in the United States and Asia, which represent a significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders' funds, generally write policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency. Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant fluctuations in Prudential's consolidated financial statements upon translation of results into pounds sterling. The currency exposure relating to the translation of reported earnings is not separately managed. Consequently, this could impact on the Group's gearing ratios (defined as debt over debt plus shareholders' funds). The impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as a component within the statement of changes in equity. Prudential conducts its businesses subject to regulation and associated regulatory risks, including the effects of changes in the laws, regulations, policies and interpretations and any accounting standards in the markets in which it operates. Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory interpretation applying to companies in the financial services and insurance industries in any of the markets in which Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudential's product range, distribution channels, capital requirements and, consequently, reported results and financing requirements. For instance, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential operates may change the level of capital required to be held by individual businesses. Also these changes could include possible changes in the regulatory framework for pension arrangements and policies, the regulation of selling practices and solvency requirements. Furthermore, as a result of the recent interventions by governments in response to global economic conditions, it is widely expected that there will be a substantial increase in government regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the possibility of higher capital requirements, restrictions on certain types of transaction structure, and enhanced supervisory powers. The current EU Insurance Groups Directive ("IGD") requires European financial services groups to demonstrate net aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency requirements at the Group level in respect of shareholder-owned entities. The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential needs to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital at the Group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some of its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, short-term movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest rates, deterioration in credit quality and equity markets. In addition, changes in the local regulatory environment of countries where this is deemed equivalent to the EU could affect the calculation of the Group's solvency position. The application of Solvency II, the new European Union solvency framework for insurers, to international groups is still unclear and there is 6 a risk of inconsistent application in different member states which may place Prudential at a competitive disadvantage to other European and non-European financial services groups. Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created investor compensation schemes that require mandatory contributions from market participants in some instances in the event of a failure of a market participant. As a major participant in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise where Prudential, along with other companies, may be required to make additional material contributions. The Group's accounts are prepared in accordance with current international financial reporting standards ("IFRS") applicable to the insurance industry. The International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") introduced a framework that it described as Phase I that permitted insurers to continue to use the statutory basis of accounting that existed in their jurisdictions prior to January 2005. The IASB has published proposals in its Phase II discussion paper that would introduce significant changes to the statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare accounts according to IFRS. It is uncertain in what form the proposals in the discussion paper will be taken forward into a definitive IFRS and when such changes might take effect. European Embedded Value ("EEV") basis results are published as supplementary information for Prudential's announcements to the UK Listing Authority and in its UK Annual Report. The EEV basis is a value based reporting method for Prudential's long-term business which is used by market analysts and which underpins a significant part of the key performance indicators used by the Company's management for both internal and external reporting purposes. In June 2008, in an effort to improve still further the consistency and transparency of embedded value reporting, the Chief Financial Officers' ("CFO") Forum published the initial Market Consistent Embedded Value ("MCEV") Principles. The CFO Forum announced on 19 December, 2008, that it would be reviewing the Principles given the current turbulent markets. They acknowledged that the MCEV principles were designed during a period of relatively stable market conditions and their application could, in turbulent markets, lead to misleading results. The review may lead to changes to the published MCEV Principles or the issuance of guidance. On completion of this review, Prudential will consider its approach to them. If Prudential adopts the new Principles, this will result in a restatement of reported EEV results and change the reporting basis of future results. The resolution of several issues affecting the financial services industry could have a negative impact on Prudential's reported results or on its reputation or on its relations with current and potential customers. Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both in the United Kingdom and internationally. This could be a review of business sold in the past under previously acceptable market practices at the time such as the requirement in the United Kingdom to provide redress to certain past purchasers of pension and mortgage endowment policies, changes to the tax regime affecting products and regulatory reviews on products sold and industry practices, including in the latter case businesses it has closed. Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the United States and the United Kingdom are moving towards a regime based on principles-based regulation which brings an element of uncertainty. These regulators are increasingly interested in the approach that product providers use to select third-party distributors. In some case product providers can be held responsible for the deficiencies of third-party distributors. In the United States, federal and state regulators have focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to, the mutual fund, fixed index and variable annuity and insurance product industries. This includes new regulations in respect of the suitability of broker-dealers' sales of certain 7 products. As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms. In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different speeds, driven by a combination of global factors and local considerations. There is a risk that new requirements are retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction. Litigation and disputes may adversely affect Prudential's profitability and financial condition. Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions and disputes in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment management and other business operations. These legal actions and disputes may relate to aspects of Prudential's businesses and operations that are specific to Prudential, or that are common to companies that operate in Prudential's markets. Legal actions and disputes may arise under contracts, regulations or from a course of conduct taken by Prudential, and may be class actions. Although Prudential believes that it has adequately provisioned in all material aspects for the costs of litigation and regulatory matters, no assurance can be provided that such provisions are sufficient. Given the large or indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an adverse effect on Prudential's results of operation or cash flows. Prudential's businesses are conducted in highly competitive environments with developing demographic trends and Prudential's continued profitability depends on its management's ability to respond to these pressures and trends. The markets for financial services in the United Kingdom, United States and Asia are highly competitive, with several factors affecting Prudential's ability to sell its products and its continued profitability, including price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and product quality, brand strength and name recognition, investment management performance, historical bonus levels, developing demographic trends and customer appetite for certain savings products. In some of its markets Prudential faces competitors that are larger, have greater financial resources or a greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios. Further, heightened competition for talented and skilled employees with local experience, particularly in Asia, may limit the Group's potential to grow its business as quickly as planned. Within the United Kingdom, Prudential's principal competitors in the life insurance market include many of the major retail financial services companies including, in particular, Aviva, Legal & General, Lloyds Banking Group and Standard Life. Jackson's competitors in the United States include major stock and mutual insurance companies, mutual fund organizations, banks and other financial services companies such as AIG, AXA, Hartford, Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF. In Asia, the Group's main regional competitors are international financial companies, including AIG, Allianz, AXA, ING and Manulife. In a number of markets, local companies have a very significant market presence. Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors. Prudential's ability to generate an appropriate return depends significantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures. 8 Downgrades in Prudential's financial strength and credit ratings could significantly impact its competitive position and hurt its relationships with creditors or trading counterparties. Prudential's financial strength and credit ratings, which are used by the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder obligations, are an important factor affecting public confidence in most of Prudential's products, and as a result its competitiveness. Changes in methodologies and criteria used by rating agencies could result in downgrades that do not reflect changes in the general economic conditions or Prudential's financial condition. Downgrades in Prudential's ratings could have an adverse effect on its ability to market products and retain current policyholders. In addition, the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure Prudential's ability to meet its contractual obligations. As at March 31, 2009 Prudential's long-term senior debt is rated as A2 (negative outlook) by Moody's, A+ (stable outlook) by Standard & Poor's and A+ (negative outlook) by Fitch. Prudential's short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moody's, A-1 by Standard & Poor's and F1+ by Fitch. Prudential Assurance Company's (PAC's) financial strength is rated Aa2 (negative outlook) by Moody's, AA+ (negative outlook) by Standard & Poor's and AA+ (negative outlook) by Fitch. Jackson's financial strength is rated A1 (negative outlook) by Moody's, AA (stable outlook) by Standard & Poor's and AA (negative outlook) by Fitch. Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent in Prudential's business could have a negative impact on its results of operations. Operational risks are present in all of Prudential's businesses, including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems and human error or from external events. Prudential's business is dependent on processing a large number of complex transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes. In addition, Prudential outsources several operations, including in the United Kingdom a significant part of its back office and customer-facing functions as well as a number of IT functions. In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing performance of its outsourcing partners. Further, because of the long-term nature of much of Prudential's business, accurate records have to be maintained for significant periods. Prudential's systems and processes incorporate controls which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated with its activities. For example, any weakness in the administration systems or actuarial reserving processes could have an impact on its results of operations during the effective period. Prudential has not experienced or identified any operational risks in its systems or processes during 2008 which have subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, a significant negative impact on its results of operations. Adverse experience against the assumptions used in pricing products and reporting business results could significantly affect Prudential's results of operations. Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for reporting the results of its long-term business operations. For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant for its United Kingdom annuity business. In exchange for a premium equal to the capital value of their accumulated pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for as long as they are alive. Prudential conducts rigorous research into longevity risk, using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio. As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential United Kingdom assumes that current rates of mortality continuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations ("CMI") medium cohort table projections 9 (as published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries). If mortality improvement rates significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudential's results of operations could be adversely affected. A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes about future expected levels of the rates of early termination of products by its customers (persistency). This is particularly relevant to its lines of business other than its United Kingdom annuity business. Prudential's persistency assumptions reflect recent past experience for each relevant line of business. Any expected deterioration in future persistency is also reflected in the assumption. If actual levels of future persistency are significantly different from those assumed, Prudential's results of operations could be adversely affected. In common with other industry participants, the profitability of the Group's businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender rates, investment performance, unit cost of administration and new business acquisition expense. As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and dividend payments. Prudential's insurance and investment management operations are generally conducted through direct and indirect subsidiaries. As a holding company, Prudential's principal sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries, shareholder-backed funds, the shareholder transfer from Prudential's long-term funds and any amounts that may be raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial paper. Certain of the subsidiaries are regulated and therefore have restrictions that can limit the payment of dividends, which in some circumstances could limit the Group's ability to pay dividends to shareholders. Prudential operates in a number of markets through joint ventures and other arrangements with third parties. These arrangements involve certain risks that Prudential does not face with respect to its consolidated subsidiaries. Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local regulation to operate, through joint ventures. Prudential's ability to exercise management control over its joint venture operations and its investment in them depends on the terms of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of control among, and continued co-operation between, the joint venture participants. Prudential may also face financial or other exposure in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails to meet its obligations under the joint venture or encounters financial difficulty. In addition, a significant proportion of the Group's product distribution is carried out through arrangements with third parties not controlled by Prudential and is dependent upon continuation of these relationships. A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution arrangements could affect Prudential's results of operations. Prudential's Articles of Association contain an exclusive jurisdiction provision. Under Prudential's Articles of Association, certain legal proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales. This applies to legal proceedings between a shareholder (in its capacity as such) against Prudential and/or its directors and/or its professional service providers. It also applies to legal proceedings between Prudential and its directors and/or Prudential and Prudential's professional service providers that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the shareholder and such professional service provider. This provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights. 10 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to certain of Prudential's plans and its current goals and expectations relating to its future financial condition, performance, results, strategy and objectives. Statements containing the words "believes", "intends", "expects", "plans", "seeks" and "anticipates", and words of similar meaning, are forward-looking. By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events and circumstances which are beyond Prudential's control including among other things, economic and business conditions in the countries in which Prudential operates, market related risks such as fluctuations in interest rates and exchange rates, and the performance of financial markets generally; the policies and actions of regulatory authorities, the impact of competition, inflation, and deflation; experience in particular with regard to mortality and morbidity trends, lapse rates and policy renewal rates; the timing, impact and other uncertainties of future acquisitions or combinations within relevant industries; the impact of changes in capital, solvency or accounting standards, and tax and other legislation and regulations in the jurisdictions in which Prudential and its affiliates operate; and the impact of legal actions and disputes, together with other factors discussed in "Risk Factors". This may for example result in changes to assumptions used for determining results of operations or re-estimations of reserves for future policy benefits. As a result, Prudential's actual future financial condition, performance and results may differ materially from the plans, goals, and expectations set forth in Prudential's forward-looking statements. In particular, the following are forward-looking in nature: •certain statements in Item 4, "Information on the Company" with regard to strategy and management objectives, trends in market shares, prices, market standing and product volumes and the effects of changes or prospective changes in regulation, and •certain statements in Item 5, "Operating and Financial Review and Prospects" with regard to trends in results, prices, volumes, operations, margins, overall market trends, risk management and exchange rates and with regard to the effects of changes or prospective changes in regulation. Prudential may also make or disclose written and/or oral forward-looking statements in reports filed or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Prudential's annual report and accounts to shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars, registration statements and prospectuses, press releases and other written materials and in oral statements made by directors, officers or employees of Prudential to third parties, including financial analysts. Prudential undertakes no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report or any other forward-looking statements it may make. EEV BASIS AND NEW BUSINESS RESULTS In addition to IFRS basis results, the Group's filings with the UK Listing Authority and Group Annual Reports include reporting by Key Performance Indicators ("KPIs"). These include results prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value ("EEV") Principles and Guidance issued by the Chief Financial Officers' ("CFO") Forum of European Insurance Companies, and New Business measures. The EEV basis is a value based method of reporting in that it reflects the change in the value of in-force long-term business over the accounting period. This value is called the shareholders' funds on the EEV basis which, at a given point in time, is the value of future cash flows expected to arise from the current book of long-term insurance business plus the net worth (based on statutory solvency capital (or economic capital where higher) and unencumbered capital) of the company. EEV basis results are published semi-annually by the Company in the UK Market. The EEV basis results also include disclosures regarding the movements in free surplus (the excess of available over required capital) for 11 the year as a result of, among other things, the generation of free surplus from the in-force operations, the investment of free surplus in new business and investment market-related movements. New Business results are published quarterly and are provided as an indicative volume measure of transactions undertaken in the reporting period that have the potential to generate profits for shareholders. The amounts are not, and are not intended to be, reflective of premium income recorded in the IFRS income statement. The Company's KPIs also include IFRS basis operating profit based on longer-term investment returns as explained in Item 5. 12 