ITEM 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information included in this Annual Report and our other SEC filings in considering our business and prospects. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not disclosed or not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. The occurrence of any of the following risks could harm our business, financial condition or results of operations. Regulatory Risks The Need to Obtain Regulatory Approvals and Respond to Changes in Regulatory Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Business. Many of our proposed and existing products are subject to regulation by the FDA and other governmental or public health agencies. In particular, we are subject to strict governmental controls on the development, manufacture, labeling, distribution and marketing of our products. In addition, we are often required to obtain approval or registration with foreign governments or regulatory bodies before we can import and sell our products in foreign countries. The process of obtaining required approvals or clearances from governmental or public health agencies can involve lengthy and detailed laboratory testing, human clinical trials, sampling activities and other costly, time-consuming procedures. These approvals can require the submission of a large amount of clinical data which may require significant time to obtain. It is also possible that a product will not perform at a level needed to generate the clinical data required to obtain an approval or clearance. The submission of an application to the FDA or other international regulatory authority does not guarantee that an approval or clearance to market the product will be received. Each authority may impose its own requirements and delay or refuse to grant approval or clearance, even though a product has been approved in another country or by another agency. Moreover, the approval or clearance process for a new product can be complex and lengthy. This time span increases our costs to develop new products as well as the risk that we will not succeed in introducing or selling them in the United States or other countries. We are in the process of conducting clinical studies to support an application for FDA approval of our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test for sale in the United States OTC market and our OraQuick® HCV test for professional use. There can be no assurance that these clinical trials will generate sufficient data to support FDA approval of either product or that FDA approval will be obtained. Failure to obtain or any delay in obtaining FDA approval for either product could significantly reduce future revenues, increase our costs and adversely affect our financial performance. Newly promulgated or changed regulations could also require us to undergo additional trials or procedures, or could make it impractical or impossible for us to market our products for certain uses, in certain markets, or at all. For example, during 2004 SAMHSA, which is part of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, issued proposed regulations for the use of oral fluid drug testing for federal workers. Although the SAMHSA regulations have been withdrawn, if and when they are issued in final form, they could permit us to market and sell our oral fluid drug tests for use with federal workers only if certain modifications are made to our products. If we are unable to make these modifications, or if the modifications require significant time to develop, our ability to sell our oral fluid drug testing products in that market could be limited. In addition, the extent to which 19 Table of Contents the final SAMHSA regulations permit the sale of our oral fluid drug tests for use with federal workers may influence whether customers in the workplace, criminal justice or other unregulated markets use our products. The regulations in some states may restrict our ability to sell products in those states. For example, certain states restrict or do not allow the testing of oral fluid for drugs of abuse or the rapid, point-of-care testing for HIV. While we intend to work with state legislators and regulators to remove or modify any applicable restrictions, there is no guarantee we will be successful in these efforts. In addition, all in vitro diagnostic products that are to be sold in the EU must bear the CE mark indicating conformance with the essential requirements of the IVDD. We are not permitted to sell our products in the EU without a CE mark, which could lead to the termination of strategic alliances and agreements for sales of those products in the EU. We have obtained the CE mark for several of our existing products. We also intend to CE mark certain of our future products and are not aware of any material reason why we will be unable to do so. However, there can be no assurance that compliance with all provisions of the IVDD will be demonstrated and the CE mark will be obtained or maintained for all products that we desire to sell in the EU. The Inability to Extend the Shelf Life of Our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 Test Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The shelf life of a product is the period of time from the date of manufacture during which the product is expected to perform in accordance with its specifications and labeling. In order to successfully sell our products, they need to have a shelf life that is long enough to cover the time required to distribute the product to a customer and provide the customer with a reasonable period to use that product. Where a product has a short shelf life, our ability to sell that product may be adversely affected. In order to extend the shelf life, we may be required to submit real time stability data supporting such an extension to the FDA for approval. Our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test currently has a shelf life of six months. While this shelf life has not prevented us from selling into the public health and hospital markets in the United States, it has limited our ability to sell that test internationally. We also believe a shelf life of at least 12 months will be required to sell the OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test successfully into the United States OTC market. We are working to extend the shelf life of our OraQuick ADVANCE® test. However, there can be no assurance that we will be successful in obtaining such an extension or its approval by the FDA or regulatory authorities in foreign countries, or that such extension will occur within a time frame consistent with our objectives. If we are unsuccessful or delayed in obtaining a shelf life extension, our ability to sell the OraQuick® test may be adversely affected and we may not be able to sell it successfully into the United States OTC market. Failure to Comply With FDA or Other Regulatory Requirements May Require Us to Suspend Production of Our Products or Institute a Recall Which Could Result in Higher Costs and a Loss of Revenues. We can manufacture and sell many of our products, both in the United States and internationally, only if we comply with regulations of government agencies such as the FDA. We have implemented quality and other systems that are intended to comply with applicable regulations. Although we believe that we have adequate processes in place to ensure compliance with these requirements, the FDA or other regulatory bodies could force us to stop manufacturing, selling or exporting our products if it concludes that we are out of compliance with applicable regulations. The FDA and other regulatory bodies could also require us to recall products if we fail to comply with applicable regulations, which could force us to stop manufacturing such products. Such actions by the FDA could adversely affect our revenues. See the Section entitled “Government Regulation” in Item 1 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of applicable regulatory requirements. 20 Table of Contents We Are Subject to Numerous Government Regulations in Addition to FDA Requirements, Which Could Increase Our Costs or Affect Our Operations. In addition to FDA and other regulations described previously, numerous laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control, disposal of hazardous substances and labor or employment practices impact our business operations. Compliance with these laws or any new or changed laws regulating our business could result in substantial costs. Because of the number and extent of the laws and regulations affecting our industry, and the number of governmental agencies whose actions could affect our operations, it is impossible to reliably predict the full nature and impact of these requirements. To the extent the costs and procedures associated with complying with these laws and requirements are substantial or it is determined that we do not comply, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Industry, Business and Strategy Our Ability to Sell Products Could be Affected by Competition From New and Existing Diagnostic Products and by Treatments or Other Non-Diagnostic Products Which May be Developed. The diagnostic industry is focused on the testing of biological specimens in a laboratory or at the point of care and is highly competitive and rapidly changing. Many of our principal competitors have considerably greater financial, technical and marketing resources. As new products enter the market, our products may become obsolete or a competitor’s products may be more effective or more effectively marketed and sold than ours. If we fail to maintain and enhance our competitive position, our customers may decide to use products developed by competitors which could result in a loss of revenues. We also face competition from products which may be sold at a lower price. To the extent this competition arises, customers may choose to buy lower cost products from third parties or we may be forced to sell our products at a lower price, both of which could result in a loss of revenues or a lower gross margin contribution from the sale of our products. In addition, the development and commercialization of products outside of the diagnostics industry could adversely affect sales of our product. For example, the development of a safe and effective vaccine to prevent HIV or preventative treatments for other diseases or conditions that our products are designed to detect, could reduce, or eventually eliminate, the demand for our HIV or other diagnostic products and thereby result in a loss of revenues. Our Research, Development and Commercialization Efforts May Not Succeed and Our Competitors May Develop and Commercialize More Effective or Successful Diagnostic Products. In order to remain competitive, we must regularly commit substantial resources to research and development and the commercialization of new products. The research and development process generally takes a significant amount of time from inception to commercial product launch. This process is conducted in various stages. During each stage there is a substantial risk that we will not achieve our goals on a timely basis, or at all, and we may have to abandon a product in which we have invested substantial amounts. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, we incurred $14.1 million, $8.6 million and $5.3 million, respectively, in research and development expenses. We expect to continue to incur significant costs from our research and development activities. Successful products require significant development and investment, including testing, to demonstrate their cost-effectiveness or other benefits prior to commercialization. In addition, regulatory approval must be obtained 21 Table of Contents before most products may be sold. Additional development efforts on these products will be required before any regulatory authority will review them. Regulatory authorities may not approve these products for commercial sale. In addition, even if a product is developed and all applicable regulatory approvals are obtained, there may be little or no market for the product. Accordingly, if we fail to develop or gain commercial acceptance for our products, or if competitors develop more effective products or a greater number of successful new products, customers may decide to use products developed by our competitors. This would result in a loss of revenues and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. If We Lose Our Key Personnel or Are Unable to Attract and Retain Qualified Personnel as Necessary, Our Business Could be Harmed. Our success will depend to a large extent upon the contributions of our executive officers, management and sales, marketing, operations and scientific staff. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among medical products businesses. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to effectively manufacture, sell and market our products, to meet the demands of our strategic partners in a timely fashion, or to support internal research and development programs. Although we believe we will be successful in attracting and retaining qualified personnel, competition for experienced scientists and other personnel from numerous companies and academic and other research institutions may limit our ability to do so on acceptable terms. Future Acquisitions or Investments Could Disrupt Our Ongoing Business, Distract Our Management, Increase Our Expenses and Adversely Affect Our Business. We may consider strategic acquisitions or investments as a way to expand our business in the future. These activities, and their impact on our business, are subject to the following risk factors: • Suitable acquisitions or investments may not be found or consummated on terms or schedules that are satisfactory to us; • We may be unable to successfully integrate an acquired company’s personnel, assets, management systems and technology into our business; • Acquisitions may require substantial expense and management time and could disrupt our business; • An acquisition and subsequent integration activities may require greater capital resources than originally anticipated at the time of acquisition; • An acquisition may result in the incurrence of unexpected expenses, the dilution of our earnings or our existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, or potential losses from undiscovered liabilities not covered by an indemnification from the seller(s) of the acquired business; • An acquisition may result in the loss of existing key personnel or customers or the loss of the acquired company’s key personnel or customers; • The benefits expected to be derived from an acquisition may not materialize and could be affected by numerous factors, such as regulatory developments, general economic conditions and increased competition; and • An acquisition of a foreign business may involve additional risks, including, but not limited to, foreign currency exposure, liability under foreign laws or regulations and not being able to successfully assimilate differences in foreign business practices or overcome language or cultural barriers. The occurrence of one or more of the above or other factors may prevent us from achieving all or a significant part of the benefits expected from an acquisition or investment. This may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and ability to grow our business or otherwise achieve our financial or strategic objectives. 22 Table of Contents Our Revenues Could be Affected by Third-Party Reimbursement Policies and Potential Cost Constraints. The end-users of our products are expected to increasingly include hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers. Use of our products could be adversely impacted if these end-users do not receive reimbursement for the cost of our products by their patients’ healthcare insurers or payors. Our net sales could also be adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental or private healthcare payors, including in particular the level of reimbursement for our products. In the United States, healthcare providers such as hospitals and physicians who purchase diagnostic products generally rely on third-party payors, principally private health insurance plans, Medicare and Medicaid, to reimburse all or part of the cost of the product and procedure. We believe that the overall escalating cost of medical products and services has led to, and will continue to lead to, increased pressures on the healthcare industry, both foreign and domestic, to reduce the cost of products and services. Given the efforts to control and reduce healthcare costs in the United States in recent years, currently available levels of reimbursement may not continue to be available in the future for our existing products or products under development. Third-party reimbursement and coverage may not be available or adequate in either the United States or foreign markets, current reimbursement amounts may be decreased in the future and future legislation, and regulation or reimbursement policies of third-party payors may reduce the demand for our products or our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. Increases in Demand for Our Products Could Require Us to Expend Considerable Resources to Meet the Demand or Harm Our Customer Relationships if We are Unable to Meet That Demand. If we experience significant or unexpected increases in the demand for our products, we and our suppliers may not be able to meet that demand without expending additional capital resources. These capital resources could involve the cost of new machinery or even the cost of new manufacturing facilities. This would increase our capital costs, which could adversely affect our earnings. Our suppliers may be unable or unwilling to expend the necessary capital resources or otherwise expand their capacity. In addition, new manufacturing equipment or facilities may require FDA approval before they can be used to manufacture our products. To the extent we are unable to obtain or are delayed in obtaining such approvals, our ability to meet the demand for our products could be adversely affected. If we or our suppliers are unable to develop necessary manufacturing capabilities in a timely manner, our sales could be adversely affected. Failure to cost-effectively increase production volumes, if required, or lower than anticipated yields or production problems encountered as a result of changes that we or our suppliers make in our manufacturing processes to meet increased demand, could result in shipment delays or interruptions and increased manufacturing costs, which could also have a material adverse effect on our revenues and profitability. Our inability to meet customer demand for our products could also harm our customer relationships and impair our reputation within the industry. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Risks Relating to Collaborators Our Failure to Maintain Existing Distribution Channels, or Develop New Distribution Channels, May Result in Lower Revenues. We have marketed many of our products by collaborating with laboratories, diagnostic companies and distributors. Our sales depend to a substantial degree on our ability to sell products to these customers and on the marketing abilities of the companies with which we collaborate. Some of our distributors or other customers may not fulfill their contractual obligations to us. Although we will try to maintain and expand our business with distributors and customers and require that they fulfill their 23 Table of Contents contractual obligations, there can be no assurance that such companies will continue to purchase or distribute our products, maintain historic order volumes or otherwise meet their purchase or other obligations, or that new distribution channels will be available on satisfactory terms. The failure of these distributors or other customers to purchase our products could adversely affect our revenues. We previously distributed a cryosurgical wart removal product in the United States OTC market under a distribution agreement with Prestige Brands. As a result of a dispute with Prestige during 2007, this agreement has terminated and we are currently evaluating alternative strategies for the OTC distribution of this product in the United States and Canada. Sales of our cryosurgical product in the United States OTC market totaled $6.2 million during 2007. Failure or delay in finding a new distributor for this product will adversely affect our ability to replace the revenues previously generated from sales to Prestige. Some of our distributors have also consolidated in recent years and such consolidation has had, and may continue to have, an adverse impact on the level of orders for our products. In addition, some distributors have experienced, and may continue to experience, pressure from their customers to reduce the price of their products and testing services. For example, several of our insurance testing laboratories are facing this pressure and are using lower cost “home brew” insurance testing assays that they have developed internally or purchased from our competitors. This has reduced our assay sales and is expected to lower sales of these products in 2008 and beyond. The Use of Sole Supply Sources or Third Party Suppliers For Critical Components of Our Products Could Adversely Affect Our Business. We currently purchase certain critical components of our products from sole supply sources or other third party suppliers. For example, all of the HIV antigen and nitrocellulose required to make our OraQuick ADVANCE® rapid HIV-1/2 antibody test is purchased from sole source suppliers. In addition, the conjugates used in our MICROPLATE oral fluid drugs of abuse assays are obtained from third party suppliers. If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to supply the required component or if they make changes in the component or do not supply materials meeting our specifications, we may need to find another source and perform additional development work. We may also need to obtain FDA or other regulatory approvals for the use of the alternative component for our products. Completing that development and obtaining such approvals could require significant time and may not occur at all. The availability of critical components from sole supply sources or other third parties could also reduce our control over pricing, quality and timely delivery. These events could either disrupt our ability to manufacture and sell certain of our products, or completely prevent us from doing so or increase our costs. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flows and business. The Unavailability of Certain Products Distributed by a Third Party Could Adversely Affect Sales of Our OraSure® Oral Fluid Collection Device. In testing an oral fluid sample collected with an OraSure® device for HIV-1 in the United States, our customers must use an HIV-1 EIA screening test approved by the FDA for use with our OraSure® device. Where an oral fluid sample screens positive for HIV-1, our customers must then use our oral fluid Western blot HIV-1 confirmatory test, which has also been approved by the FDA for use with our OraSure® device, to confirm that positive indication. Historically, BMX manufactured and sold the only oral fluid HIV-1 EIA screening test that has received FDA approval for use in detecting HIV-1 in an oral fluid specimen collected with our OraSure® collection device. BMX also supplied the HIV-1 antigen used to manufacture our oral fluid Western blot HIV-1 confirmatory test and was the exclusive world-wide distributor of that product. 24 Table of Contents BMX discontinued manufacturing the HIV-1 EIA screening test in 2007. As a result, we intend to seek FDA approval of an alternative HIV-1 EIA screening test for use with oral fluid samples collected with our OraSure® device. On December 31, 2007, the agreements under which BMX supplies the HIV-1 antigen used to manufacture our oral fluid Western blot HIV-1 confirmatory test and distributed that product on an exclusive, world-wide basis, terminated. As a result, we are now supplying this confirmatory test directly to our laboratory customers. Pursuant to the terms of the antigen supply agreement with BMX, we purchased an additional two-year supply of the antigen from BMX so that we can continue to manufacture and sell our oral fluid Western blot test. When this additional two-year supply is combined with our existing inventory of the HIV-1 antigen, we believe we have a sufficient supply of HIV-1 antigen to meet the demand for our Western blot test for the next three to four years. If at some point in the future our customers cannot obtain either an HIV-1 EIA screening test or a Western blot or other HIV-1 confirmatory test that has been approved by the FDA for use with our OraSure® collection device, sales of our OraSure® device could be negatively affected. We May Need Strategic Partners to Assist in Developing and Commercializing Some of Our Diagnostic Products. Although we intend to pursue some product opportunities independently, opportunities that require a significant level of investment for development and commercialization or a distribution network beyond our existing sales force may necessitate involving one or more strategic partners. Our strategy for development and commercialization of products may entail entering into arrangements with distributors or other corporate partners, universities, research laboratories, licensees and others. We may be required to transfer material rights to such strategic partners, licensees and others. While we expect that our current and future partners, licensees and others have and will have an economic motivation to succeed in performing their contractual responsibilities, there is no assurance that they will do so and the amount and timing of resources to be devoted to these activities will be controlled by others. Consequently, there can be no assurance that any revenues or profits will be derived from such arrangements. We may need to collaborate with one or more third parties or find new product distribution channels in order to commercialize our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test in the United States OTC market should we receive approval from the FDA. In order to successfully commercialize our OraQuick® test in the OTC market, we and/or our distributors may need to invest significantly in advertising and promotion and obtain distribution channels to the OTC market. If we are unable to collaborate with a third party having sufficient resources to assist in these efforts or find alternative distribution channels to access the OTC market, we may need to incur significant costs for advertising and promotion, and our ability to maximize our future revenues for this opportunity could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Our Financial Results, Investments, Stock Price, Credit Facilities and Need for Financing We Have a History of Losses Prior to 2005. We achieved our first full years of profitability in 2005, 2006 and 2007. However, as of December 31, 2007, the Company had an accumulated deficit of $96.0 million. Even though we achieved profitability in the past, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain such profitability in the future. Our ability to achieve continued profitability in the future will be dependent upon a number of factors including, without limitation, the following: • Creating market acceptance for and selling increasing volumes of our OraQuick ADVANCE® rapid HIV-1/2 antibody test, Intercept® drug testing product, cryosurgical products and OraSure® collection device; 25 Table of Contents • The degree to which certain of our new products may replace sales of our existing products and the financial impact of that change, including the degree to which our OraQuick ADVANCE® test will replace our OraSure® collection device for HIV-1 testing or sales of our cryosurgical wart removal products in the OTC market will replace sales of our Histofreezer® product to physicians’ offices or other professional markets; • The degree to which our major distributors comply with their contractual obligations, including minimum purchase commitments; • Whether we are able to extend the shelf life of our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test; • Our ability to successfully resolve claims or litigation, including patent infringement litigation; • The level of expenditures we are required to make in order to develop and obtain regulatory approvals for our new products, including our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test for use in the OTC market and an OraQuick® HCV test for professional use; • Whether we are successful in obtaining and maintaining required regulatory approvals and registrations for our new products; • Achieving growth in sales of our wart removal products in the OTC market and selling other products, such as our OraQuick ® HIV-1/2 test, in the OTC market; • Whether we are able to find and obtain FDA approval of a replacement for the BMX HIV-1 EIA screening test for use in connection with oral fluid samples collected with our OraSure® device; • Achieving growth in international markets with our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test, cryosurgical wart removal products and other products; • Changes in the level of competition, such as would occur if larger and financially stronger competitors introduced new or lower priced products to compete with our products; • Changes in economic conditions in domestic or international markets, such as economic downturns, reduced demand, inflation and currency fluctuations; • Failure to achieve our targets for growth in revenues; • Changes in distributor buying patterns or a buildup of significant quantities in our distributors’ inventories or distribution channels; and • Commercially developing, and obtaining regulatory approvals and creating market acceptance for new products in a time frame consistent with our objectives. We May Experience Fluctuations in Our Financial Results or Fail to Meet Our Financial Projections. Our operating results can fluctuate from quarter to quarter and year to year, which could cause our growth or financial performance to fall below the expectations of investors and securities analysts. Our financial projections for future periods are based on estimated demand for our products. However, sales to our distributors and other customers may fall short of expectations because of less than estimated customer demand or other factors, including those described elsewhere in this Annual Report. Infrequent, unusual or unexpected revenues or costs could also contribute to the variability of our financial results. In addition, our products provide different contributions to our gross margin and our operating results could also fluctuate and be affected depending on the mix of products sold and the relative prices and gross margin contribution of those products. Failure to achieve operating results consistent with the expectations of investors and securities analysts could adversely affect our reputation and the price of our common stock. 26 Table of Contents Our Portfolio Investments May Be Subject to Volatility and Uncertainty in the Financial Markets and Other Risks. At December 31, 2007, we had $95.6 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments. We invest our cash in a variety of financial instruments, consisting principally of investments in certificates of deposit, commercial paper, U.S. government and agency obligations, and U.S. corporate bonds. These investments are denominated in U.S. dollars. We account for our investment instruments in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 (“SFAS No. 115”), Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities. All of the cash equivalents and marketable securities are treated as “available-for-sale” under SFAS No. 115. Investments in both fixed rate and floating rate interest earning instruments carry a degree of interest rate risk. Fixed rate debt securities may have their market value adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. Due in part to these factors, our future investment income may fall short of expectations due to changes in interest rates. We may also suffer losses in principal if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. However, because any debt securities we hold are classified as “available-for-sale,” no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity. Recent U.S. sub-prime mortgage defaults have had a significant impact across various sectors of the financial markets, causing global credit and liquidity issues. The short-term funding markets have experienced instability during 2007, leading to liquidity disruption in asset-backed commercial paper and failed auctions of auction rate securities. Further deterioration of the global credit market could adversely impact certain financial institutions that may have invested in or offered such securities. To the extent that we hold corporate bonds issued by those financial institutions in our portfolio, we could be adversely impacted and we could determine that some of our investments are impaired, which could adversely impact our financial results. As of December 31, 2007, we had not been adversely affected by these credit and liquidity issues. Utilization of Our Deferred Tax Assets May Be Limited and is Dependent on Future Taxable Income. As of December 31, 2007, we had federal net operating loss (“NOL”) carryforwards of $45.5 million for federal income tax purposes. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 contains provisions under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code that limit the NOLs that may be used in any given year in the event of specified occurrences, including significant ownership changes. If these specified events occur, we may lose some or all of the tax benefits of these carryforwards. During 2005, we determined, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence, which takes into consideration our forecasted taxable income, that it was more likely than not that we will benefit from the use of a significant portion of our deferred tax assets, and therefore we reduced our valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets related to these NOLs and other items. If in the future we determine, based on our assessment of both positive and negative evidence, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize all or a portion of the deferred tax assets, we will record a valuation allowance on the deferred tax assets which would result in recognition of income tax expense. If Our Estimates or Judgments Relating to Our Critical Accounting Policies Are Based on Assumptions That Change or Prove to be Incorrect, Our Operating Results Could Fall Below Expectations of Securities Analysts and Investors, Resulting in a Decline in Our Stock Price. Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate significant estimates used in preparing our financial statements, including those related to: • Revenue recognition; 27 Table of Contents • Allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable; • Reserve for inventory write-downs; • Stock-based compensation; • Potential impairment of long-lived and intangible assets; • Realization of deferred tax assets; • Clinical trial accruals; and • Contingencies. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, as provided in our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these and other estimates if our assumptions change or if actual circumstances differ from those in our assumptions, which could cause our operating results to fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors, resulting in a decline in our stock price. Our Credit Facilities Contain Certain Financial Covenants Which, if Not Satisfied, Could Result in the Acceleration of the Amounts Due Under These Facilities and Limit Our Ability to Borrow in the Future. Our credit facility with Comerica Bank contains various financial and other covenants with which we must comply on an ongoing or periodic basis. Although we do not expect to violate these covenants and obligations, if such a violation were to occur, the outstanding debt under our credit facility could become immediately due and payable, our lender could proceed against any collateral securing such indebtedness and our ability to borrow additional funds in the future may be adversely affected. We May Require Future Additional Capital. Our future liquidity and ability to meet our future capital requirements will depend on numerous factors, including, but not limited to, the following: • The costs and timing of the expansion of our manufacturing capacity; • The success of our research and product development efforts; • The magnitude of capital expenditures; • Changes in existing and potential relationships with distributors and other business partners; • The time and cost of conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals; • The costs involved in obtaining and enforcing patents, proprietary rights and necessary licenses; • The costs and liability associated with patent infringement or other types of litigation; • The costs and timing of expansion of sales and marketing activities; • The timing of the commercial launch of new products; • The extent to which existing and new products gain market acceptance; • The scope and results of clinical testing; • Competing technological and market developments; and • The scope and timing of strategic acquisitions. 28 Table of Contents If additional financing is needed, we may seek to raise funds through the sale of equity or other securities or through bank borrowings. There can be no assurance that financing through the sale of securities, bank borrowings or otherwise, will be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. An Economic Downturn, Terrorist Attacks or National Disasters May Adversely Affect Our Business. Changes in economic conditions could adversely affect our business. A weakening business climate could cause longer sales cycles and slower growth, and could expose us to increased business or credit risk in dealing with customers or suppliers adversely affected by economic conditions. Terrorist attacks or natural disasters, and subsequent governmental responses to these events, could cause economic instability. These actions could adversely affect economic conditions both within and outside the United States and reduce demand for our products. These events could disrupt the operations of our customers and suppliers and eliminate, reduce or delay our customers’ ability to purchase and use our products and our suppliers’ ability to provide raw materials and finished products. Risks Relating to Our Common Stock Our Stock Price Could Continue to be Volatile. Our stock price has been volatile, has fluctuated substantially in the past and may be volatile in the future and could experience substantial declines. The following factors, among others, could have a significant impact on the market for our Common Stock: • Future announcements concerning us or our products; • Future announcements concerning our competitors or industry; • Developments in patent or other proprietary rights; • Litigation or threatened litigation; • Public concern as to the performance or safety of products that we or others have developed or sold; • Failure to achieve, or changes in, financial estimates by securities analysts and comments or opinions about us by securities analysts or major stockholders; • Governmental regulation; • Clinical results with respect to our products in development or those of our competitors; • Timing of completion of clinical studies and receipt of required regulatory approvals; • Changes in the level of competition; • Loss of or declines in sales to major distributors or customers or changes in the mix of products sold; • The relatively low trading volume for our Common Stock; • Period to period fluctuations in our operating results; • Additions or departures of key personnel; • General market and economic conditions; and • Terrorist attacks, civil unrest, war and national disasters. 29 Table of Contents Future Sales of Our Common Stock by Existing Stockholders, Executive Officers or Directors Could Depress the Market Price of Our Common Stock and Make It More Difficult For Us to Sell Stock in the Future. Sales of our Common Stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. We are unable to estimate the number of shares of our Common Stock that may actually be resold in the public market since this will depend on the market price for our Common Stock, the individual circumstances of the sellers and other factors. We have a number of institutional stockholders that own significant blocks of our Common Stock. If one or more of these stockholders sell large portions of their holdings in a relatively short time, for liquidity or other reasons, the prevailing market price of our Common Stock could be negatively affected. In addition, it is possible that one or more of our executive officers or non-employee members of our Board of Directors could sell shares of our Common Stock during an open trading window under our Insider Trading Policy. These transactions and the perceived reasons for these transactions could have a negative effect on the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. Investor Confidence and Share Value May be Adversely Impacted if We and/or Our Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Conclude That Our Internal Control Over Financial Reporting is Not Effective. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the SEC adopted rules requiring us, as a public company, to include a report of management in our Annual Reports on Form 10-K that contains an assessment by management of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm must report on the effectiveness of these internal controls. We expect that our internal controls will continue to evolve as our business activities change. Although we seek to diligently and vigorously review our internal control over financial reporting in an effort to ensure compliance with the Section 404 requirements, any control system, regardless of how well designed, operated and evaluated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that its objectives will be met. If, during any year, our independent registered public accounting firm is not satisfied with our internal control over financial reporting or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated, tested or assessed, or if the independent registered public accounting firm interprets the requirements, rules or regulations differently than we do, then it may issue a report that is qualified. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and effectiveness of our internal controls, which ultimately could negatively impact the market price of our Common Stock. Anti-Takeover Provisions in Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Stockholder Rights Plan and Under Delaware Law Could Make a Third Party Acquisition of Us Difficult. Our Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws and Stockholder Rights Plan contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. We are also subject to certain provisions of Delaware law that could delay, deter or prevent a change in control of us. These provisions could limit the price investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Our Success Depends on Our Ability to Protect Our Proprietary Technology. The diagnostics industry places considerable importance on obtaining patent, trademark and trade secret protection, as well as other intellectual property rights, for new technologies, products and processes. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to develop and maintain a strong intellectual property portfolio or obtain licenses to patents for products and technologies both in the United States and in other countries. 30 Table of Contents As appropriate, we intend to file patent applications and obtain patent protection for our proprietary technology. These patent applications and patents will cover, as applicable, compositions of matter for our products, methods of making those products, methods of using those products and apparatus relating to the use or manufacture of those products. We will also rely on trade secrets, know-how and continuing technological advancements to protect our proprietary technology. We have entered, and will continue to enter, into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants, advisors and collaborators. However, these parties may not honor these agreements and we may not be able to successfully protect our rights to unpatented trade secrets and know-how. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and know-how. Many of our employees, including scientific and management personnel, were previously employed by competing companies. Although we encourage and expect all of our employees to abide by any confidentiality agreement with a prior employer, competing companies may allege trade secret violations and similar claims against us. We may collaborate with universities and governmental research organizations which, as a result, may acquire part of the rights to any inventions or technical information derived from collaboration with them. To facilitate development and commercialization of a proprietary technology base, we may need to obtain licenses to patents or other proprietary rights from other parties. Obtaining and maintaining such licenses may require the payment of substantial amounts. In addition, if we are unable to obtain these types of licenses, our product development and commercialization efforts may be delayed or precluded. We may incur substantial costs and be required to expend substantial resources in asserting or protecting our intellectual property rights, or in defending suits against us related to intellectual property rights. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights could substantially delay product development or commercialization activities. Disputes regarding intellectual property rights might include state, federal or foreign court litigation, as well as patent interference, patent reexamination, patent reissue, or trademark opposition proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Opposition or revocation proceedings could be instituted in a foreign patent office. An adverse decision in any proceeding regarding intellectual property rights could result in the loss or limitation of our rights to a patent, an invention or trademark. We May Become Involved in Intellectual Property Infringement Disputes, Which are Costly and Could Limit or Eliminate Our Ability to Sell Our Products or Use Certain of Our Technologies in the Future. From time to time, we may seek to enforce our patents or other intellectual property rights through litigation. In addition, there are a large number of patents and patent applications in our product areas, and additional patents may be issued to third parties relating to our product areas. We may be sued for infringement of patents or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights with respect to one or more of our products. Litigation in our industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights is prevalent and is expected to continue. Our involvement in litigation with respect to patents or other intellectual property or to determine rights in proprietary technology, either as a plaintiff or defendant, could adversely affect our revenues, market share, results of operations and business because: • As is common with major litigation, it could consume a substantial portion of managerial and financial resources; • Its outcome would be uncertain and a court may find that our patents are invalid or unenforceable in response to claims by another party or that the third-party patent claims are valid and infringed by our products; 31 Table of Contents • An adverse outcome could subject us to the loss of the protection of our patents or to liability in the form of past royalty payments, penalties, special and punitive damages, or future royalty payments significantly affecting our future earnings; • Failure to obtain a necessary license upon an adverse outcome could prevent us from selling our current products or other products we may develop or acquire; • The pendency of any litigation may in and of itself cause our distributors and customers to reduce purchases of our products; and • A court could award a preliminary and/or permanent injunction, which would prevent us from selling our current or future products. In addition to the foregoing, we may also indemnify some customers and strategic partners under our agreements with such parties if our products or activities have actually or allegedly infringed upon, misappropriated or misused another party’s proprietary rights. Further, our products may contain technology provided to us by other parties, such as contractors, suppliers or customers, and we may have little or no ability to determine in advance whether such technology infringes the intellectual property rights of a third party. The Sales Potential for Our OraQuick® Products Could be Affected by Our Ability to Obtain Certain Licenses. Our OraQuick® test platform is a lateral flow assay that tests for specific antibodies or other substances. The term “lateral flow” generally refers to a test strip through which a sample flows and which provides a test result on a portion of the strip downstream from where the sample is applied. There are numerous patents in the United States and other countries which claim lateral flow assay methods and devices. Some of these patents may broadly cover the technology used in the OraQuick® test and are in force in the United States and other countries. We may not be able to make or sell the OraQuick® test in the United States or other countries where these patents are in force. We have obtained licenses under several lateral flow patents, which we believe should be sufficient to permit the manufacturing and sale of the OraQuick® device as currently contemplated. However, licenses under additional patents may be required and it is possible that a third party could seek to enforce one or more lateral flow patents against us. In the event that we are unable to successfully defend against such litigation or it is determined that a license is required and it is not possible to negotiate or otherwise obtain a license agreement on reasonable terms under a necessary patent, our ability to manufacture and sell OraQuick® devices could be limited. In such case, we may be able to modify the OraQuick® test such that a license would not be necessary. However, this alternative could delay or limit our ability to sell the OraQuick® test in the United States and other markets, which would adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and business. Risks Relating to Products, Marketing and Sales A Market for Our Products May Not Develop. Our future success will depend, in part, on the market acceptance, and the timing of such acceptance, of new products such as an OraQuick® rapid HIV-1/2 antibody test for home use, an OraQuick® HCV test for professional use, and other new products or technologies that may be developed or acquired. To achieve market acceptance, we and/or our distributors will likely be required to undertake substantial marketing efforts and spend significant funds to inform potential customers and the public of the perceived benefits of these products. There may be limited evidence on which to evaluate the market reaction to products that may be developed. There can be no assurance that any products will obtain market acceptance and fill the market need that is perceived to exist. 32 Table of Contents If Acceptance and Adoption of Our Oral Fluid Testing Does Not Continue, Our Future Results May Suffer. We have made significant progress in gaining acceptance of oral fluid testing for HIV in the insurance, public health and other markets. We have also made significant progress in gaining acceptance of oral fluid testing for drugs of abuse in the workplace and criminal justice testing markets. However, the ultimate degree of acceptance in these markets is uncertain, and other markets may resist the adoption of oral fluid testing as a replacement for other testing methods in use today. In addition, certain state laws prohibit or restrict the use of oral fluid testing for drugs of abuse in certain markets or the rapid, point-of-care testing for HIV. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to expand the use of our oral fluid testing products in these or other markets. Our Customers May Resist Adoption of Rapid Point-of-Care Diagnostic Testing. We expect sales of our rapid point-of-care diagnostic products, such as our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test, to become an increasingly important part of our business. Hospitals, clinical reference laboratories, physicians and other customers may resist the adoption of rapid point-of-care tests and instead may choose to use or continue to use competing laboratory tests. Our failure to achieve initial or additional market acceptance of our rapid point-of-care diagnostic tests with customers would have a negative effect on our future sales growth. Our Sales Cycles Can be Lengthy and May Depend on Public Funding, Which Can Cause Variability and Unpredictability in Our Operating Results. The sales cycles for certain of our products can be lengthy and unpredictable, which makes it more difficult to accurately forecast revenues in a given period and may cause revenues and operating results to vary from period to period. Sales of our products often involve purchasing decisions by large public and private institutions, may require many levels of approval and may be dependent on the availability of grants or other funding from governmental agencies which can vary from period to period in both amount and timing. For example, in past years our OraQuick ADVANCE® HIV-1/2 test has been purchased through bulk procurement or other funding provided by the CDC, SAMHSA, city or state governments and other governmental agencies. On an international basis, our OraQuick® test has been purchased with funds provided by the President’s Energy Plan for AIDS Relief and other international agencies. There can be no assurance that purchases or funding from these agencies will continue at the same or higher levels or at all. As a result, we may expend considerable resources on unsuccessful sales efforts or we may not be able to complete transactions at all or on a schedule and in an amount consistent with our objectives. We May be Sued for Product Liabilities for Injuries Resulting From the Use of Our Products. We may be held liable if any of our products, or any product which is made with the use or incorporation of any of our technologies, causes injury of any type or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or usage. Although we have obtained product liability insurance, this insurance may not fully cover potential liabilities. As we bring new products to market, we may need to increase our product liability coverage. We are selling cryosurgical wart removal products in the consumer or OTC market in various countries. We expect to expand the OTC sales of these products to other countries and to eventually distribute other types of products in the domestic and international OTC markets, such as our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test. We believe the sale of products in the OTC market increases the risk of potential product liability exposure and possibly the required level of insurance coverage that we will need to maintain. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise to protect against potential product liability claims could affect our decision to commercialize new products and our results of operations. Performance of Our Products May Affect Our Revenues, Stock Price and Reputation. Our products are generally sold with labeling that contains performance claims approved or cleared by the FDA or other regulators. If our products fail to perform in accordance with the applicable label claims or 33 Table of Contents otherwise in accordance with the expectations or needs of our customers, customers may switch to a competing product or otherwise stop using our products, and our revenues could be adversely affected. In addition, poor performance by one or more of our products and publicity surrounding such performance could have an adverse effect on our reputation, our continuing ability to sell products and the prevailing market price of our Common Stock. Our Inability to Manufacture Products in Accordance With Applicable Specifications, Performance Standards or Quality Requirements Could Adversely Affect Our Business. The materials and processes used to manufacture our products must meet detailed specifications, performance standards and quality requirements to ensure our products will perform in accordance with their label claims, our customers’ expectations and applicable regulatory requirements. As a result, our products and the materials used in their manufacture or assembly undergo regular inspections and quality testing. Factors such as defective materials or processes, mechanical failures, human errors, environmental conditions, changes in materials or production methods by our vendors, and other events or conditions could cause our products or the materials used to produce or assemble our products to fail our inspections and quality testing. Any failure or delay in our ability to meet the applicable specifications, performance standards or quality requirements could adversely affect our ability to manufacture and sell our products or comply with regulatory requirements. These events could, in turn, adversely affect our business and financial performance. Our Increasing International Presence May be Affected by Regulatory, Cultural or Other Restraints. We intend to increase revenue derived from international sales of our products. Our international sales accounted for $18.1 million or 22% of total revenues for 2007, $11.4 million or 17% of total revenues for 2006 and $9.5 million or 14% of total revenues for 2005. A number of factors can slow or prevent international sales, or substantially increase the cost of international sales, including those set forth below: • Regulatory requirements (including compliance with applicable customs regulations) may slow, limit, or prevent the offering of products in foreign countries; • The unavailability of licenses to certain patents in force in a foreign country which cover our products may restrict our ability to sell into that country; • Reduced protection for, or enforcement of, our patents and other intellectual property rights in foreign countries; • The inability to maintain ISO certification for our or our suppliers’ manufacturing facilities could preclude, interrupt or delay our ability to manufacture products for sale in Europe or other international territories; • Our inability to obtain or maintain the CE mark on our products may preclude or delay our ability to sell products in the European Union; • Our inability to identify international distributors and negotiate acceptable terms for distribution agreements may delay or reduce our sales; • Cultural and political differences may make it difficult to effectively market, sell and gain acceptance of products in foreign countries; • Inexperience in international markets may slow or limit our ability to sell products in foreign countries; • Our inability to extend the shelf life of our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test; • Exchange rates, currency fluctuations, tariffs and other barriers, extended payment terms and dependence on and difficulties in managing international distributors or representatives may affect our revenues even when product shipments occur; 34 Table of Contents • The creditworthiness of foreign distributors may be less certain and foreign accounts receivable collection may be more difficult; • Economic conditions, the absence of available funding sources, terrorism, civil unrest, war and natural disasters may slow or limit our ability to sell our products in foreign countries; • Our exposure to liability under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and various other laws, rules and/or regulations applicable to us as a result of our international sales may affect our ability to sell into international markets; • International markets often have long sales cycles, especially for sales to foreign governments, quasi-governmental agencies and international public health agencies, thereby delaying or limiting our ability to sell our products; and • We may be at a disadvantage if competitors in foreign countries sell competing products at prices at or below such competitors’ or our cost. Currently, most of our international sales are negotiated for and paid in U.S. dollars. Nevertheless, these sales are subject to currency risks since the changes in the values of foreign currencies relative to the value of the U.S. dollar can render our products comparatively more expensive. These exchange rate fluctuations could negatively impact international sales of our products, as could changes in the general economic conditions in those markets. In addition, we have entered into a contract for the manufacture and supply of our OraQuick® HIV-1/2 test in Thailand, and the Histofreezer® cryosurgical product is currently manufactured in The Netherlands. We may enter into agreements to manufacture other products in foreign countries as well. However, factors such as economic and political conditions and foreign regulatory requirements may slow or prevent the manufacture of our products in countries other than the United States. Interruption of the supply of our products could reduce revenues or cause us to incur significant additional expenses in finding an alternative source of supply. In addition, foreign currency fluctuations and economic conditions in foreign countries could increase the costs of manufacturing our products in foreign countries. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not Applicable. 