Risk Factors This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. We, or our representatives, from time to time may make or may have made certain forward-looking statements, whether orally or in writing, including without limitation statements made or to be made in this Form 20-F, information contained in other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, press releases and other public documents or statements. In addition, our representatives, from time to time, participate in speeches and calls with market analysts, conferences with investors or potential investors in our securities and other meetings and conferences. Some of the information presented at these speeches, calls, meetings and conferences may include forward-looking statements. We use words like “expects,” “anticipates” or “believes” to identify forward-looking statements. We wish to ensure that all forward-looking statements are accompanied by meaningful cautionary statements, so as to ensure to the fullest extent possible the protections of the safe harbor established in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Accordingly, all forward-looking statements are qualified in their entirety by reference to, and are accompanied by, the following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements. We caution the reader that this list of important factors may not be exhaustive. We operate in rapidly changing businesses, and new risk factors emerge from time to time. We cannot predict every risk factor, nor can we assess the impact, if any, of all such risk factors on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly, forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. Further, we undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements after the date they are made to conform the statements to actual results or changes in our expectations. 4 Table of Contents RISK RELATED TO OUR COMPANY AND OUR INDUSTRY The reduction in telecommunications tariffs in India has had and is expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years. Tariff reductions by the Department of Telecommunications (“DoT”) caused peak international call tariffs in India to decline from Rs.60 per minute in fiscal 2000 to Rs.48 per minute in fiscal 2002 to Rs.40.80 per minute in fiscal 2003. Following regulatory changes in January 2003, international long distance (“ILD”) charges are no longer fixed by the DoT and are instead determined by service providers. Increased competition in the ILD services business has resulted in the significant lowering of peak international call tariffs in India to Rs.18 per minute in fiscal 2004 and between Rs.7.20 and Rs.18 per minute in fiscal 2005. The international call tariffs in India further declined during the year 2006 to between Rs.6 and Rs. 14 per minute. Since international telephony revenues constitute a significant part of the Company’s total revenues, the decline in tariffs has materially and adversely affected the Company’s revenues and net income. Additionally, while tariffs were declining, we continued to be subject to fixed “access deficit charges” (“ADC”) which are effectively charges to compensate fixed line telephone companies for providing below-cost telecommunications services to underserved areas in India. The ADC is currently Rs. 1.60 per minute and Rs.0.80 per minute for incoming and outgoing international long distance calls respectively and revenue share of 1.5% of adjusted gross revenue of the Company. The ADC payable on per minute basis on domestic calls was discontinued with effect from March 1, 2006 and replaced with a revenue share of 1.5% of adjusted gross revenue of the Company. This will also have an effect on our margins. In March, 2005, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (“TRAI”) issued a tariff order fixing tariff ceilings for international private leased circuit (“IPLC”) services which were substantially lower than the rates being charged by the Company at that time. The Company challenged the tariff order of TRAI before the Telecom Disputes and Appellate Settlement Tribunal (TDSAT) and the tariff order was set aside by the Tribunal vide its order dated April 28, 2005 and TRAI was directed on the ground of natural justice and transparency to share the documents on the basis of which tariff was fixed and to give a hearing before pronouncing the tariff order. In September, 2005, TRAI again issued a tariff order after sharing the documents and providing to the company a hearing on the issue. The tariff order issued by TRAI in September 2005 was again challenged by VSNL before TDSAT and interim stay was granted against the operation of the tariff order. The final order in the case was issued by TDSAT on November 28, 2005 wherein the tariff order issued by TRAI in September 2005 was upheld. Consequently TRAI vide its Amendment to Telecommunication Tariff Order (41st Amendment) notified that the International Private Leased Circuit (IPLC) ceiling tariff fixed earlier vide 39th Amendment to Telecommunication Tariff Order dated September 8, 2005 will take effect from November 29, 2005. This order has been implemented and the new IPLC rates have come into practice the same was implemented with effect from November 29, 2005. 5 Table of Contents Our profitability may be adversely affected if the decisions in respect of “revenue share” disputes are upheld against the company. The Company in accordance with the terms of its license has to pay a certain percentage of its “Adjusted gross revenue” to the telecom licensor in India. The Company has disputed the definition of “Adjusted gross revenue” and the matters are at various stages of dispute as per the dispute resolution process prevailing in the Indian Telecom regulatory environment. In the event, these matters are upheld against us, the company’s profitability may be materially impacted also which may lead to significant cash outflow towards such “revenue share” payments to the Telecom licensor in addition to punitive action as per license terms. As a result of delays in the implementation of the new Carrier Access Code regime, we continue to depend on other telecommunications providers for access to end customers. All international calls we carry that either originate or terminate in India must pass through access telephone networks, which we do not own or control. Demand for our international outgoing telephony services will depend, to a significant degree, on the rates charged to end users in India, access to whom is controlled by competitors such as BSNL, MTNL, Bharti and Reliance. The Government’s proposed Carrier Access Code (“CAC”) regime offers end customers the right to choose their NLD or ILD carrier, based on rates and quality, rather than such choice being made by the access provider. Implementation of the CAC regime has been delayed due to technical and other issues. BSNL and MTNL currently control access to a majority of the end customers and, because of their “Most Favored Customer” arrangement with us until February 2004, used the Company as their preferred ILD carrier. Since February 2004, we have been dependent on the implementation of the CAC regime to develop our own customer base for the outgoing international telephony market. There can be no assurances that the CAC will be implemented in the near future or that even if the CAC is implemented, end customers will choose the Company as their preferred ILD carrier. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India, which could adversely affect the operation of our business and prevent us from entering into transactions that are in the best interests of our shareholders. The Company and its businesses are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the Government of India and its departments, including the DoT, which issues and implements the telecommunications licenses under the Indian Telegraph Act and the TRAI which, among other things, sets the terms and conditions which telecommunications operators are required to follow in their activities. The DoT as the licensor is empowered to revoke the license granted by it for any breach of the license conditions and to modify the license in the public interest. TRAI’s clearance is required for all the Company’s new initiatives on issues of pricing or the launch of new products. Failure to follow the TRAI directives may lead to the imposition of fines and other punitive actions. Any disputes between the Company and the Government (as the licensor) regarding the terms of the Company’s telecommunications licenses, as well as any dispute between the Company and the other service providers in the country, is required to be adjudicated by the Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (“TDSAT”). Failure to follow the TRAI directives or TDSAT orders may lead to the imposition of fines and/or other punitive actions. Accordingly, Government regulation and supervision could require us to enter into transactions or conduct our business in a manner that is not in the best interests of our shareholders. 6 Table of Contents The Government of India controls our licenses to provide telephony and other services and any material modifications of the terms and conditions of the licenses could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on our prospects. The Company operates substantially all of the ILD services it provides in India, including basic international telephony services to and from India, pursuant to a new license agreement from the Government that is valid until March 31, 2022. The Company also holds an NLD license and an ISP license. The DoT retains the right to modify the terms and conditions of the Company’s licenses at any time if in its opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunication sector. A change in certain significant terms of any of the licenses, such as their duration, the range of services permitted or the scope of exclusivity, if any, could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s business and prospects. The Company must also annually obtain various radio spectrum operating license from the Wireless Planning and Co-ordination Wing of the Ministry of Communications(WPC), and it is currently awaiting for certain of these to be renewed. Although it expects to obtain such renewals, the non-renewal or modification of these or any of its licenses, or punitive action by the Government for continuing these services without renewal of the license, could adversely affect the Company and result in lost revenues. Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we do business could adversely affect our business. The Company has interests in a large number of geographic areas across the world and must comply with an extensive range of requirements that are meant to regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of telecommunications networks and services. These requirements are likely to increase with the Company’s increased overseas expansion. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the telecommunications industry. Decisions by regulators in various geographic areas regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licenses, to the Company or to third parties, could adversely affect the Company’s future operations in these geographic areas. The Company cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which it intends to operate will issue the required telecommunications licenses. Additionally, decisions by regulators could further adversely affect the pricing for services the Company offers or intends to offer. Further, as a multinational enterprise, we are subject to varying degrees of regulation by state, federal and foreign regulators. Some of the jurisdictions where we provide services have little, if any, written regulations regarding our operations. In addition, the written regulations and guidelines that do exist in a jurisdiction may not specifically address our operations. If our interpretation of these regulations and guidelines is incorrect, we may incur additional expenses to comply with additional regulations applicable to our operations. It is possible that one or more governmental agencies will disagree with our interpretation of existing laws or regulations and assert that our operations are not in compliance with those laws or regulations. In that event, it is possible that the governmental agency might initiate an enforcement action or impose restrictions on our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We must obtain and maintain permits and rights-of-way to operate our network. If we are unable, on acceptable terms and on a timely basis, to obtain and maintain the franchises, permits and rights needed to expand and operate our network, our business could be materially adversely affected. In addition, the cancellation or non-renewal of the franchises, permits or rights that are obtained could materially adversely affect us. If certain tax claims by the Indian tax authorities are upheld, our financial condition would be adversely impacted. The Company is subject to the following major tax claims in India: • License Fees: The Company’s claims of license fees in fiscal 1994 to fiscal 1998 as deductible expenditure have been disputed by the Income Tax Department. However, the Company has received favorable decisions in respect of all these claims. We have not been advised by the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) of any appeal that may have been filed by the Income Tax Department. If the decisions in the Company’s favor were to be appealed and all the disputed claims are decided against the Company, the aggregate negative impact on the Company would be approximately Rs.12,543 million (US$ 287.55 million). • Tax Benefit claims: The Indian tax authorities have disallowed tax benefits claimed by the Company in fiscal 1996 to fiscal 2003 with respect to certain portion of its profits which the Company claims as having been generated by an enterprise engaged in telecommunications and therefore entitled to a tax holiday under certain regulations. Tax authorities in respect of seven out of the eight fiscal years, have disallowed the claims of the company which have been appealed by the company before ITAT. Decision in respect of the balance one fiscal year is pending before tax authorities. If all of the claims appealed are decided against the Company, the aggregate negative impact on the Company would be approximately Rs 6,854 million (US$ 154.09 million ). 7 Table of Contents • Tax on Reimbursements: Certain reimbursements received from the Government during fiscal 1994 were not offered for taxation and the Indian tax authorities levied taxes (inclusive of interest but excluding penalties) of Rs 3,405 million (US$ 76.55 million) which the Company paid under protest. The Company’s appeal has been dismissed by the first appellate authority. The Company has appealed to the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Company would be negatively impacted by that amount. We may not receive additional compensation from the Government of India for the early termination of our monopoly in international telephony services. The Government of India allowed private operators to start offering ILD services from April 1, 2002, terminating the Company’s exclusivity in offering such services two years ahead of schedule, and compensated the Company with a package of benefits. The Government had given assurance prior to the disinvestment of the Company that it would consider additional compensation if found necessary following a detailed review, when undertaken. However, prior to disinvestment of the Company in February 2002, the Government granted a dispensation as full and final settlement of every sort of claim against early termination of ILD de-monopolisation of the Company by two years and the Company had been pursuing the Government for considering additional compensation. Since legalities warranted the filing of a complaint with the High Court within the stipulated time to ensure that the claim is not barred by limitation, VSNL has filed a claim in the Mumbai High Court. There can be no assurance that the claim will be successful and the Company will receive compensation from the Government, or if the Company does receive compensation, as to the amount, nature or timing of such compensation. The prices that we charge for our communications services have been decreasing, and we expect that they will continue to decrease over time and we may be unable to compensate for this lost revenue We expect to continue to experience decreasing prices for our communications services: • as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks; • as a result of our current agreements with customers which often contain volume based pricing or other contractually agreed upon decreases in prices during the term of the agreement; • through technological advances or otherwise; and • as volume based pricing becomes more prevalent. Accordingly, our historical revenue is not indicative of future revenue based on comparable traffic volumes. As the prices for our communications services decrease for whatever reason, if we are unable to offer additional services from which we can derive additional revenue or otherwise reduce our operating expenses, our operating results will decline and our business and financial results will suffer. Competition in the Indian telecommunications sector is expected to intensify, further affecting our business adversely. The Indian telecommunications sector continues to be intensely competitive and we face competition in each of our businesses. We expect further competition as the existing and new operators expand their operations and services, there is more industry consolidation and we enter new businesses. Our competitors in the ILD business have resorted to steep rate cuts that we have had to match to remain competitive. Though these rate cuts have now stabilized, they have affected our traffic minutes, revenues and market share adversely. All fixed line, cellular and NLD operators in India have experienced increased competition in recent years. Faced with downward pressures on tariffs and revenues in their core businesses, these operators have demanded rate cuts from their ILD providers. Bharat Sanchar Nigam Ltd. (“BSNL”), which is an Indian Government owned company and India’s largest fixed line operator, has already begun offering its own ILD services and other fixed line operators such as Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (“MTNL”) have said that they may start offering such services shortly. Some of the other telecom operators who offer fixed and wireless including mobile services are also NLD and ILD operators and carry not only their own traffic but also bid for traffic from other operators including BSNL, MTNL. In addition, with the government of India announcing relaxation of the licensing conditions and reduction of Entry Fees for International and Domestic Long Distance services from January 2006, more operators have started applying for licences and are likely to start operations and intensify competition further. Further, the Regulatory regime in India also permits negotiated rates for carriage of national long distance calls. Many of the existing access providers are likely to acquire NLD and / or ILD licences. This is likely to affect the addressable market of the company resulting in drop in traffic volumes and revenues from NLD and ILD business. In some lines of our international businesses such as private leased circuits, end users are customers of foreign carriers and in case the foreign carriers decide to choose our competitors over us, we may lose revenues in those lines of business. 8 Table of Contents The Government legalized the provision of Internet telephony in India with effect from April 1, 2002. Internet telephony has the potential to reduce ILD tariffs significantly below current levels. An increasing number of international calls to and from India are being made through the Internet, and this number is likely to increase substantially. While the effect of Internet telephony has been minimal due the low rates prevailing in the ILD market and the limited penetration of computers in the country, competition from this sector could adversely affect the Company’s telephony revenues in the future. The Department of Telecom (DoT) relaxed the licence conditions for international and national long distance services, and reduced the entry fee for these businesses from Rs. 250 million and Rs. 1000 million respectively to Rs.25 million, effective January 1, 2006. The licence fee payable by all long distance service providers to the DoT has also been reduced to a uniform 6% of the AGR, effective January 1, 2006. These changes may raise competitive pressures. It has been publicly reported that global telecom companies intend to enter in the Indian telecom market and obtain licenses from the DoT. This development can and may lead to erosion in the market share of the Company and consequently impact tariffs, revenue and profits. Rapid changes in available technology could increase our cost as well as the competition We operate in an industry that is experiencing rapid and substantial technological change. In addition, the introduction of new services or technologies, as well as the further development of existing services and technologies may reduce the cost or increase the supply of certain services similar to those that we provide. As a result, our most significant competitors in the future may be new entrants to the communications and information services industries. These new entrants may not be burdened by an installed base of legacy equipment. Future success depends, in part, on the ability to anticipate and adapt in a timely manner to technological changes. Technological changes and the resulting competition could have a material adverse effect on us. Increased industry capacity and other factors could lead to lower prices for our services Additional network capacity available from our competitors may cause significant decreases in the prices for the services that we offer. Prices may also decline due to capacity increases resulting from technological advances and strategic acquisitions. Increased competition has already led to a decline in rates charged for various telecommunications services. There is an increase in the number of players offering various forms of Data products and this sector is witnessing increased competition and reduced tariffs. The Company is a market leader in offering data products in India and there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to retain its market leader position and reduced tariffs will cause significant reduction in its revenues and thereby profits. Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses The integration of acquired businesses, including those referenced immediately below, involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; 9 Table of Contents • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • higher integration costs than anticipated; • failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings, including through re-structuring activities; • difficulties in the assimilation and retention of employees; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems, including accounting systems, technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls, including internal control over financial reporting required by the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, procedures and policies. If we cannot successfully integrate acquired businesses or operations, we may experience material adverse consequences to our business, financial condition or results of operations. Successful integration of these acquired businesses or operations will depend on our ability to manage these operations, realize opportunities for revenue growth presented by strengthened service offerings and expanded geographic market coverage and, to some degree, to eliminate redundant and excess costs. Because of difficulties in combining geographically distant operations, we may not be able to achieve the benefits that we hope to achieve as a result of the acquisition. Recent acquisitions include: • Tyco Global Network (“TGN”) for cash consideration of Rs.5,359 million (US$120 million) plus acquisition costs of Rs. 785 million (US$18 million); • Tata Power Broadband Limited (now VSNL Broadband Limited) for a purchase consideration of Rs.2,021million (US$45 million). • Teleglobe International Holdings Ltd. (“Teleglobe”) for cash consideration of Rs.7,924 million (US$178 million) plus acquisition costs of Rs.264 million (US$6 million); • Internet business and assets of Seven Star Dot Com Pvt. Limited for a purchase consideration of Rs.159 million (US$4 million); • Direct Internet Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Primus Telecommunications India Limited for a purchase consideration of Rs.942 million (US$21 million); subsequent to close of fiscal 2006. We have also entered into a joint venture to provide telecommunications services in South Africa, which would require the Company to make significant investments. We may make further acquisitions or enter into other strategic partnerships to expand our access to customers, acquire new service offerings, or enhance our technical capabilities. We may be unable to successfully identify, manage and assimilate future acquisitions, investments and strategic alliances, which could adversely affect our results of operations We continually evaluate potential investments and strategic opportunities to expand our network, enhance connectivity and add traffic to the network. In the future, we may seek additional investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements, which may expose us to risks such as: • the difficulty of identifying appropriate investments, strategic allies or opportunities; • the possibility that senior management may be required to spend considerable time negotiating agreements and monitoring these arrangements; • the possibility that definitive agreements will not be finalized; • potential regulatory issues applicable to the telecommunications business; • the loss or reduction in value of the capital investment; • the inability of management to capitalize on the opportunities presented by these arrangements; and • the possibility of insolvency of a strategic ally. There can be no assurance that we would successfully overcome these risks or any other problems encountered with these investments, strategic alliances or similar arrangements. 10 Table of Contents Our future borrowing programmes may be adversely affected if we are unable to implement effectively the business plans in respect of our acquisitions. The company has acquired substantial debt in its books during fiscal 2006. The cost of such debt may erode the operating margins of the company. The debt in the books of the company was primarily made for the acquisitions made by the company. These acquisitions were not generating profits and hence in the event, the company is not able to effectively implement its business plans in respect of these acquisitions, due to internal or external factors, or delays in turning these acquisitions around may result in delay in adhering to debt covenants and repayment schedules. This can and may have an impact on the costs of debt and adversely impact costs and other terms and conditions relating to future borrowings by the company. This can also impact the ratings of the company in the event it proceeds to obtain a rating for its borrowing programmes in the future: The company operates in the highly competitive telecom market globally and any adverse scenario which may arise in these markets in which the company operates or in the Telecom market in general may impact the rating of the company and consequently its borrowing plans and cost of such borrowings finally impacting the profits of the company. We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network or we will not generate profits We must continue to increase the volume of Internet, data, voice and video transmissions on our network in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network. If we do not maintain our relationships with current customers and develop new large-volume customers, we may not be able to substantially increase traffic on our network, which would adversely affect our ability to become profitable. Further certain costs including costs related to repairs and maintenance can be of fixed nature and in the absence of revenues shall continue to adversely impact our profitability. Our revenues from our commercial arrangements with BSNL and MTNL have been declining and any further adverse changes to these arrangements will adversely affect our business. The Company’s revenues from BSNL and MTNL, our significant customers, have declined significantly in recent years and may continue to do so. This is primarily the result of changes in government regulation which have increased competition in our businesses. Gross revenues from BSNL and MTNL in fiscal 2006 fell to Rs.3,350 million compared to Rs.4,500 million and Rs.7,600 million during fiscal 2005 and 2004, respectively. As part of the compensation package relating to the termination of the Company’s ILD services monopoly, the Government of India had directed BSNL and MTNL to route their international calls at market rates through the Company as a “Most Favored Customer” until February 12, 2004. In March 2004, BSNL invited competitive bids from ILD operators to carry its outgoing ILD traffic. MTNL also invited competitive bids from ILD operators in March 2006. Although the Company retained the outgoing traffic of BSNL till fiscal 2005 and MTNL traffic till fiscal 2006 after competing with other ILD operators, the Company’s gross revenues as well as its margins from such traffic declined. If BSNL or MTNL cease to route or reduce the volume of their international traffic through the Company or seek to further renegotiate rates, the amount of call traffic carried by the Company and the Company’s revenues and margins could be further adversely affected. Furthermore, BSNL has been granted operating licenses for international telephony services by the Government and has started ILD operations. In March 2004, the Company and BSNL signed an agreement pursuant to which BSNL may use our infrastructure to route its ILD traffic. BSNL commenced utilizing our infrastructure under this arrangement during fiscal 2005. There can be no assurance that BSNL will route its ILD traffic through the Company in sufficient volumes or that the terms of the agreement will not be modified to the Company’s detriment. However during the fiscal 2005, the above agreement was renewed till March 2007 resulting in lower revenues for the Company. If BSNL and/or MTNL start carrying their own international telephony traffic, as the largest fixed wire line operators in India, their access to end customers could give them a competitive advantage over the Company, which could adversely affect the Company’s traffic volumes, revenues and net income. Delays in reaching rate agreements with major international carriers could have an adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of the Company’s revenue is derived from foreign telecommunications administrations and carriers for connection to the Indian telecommunications network. As with most developing countries, the volume of incoming calls to India exceeds the volume of outgoing calls from India by a significant margin. However, following the termination of the Company’s monopoly in ILD services, incoming call traffic is also carried by other ILD operators, as a result of which the Company may no longer have positive traffic balances with a number of foreign carriers. Currently the Company’s settlement rates with foreign carriers for ILD traffic are negotiated with them from time to time. Any delay in concluding rate agreements with major international carriers, may adversely affect incoming traffic volumes and consequently the Company’s revenues. 11 Table of Contents Given the competitive scenario in India in the ILD sector, the prevailing settlement rates with respect to foreign carriers, are lower than in previous years and are well below the benchmark rates stipulated by the United States Federal Communications Commission (“FCC”). Any further lowering of benchmark rates by the FCC or delays in reaching final agreement with major carriers regarding rates could cause a significant decrease in the Company’s revenues from foreign carriers its working capital which in turn could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Illegal international telephony operators have adversely affected our call volumes. Our call volumes have been adversely affected by the international telephony services offered by illegal operators in India. These operators offer cheaper services since they do not pay Interconnect Usage Charges (“IUCs”) or ADCs or other regulatory payments including license fees and taxes. According to various market estimates these operators have captured as much as 25 percent of the incoming ILD traffic into India. The Company has suggested to the TRAI that the reduction of IUCs by phasing out or reducing the ADCs will ensure that illegal operators have no competitive advantage or arbitrage opportunities. While the ADCs have been reduced by around 51 percent for international traffic terminating in India, there still exists an arbitrage of about Rs.1.60 per minute (being the current applicable ADC) for the illegal operators. Until the TRAI phases out the ADC component in the IUC and the Government implements measures to effectively prevent illegal telephony services, we expect our business to be adversely affected by illegal operators. Telecommunications carriers that we do business with could suffer decreasing margins and financial distress, which may negatively impact our business. As an international telecommunications service provider, the Company does significant business with foreign carriers all over the world. Several telecommunications carriers, particularly those in the US, which accounted for over 15.87 percent of our telephony revenues in fiscal 2006, have in the recent past suffered reduced profit margins as well as significant financial pressures. Some of these companies have been acquired by other US or European companies and are undergoing restructuring of their businesses. If any of the major carriers that we do business with encounters financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to recover amounts owed to us. There can be no assurance that all the Company’s receivables can be collected or that the Company will not be adversely affected by the financial difficulties of other carriers. Our Mobile Global Roaming business may decline due to changing technologies. Our wireless mobile global roaming business provides roaming services for GSM, Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network, or iDen, Universal Mobile Telecommunications System, or UMTS, and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio, or ESMR, networks around the world. However, it may be more difficult for us to provide roaming between other network standards, including networks based on third generation, or 3G, standards, because our service may not be able to work with such other standards to identify mobile subscribers’ locations and profiles. Within the last several years, some roaming providers have begun to use protocol gateways that translate data from disparate networks into a single common language that permits the provision of roaming service to a variety of network types. As 3G networks become more prevalent, demand for our services may drop which would have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and financial performance. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially adversely affect the business We have operations and investments outside of India and the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; 12 Table of Contents • the difficulty of enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries may exceed those in India and the U.S.; • foreign currency exchange rates may fluctuate, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the value of our international assets and investments; • foreign earnings may be subject to withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, with penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in India and U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Any serious damage to the undersea telecommunications cable systems utilized by the Company might adversely affect the Company’s traffic and thereby its revenues. A major part of the Company’s international traffic is routed through undersea cable systems landing in India and other parts of the world as well as through cable systems between different countries. These cables are prone to damage including cuts. Although such damage is normally not serious in nature and traffic can often be routed through the other remaining cable systems and satellites, serious damage could occur. Any serious damage to major cables could seriously disrupt traffic, leading to losses in revenue. Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot fulfill our commitments on the significant contracts We have undertaken number of complex and large contracts. If we fail to execute these contracts on time, it may result in reduction in our future revenues and in turn our profitability. Further, failure to meets our commitments under these contracts would result in damage to our reputation also. Our three largest customers accounted for 19.54 percent of our revenues in fiscal 2006. Further, we operate in an industry which is largely dependent on the decision and actions of our customers and there are various factors which are outside our control, which may lead to termination of contracts. If due to any reason, we lose any of our major customers or they terminate the agreement entered into with VSNL, without any cause and with very little or no notice or penalty, it could negatively impact our revenues as well as our profitability and cash generation ability. Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delay and costs We are dependent on third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components that are integrated into our network. We are also dependent on suppliers for maintaining our extensive cable assets not restricted to undersea cable assets for repairs and maintenance of these various forms of cable systems. If any of these relationships is terminated or a supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment and we are unable to reach suitable alternative arrangements quickly, we may experience significant additional costs. If that happens, we could be materially adversely affected. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services were held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. To the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; 13 Table of Contents • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. Impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business. Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in various jurisdictions worldwide may not prevent misappropriation, and our failure to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise appropriate our proprietary network information. Our agreements with employees and others who participate in development activities could be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. We have made, and in the future might make, substantial capital investments in new telecommunications projects which may be subject to liquidity and execution risk and, if not offset by additional revenue, might adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We have made, and might in the future make, substantial additional investments in new telecommunications projects, including in connection with technology upgrades and geographic expansion. These investments could require significant capital expenditures. The Company expended approximately Rs.10,208 million (US$ 229 million) towards capital expenditure in fiscal 2006 and expects its capital expenditure (including its subsidiaries) in fiscal 2007 to be approximately Rs.36,910 million (US$829.81 million). The acquisitions made by the Company in the past and its commitments in its South African venture have caused the Company to substantially utilize its internal accruals and raise debt. The Company has announced and may in the future announce such cable projects. Such projects entail engineering, construction, obsolescence and other normal commercial risks, and there can be no assurance that the projects currently contemplated by us will not encounter cost overruns or project delays or will be completed or will operate as planned. The Company has continued to invest in its Broadband project and shall continue to evaluate and invest in various technologies and options of providing Broadband services in India to its customers. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that financing for these investments, whether within India or elsewhere, would be available on attractive terms or at all. Furthermore, telecommunications technology evolves rapidly and there can be no assurance that any investments in new technology will have a positive impact on the Company’s financial results and neither can there be any assurance that the Company’s capital expenditures in such projects will be offset by adequate additional revenue or margins. We may enter into arrangements for exchange of similar assets, traffic, services and other swapping arrangements, which may not be always beneficial to the Company. The company may enter into agreements with other telecom operators and telecom asset owners for exchange of assets, including swapping of capacities, restoration arrangements, etc. Due to changes in the competitive scenario and other factors prevailing in the telecom industry, the company may not be always in a position to ensure an equitable exchange. The company will disclose such arrangements in its financial statements and also in its future filings. 14 Table of Contents Absence of a robust Business Continuity Plan could affect our business adversely The Company’s operations are dependent on various IT systems and applications. Absence of a robust Business Continuity Plan can seriously impact our business in the event of a disaster of any nature. Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including managed services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services that are delivered over our network. These new services are intended to allow us to address new segments of the communications marketplace and to compete for additional customers. In certain instances, the introduction of new services requires the successful development of new technology. To the extent that upgrades of existing technology are required for the introduction of new services, the success of these upgrades may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings, including new managed services, may not be widely accepted by our customers. If our new service offerings are not widely accepted by our customers, we may terminate those service offerings and be required to impair any assets or information technology used to develop or offer those services. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new managed services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially adversely affected. We are exposed to potential liability due to network failure or delays and errors in transmissions. We use a collection of communications equipment, software and other applications for the high-speed transportation of large quantities of voice and data among multiple locations and geographies. Our success depends largely on our ability to deliver competitively priced, uninterrupted international telecommunications services. Any system or network failure that interrupts our operations could prevent us from providing some or all of our services. Given the complexity of our network, it may be possible that voice and data will be lost or distorted. Delays in voice and data delivery may cause significant losses to a customer using our network. Our network may also contain undetected design faults and software bugs that, despite our testing, may not be discovered in time to prevent harm to our network. The failure of any equipment or facility on the network could result in the interruption of customer service until we effect necessary repairs or install replacement equipment. Network failures, delays, and errors could also result from natural disasters, power losses, security breaches, acts of terror, and computer viruses. These failures, faults, or errors could cause delays or service interruptions, damage our reputation, expose us to loss of customers or customer liability, or require expensive modifications, any of which circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We may identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses as we implement procedures designed to comply with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Commencing with our annual report for the year ending March 31, 2007, we are required to include a report from our management relating to evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. As a consequence of the systems and procedures currently being implemented in order to comply with these requirements, we may uncover circumstances that may be determined to be significant deficiencies, material weaknesses or other reportable conditions. Our measures to remedy these may involve significant effort, expense and the commitment of significant managerial resources. Additionally, depending on the nature and extent of any identified significant deficiency or material weakness, we may also be required to restate previously issued financial statements. Each of such actions may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations and the trading price of our securities. The Company has also initiated an exercise under the Enterprise-wide Risk Management mechanism and this effort may lead to Company identifying various additional risk, whether operating or otherwise, which may require the Company to spend considerable resources to mitigate such risks. 15 Table of Contents Our business requires the continued development of effective business support systems to implement customer orders and to provide and bill for services Our business depends on our ability to continue to develop effective business support systems and in particular the development of these systems for use by customers who intend to use our services in their own service offering. This is a complicated undertaking requiring significant resources and expertise and support from third-party vendors. Business support systems are needed for: • implementing customer orders for services; • provisioning, installing and delivering these services; and • monthly billing for these services. Because our business provides for continued rapid growth in the number and volume of services offered, there is a need to continue to develop these business support systems on a schedule sufficient to meet proposed service rollout dates. The failure to continue to develop effective business support systems could materially adversely affect our ability to implement our business plans. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business. We believe that our success in the future will depend to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We expect to experience significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. Our business is managed by a team of key executive officers and their immediate teams. Loss of any of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have recently announced restructuring plans in our international operations. The success of these plans is integral to achieving synergies and improving the financial performance of these operations. In the event these plans are not successfully implemented due to internal or external reasons, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we become the victim of fraud or theft of services The industry in which we operate has incurred losses in the last several years due to fraud. Unauthorized transactions or theft of our services could reduce our profitability substantially. Although we have implemented various measures in order to control losses relating to fraudulent practices, we may not succeed in effectively controlling fraud when operating in the international or domestic telecommunications markets. We endeavor to manage these theft and fraud risks through our internal controls and our monitoring systems. We believe that our risk management practices will be adequate but there is no guarantee that we may succeed in effectively controlling fraud. The Company is substantially owned by the Tata Group and the Government of India, who have significant rights in relation to the election of the Company’s board of directors and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders including holders of our ADSs. As of 31 March 2006, Panatone Finvest Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of companies affiliated with the Tata Group, owns approximately 40.61 percent, and the Government of India owns approximately 26.12 percent, of our total outstanding equity. Other Tata Group companies own approximately 4.54 percent of our total outstanding equity. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement pursuant to which they have agreed on certain matters with respect to the governance and operation of the Company, including the composition and election of the board of directors. As of July 31, 2006, our board of directors consisted of ten members, four of whom were nominated by Panatone Finvest Limited and two of whom were nominated by the Government. There were four independent directors on the board as per the provisions of the Shareholders’ Agreement. As a result of their equity holdings and the Shareholders’ Agreement, Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government together have significant control over the matters coming up for consideration at the meetings of the Board and of the shareholders of the Company and they acting together at the meetings have the power to elect the directors and control all matters submitted to shareholders. There can be no assurance that the interests of Panatone Finvest Limited and/or the Government would be the same and their respective interests could differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including the holders of ADSs. 16 Table of Contents The Company may face potential conflicts of interest relating to its principal shareholder, the Tata Group. The Tata Group has diverse business activities and interests, and some of its affiliates could engage in activities, or seek opportunities, that are or could be in competition with the activities or interests of the Company. The Tata Group has interests in other companies in the telecommunications sector, such as Tata Teleservices Limited. The Tata Group companies and Panatone Finvest Limited have agreed in a Shareholders’ Agreement to act in the best interests of the Company in the event that they become engaged in activities in competition with the Company. However, any conflicts of interest between these Tata Group companies and/or Panatone Finvest Limited and the Company could adversely affect the Company’s business. Disagreements between the Tata Group and the Government concerning activities of the Company could result in a deadlock, which could adversely affect the Company’s business. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government have agreed in the Shareholders’ Agreement that the Company shall not undertake certain corporate actions unless at least one director nominated by each of them (in the case of a Board meeting) or at least one authorized representative nominated by each of them (in the case of a shareholder meeting) consents to such action. These actions include any change in the Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, the granting of any security or incurring of indebtedness in excess of the net worth of the Company, winding-up the Company, the making of loans in excess of Rs.500 million other than in the ordinary course of business, the sale or lease of any fixed assets acquired prior to privatization and the entering into of an amalgamation, merger, or consolidation. Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government have also agreed not to transfer their shares in the Company without giving the other certain rights of first refusal and tag along rights. In the event that Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government fail to agree on any such matter, their disagreement could result in the Company not taking action or not taking advantage of a potential opportunity, which could in turn adversely affect the Company’s business or the value of the Company’s ADSs or Equity Shares. The demerger of surplus land held by the Company may not be completed on satisfactory terms. Under the terms of the Shareholders’ Agreement, Panatone Finvest Limited agreed that the Company would demerge certain lands that the Company owns in Pune, Kolkata, New Delhi and Chennai, India into a separate company. No time period was specified in the agreement for such demerger. The Company, Panatone Finvest Limited and the Government are currently discussing various options in connection with the demerger or sale of the land with a view to completing a transaction that is beneficial from a tax and stamp duty perspective. Until such time as the demerger takes place, the lands are under the possession and upkeep of the Company. The Company cannot predict if the demerger will take place or the expenditure that the Company might have to incur for the security, upkeep and maintenance of the surplus land. The Company may have to bear significant costs, including taxes and duties, relating to the demerger, and the Company cannot predict what effect, if any, the demerger and the legal and valuation process relating to the demerger will have on the Company’s financial condition. The Company’s business may be adversely affected by any slowdown in economic growth in India, the United States or other countries where the Company does business or by a slowdown in the growth of the information technology sector. The growth of telecommunications traffic is related to general economic growth and slowdowns in the Indian economy could result in slower growth rates in telecommunications traffic in India. A significant part of the Company’s revenues are derived from calls originating in the United States. During the year ended March 2006, approximately 15.87 percent of the Company’s operating revenue was from the United States. Slowdowns in the US economy, as well as in other countries where the Company does significant business, may negatively affect our business. The information technology (“IT”) sector is a major contributor to the telephony and leased channel revenues of the Company and therefore the Company’s revenues might be adversely affected by slowdowns in the IT sector. 17 Table of Contents Litigation could be harmful and costly to our business. We are defending material litigation described in Item 8 –”Legal Proceedings”. Regardless of the outcome, we will incur substantial legal cost (including damages which other party may demand). In addition, this type of litigation may strain our resources and divert management attention, causing our business to suffer. Further, any adverse outcomes in such lawsuits could materially adversely affect our financial condition or operating results. A substantial portion of Company’s assets are located in India and the outstanding shares are listed on the Indian stock exchanges. Accordingly, the Company’s performance, the market price and liquidity of the shares and of the ADS may be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, government policy and taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive Governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian central and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators remains significant in ways that affect all Indian companies, including the Company. India held elections for a new Government in April-May 2004 and the Government changed for the sixth time since 1996. Since no party won a majority of the seats in the Lok Sabha (the lower house of Parliament) in the elections, the present Government is made up of a multiparty coalition. There can be no assurance that the Government, which is presently supported by other political allies, will continue to receive such support. The next general elections are due to be held in 2009. Political instability could delay the reforms of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse affect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our shares and ADS. While the Government has pledged to go ahead with its reforms, given the dynamics of coalition politics, there can be no assurance that all the previous Government’s reform policies will be carried forward. Although we believe that economic liberalization will continue in the future, there is no assurance that this will be so. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and the Company’s business. Terrorist attacks, such as the ones that occurred in US and India in 2001 and in Mumbai, India in 2003 and 2006 and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect the Indian markets where the Company’s equity shares trade and also adversely affect the world-wide financial markets. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence, make travel and other services more difficult and ultimately adversely affect the Company’s business. There can be no assurance that there will not be any further terrorist attacks against India, the United States or any other country. Also as a result of such events, India, the United States or certain other countries where the Company has or may have major business interests may enter into armed conflict with other countries. The consequences of any potential armed conflicts are unpredictable. In addition, India has from time to time experienced unrest relating to religious and political differences within India’s population, as well as with its neighboring country Pakistan. Any increase in regional or international hostilities, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could have a significant adverse impact on international or Indian financial markets or economic conditions or on Indian Government policy, thereby disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business, or the market price for the Company’s Shares and the ADSs. 18 Table of Contents Conditions in the Indian securities market may affect the price or liquidity of the shares and the ADSs. The Indian securities markets are smaller in terms of trading volume and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities. It is generally perceived that there is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants than in securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have experienced trading interruptions in the past on account of regulatory interventions as well as operational issues. If these interruptions were to recur, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including the Shares and ADSs, in both domestic and international markets. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the Shares and the ADSs. There may be less company information available in Indian securities markets than securities markets in developed countries. There is a difference between the level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other participants and that in markets in the United States and other developed economies. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) received statutory powers in 1992 to improve disclosure and other regulatory standards for the Indian securities markets. SEBI has prescribed certain regulations and guidelines in relation to disclosure requirements, insider trading and other matters relevant to the Indian securities market. There may, however, be less publicly available information about Indian companies than is regularly made available by public companies in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Company and you may be subject to potential losses arising out of exchange rate risk on the Indian rupee and risks associated with the conversion rates between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and the Dollar will affect, among other things, the Dollar equivalents of the price of the Shares in Rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the Dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the Dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Rupees of a sale of Shares in India. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee, the SDR (or “Special Drawing Rights”, which are based on a basket of key international currencies and are frequently used in foreign currency payment settlements) and other currencies also affect the Rupee amount of foreign currency settlement payments received by the Company from, and paid by the Company to, foreign telecommunications administrations and therefore the revenue and operating costs of the Company. The Company may as a result be exposed to the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies, which effectively may increase the cost in Rupee terms of foreign exchange payments required to be made by the Company, including payments to foreign telecommunications administrations and payments for imported equipment and technology. To reduce the effect of exchange rate fluctuation on our operating result, the Company uses derivative instruments such as forward contracts to cover a portion of outstanding accounts receivables; however, there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to avoid the adverse affects of exchange rate fluctuations. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against the Company. The Company is a limited liability company organized under the laws of India. All of the directors and officers of the Company and certain other persons named herein are residents of India, and all or a significant portion of the assets of all of the directors and officers and a substantial portion of the assets of the Company are located in India. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process upon the Company or such directors or officers outside India or to enforce against them judgments obtained from courts outside India, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. The statutory basis for determining conclusiveness of foreign judgments in India is provided in Section 13 of the Code of Civil Procedure 1908 (the “Code”) of India, which provides that a foreign judgment shall be conclusive as to any matter thereby directly adjudicated upon except (1) where the judgment has not been pronounced by a court of competent jurisdiction, (2) where the judgment has not been given on the merits of the case, (3) where the judgment appears on the face of the proceedings to be founded on an incorrect view of international law or a refusal to recognize the law of India in cases where such law is applicable, (4) where the proceedings in which the judgment was obtained were opposed to natural justice, (5) where the judgment has been obtained by fraud and (6) where the judgment sustains a claim founded on a breach of any law in force in India. Section 44A of the Code, which deals with the enforcement and execution of foreign judgments, provides that where a foreign judgment has been rendered by a court in any country or territory outside India which the Government of India has by notification declared to be a reciprocating territory, it may be enforced in India by proceedings in execution as if the judgment had been rendered by the relevant court in India. The United Kingdom, but not the United States, has been declared by the Government of India to be a reciprocating territory for the purposes of Section 44A. Accordingly, a judgment of a court in the United States may be enforced only by way of a suit instituted upon the judgment in accordance with the Code and not by proceedings in execution. Furthermore, it is uncertain that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any amount recovered. 19 Table of Contents RISK RELATED TO THE ADSs Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our equity shares or the perception that such sales may occur could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our equity shares or the ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the issue or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares or the availability of our equity shares for future sales, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. Holders of ADSs have no voting rights. Investors in ADSs have no voting rights unlike holders of the Equity Shares who have voting rights. It is contemplated that the Depositary will exercise its right to vote on the Equity Shares represented by the ADSs as directed by the Company’s Board of Directors. Investors may withdraw the Equity Shares underlying the ADSs and seek to vote the Equity Shares obtained from the withdrawal. However, for foreign investors, this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. There is a limited market for the ADSs. Even though the ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is no assurance that any trading market for the ADSs will be sustained. Subsequent to the open/ tender offer by Panatone Finvest Limited, the number of shares represented by ADSs declined from approximately 60 million (21 percent of our issued and outstanding equity shares) as of March 31, 2002 to approximately 17 million (6 percent of our issued and outstanding equity shares) as of March 31, 2006. This may affect the liquidity of the market for the Company’s ADSs and the price at which they trade. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause the Company’s equity shares to trade at a discount or premium relative to the market price of its ADSs. Until recently, under Indian law it was not permitted for a depositary to accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADSs evidencing such shares. Thus, an investor in ADSs who surrendered an ADS and withdrew equity shares would not be permitted to redeposit those equity shares to obtain ADSs, nor would an investor who purchased equity shares on the Indian market be permitted to deposit them in the ADS program. The Government of India has recently permitted two-way fungibility of ADSs. However, this is still subject to sectoral caps and certain conditions, including compliance with the provisions of the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depositary Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993 and the periodic guidelines issued by the Government and also registration requirements in the United States. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause the Company’s Equity Shares to trade at a discount or premium to its ADSs. 20 Table of Contents An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. Under the Companies Act, 1956, or the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourth of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obliged to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision on whether to do so will depend on the costs and potential benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. 