ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, in analyzing an investment in our common stock. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely suffer, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you could lose all or part of the money you paid for our common stock. In addition, the following risk factors and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, whether made in this report or the other documents we file with the SEC, or our annual or quarterly reports to stockholders, future press releases, or oral statements, whether in presentations, responses to questions, or otherwise. Risks Related to Our Company We are heavily dependent upon the worldwide electronics industry, which is characterized by significant economic cycles and fluctuations in product demand. A significant downturn in the electronics industry could result in decreased demand for our manufacturing services and could lower our sales and gross margins. A majority of our revenue is generated from the electronics industry, which is characterized by intense competition, relatively short product life cycles, and significant fluctuations in product demand. Furthermore, the industry is subject to economic cycles and recessionary periods and has been negatively affected by the current contraction in the U.S. economy and in the worldwide electronics market. Moreover, due to the uncertainty in the end markets served by most of our customers, we have a low level of visibility with respect to future financial results. The current credit crisis and related turmoil in the financial system have negatively impacted the global economy and the electronics industry. A lasting economic recession, excess manufacturing capacity, or a prolonged decline in the electronics industry could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A decline in our sales could harm our profitability and results of operations and could require us to record an additional valuation allowance against our deferred income tax assets or recognize an impairment of our long-lived assets, including goodwill and other intangible assets. The global financial crisis may impact our business and financial condition in ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system have had and may continue to have an impact on our business and financial condition. In addition to the impact that the global financial crisis has already had on us, we may face significant challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve or continue to worsen. For example, continuation of the credit crisis could adversely impact overall demand in the electronics industry, which could have a negative effect on our revenues and profitability. In addition, our ability to access the capital markets may be severely restricted at a time when we would like, or need, to do so, which could have an impact on our flexibility to react to changing economic and business conditions or our ability to pursue acquisitions. During periods of excess global printed circuit board manufacturing capacity, our gross margins may fall and/or we may have to incur restructuring charges if we choose to reduce the capacity of or close any of our facilities. When we experience excess capacity, our sales revenues may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and in such a case our gross margins will fall. In addition, we generally schedule our quick-turn production facilities at 12 Table of Contents less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to unexpected additional quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we may forego some production and could experience continued excess capacity. If we conclude we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close one or more of our facilities, and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs, and asset impairments. We face a risk that capital needed for our business and to repay our debt obligations will not be available when we need it. Additionally, our leverage and our debt service obligations may adversely affect our cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, we had total indebtedness of approximately $175.0 million, which represented approximately 34% of our total capitalization. If we complete the PCB Combination, we expect to have more than $450 million of additional indebtedness. Our indebtedness could have significant negative consequences, including: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing; • requiring the use of a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we compete; and • placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage to less leveraged competitors and competitors that have better access to capital resources. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks. As part of our business strategy, we expect that we will continue to grow by pursuing acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets, or product lines that complement or expand our business. Risks related to an acquisition may include: • the potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other expected value; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of our existing business to focus on integration of the newly acquired business; • unforeseen expenses associated with the integration of the newly acquired business; • difficulties in managing production and coordinating operations at new sites; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired operations; • the potential inability to retain existing customers of acquired companies when we desire to do so; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • the potential decrease in overall gross margins associated with acquiring a business with a different product mix; • the inability to identify certain unrecorded liabilities; • the potential need to restructure, modify, or terminate customer relationships of the acquired company; • an increased concentration of business from existing or new customers; and • the potential inability to identify assets best suited to our business plan. 13 Table of Contents Acquisitions may cause us to: • enter lines of business and/or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • issue debt and be required to abide by stringent loan covenants; • assume liabilities; • record goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • become subject to litigation and environmental issues, which include product material content certifications; • incur unanticipated costs; • incur large and immediate write-offs; • issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; and • incur substantial transaction-related costs, whether or not a proposed acquisition is consummated. Acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our recent or future acquisitions, including the proposed PCB Combination, will be successful and will not harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, product enhancements may not be made in a timely fashion. In addition, unforeseen issues might arise with respect to such products after the acquisition. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be negatively affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. This growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing, and other resources. In order to manage our growth, we may be required to continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, and failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. In addition, growth in our capacity could result in reduced capacity utilization and a corresponding decrease in gross margins. Our development plans involve significant capital expenditures and financing requirements, which are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our business is capital intensive. Our ability to increase revenue, profit, and cash flow depends upon continued capital spending. There can be no assurance as to whether — or at what cost — our anticipated capital projects will be completed, if they will be completed on schedule, or as to the success of these projects if completed. In addition, we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or obtain necessary external financing to finance our capital expenditures and investments. Further, our ability to obtain external financing in the future is subject to a variety of uncertainties, including the following: • our future results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows; • the condition of the global economy generally and the demand for our products, specifically; and • the cost of financing and the condition of financial markets. If adequate funds are not available on satisfactory terms, we may be forced to curtail our expansion plans, which could result in a loss of customers, the inability to successfully implement our business strategy, and limitations on the growth of our business. 14 Table of Contents We depend upon a relatively small number of OEM customers for a large portion of our sales, and a decline in sales to major customers could harm our results of operations. A small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion of our sales. Our five largest OEM customers accounted for approximately 34% and 29% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales attributed to OEMs include both direct sales as well as sales that the OEMs place through EMS providers. Our customer concentration could fluctuate, depending on future customer requirements, which will depend in large part on market conditions in the electronics industry segments in which our customers participate. The loss of one or more significant customers or a decline in sales to our significant customers could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition and lead to declines in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay for the manufacturing services provided by us, our results of operations would be harmed. In addition, during industry downturns, we may need to reduce prices at customer requests to limit the level of order losses; and we may be unable to collect payments from our customers. There can be no assurance that key customers would not cancel orders, that they would continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as experienced by us in prior periods, that they would be able to meet their payment obligations, or that the end-products which use our products would be successful. This concentration of customer base may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the loss or cancellation of business from any of these key customers, significant changes in scheduled deliveries to any of these customers, or decreases in the prices of the products sold to any of these customers. We compete against manufacturers in Asia, where production costs are lower. These competitors may gain market share in our key market segments, which may have an adverse effect on the pricing of our products. We may be at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with lower-cost facilities in Asia and other locations. We believe price competition from printed circuit board manufacturers in Asia and other locations with lower production costs may play an increasing role in the market. Although we do have a backplane assembly facility in China, we do not have offshore facilities for PCB manufacturing in lower-cost locations such as Asia. While historically our competitors in these locations have produced less technologically advanced printed circuit boards, they continue to expand their capacity and capabilities with advanced equipment to produce higher technology printed circuit boards. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may benefit these offshore competitors. As a result, these competitors may gain market share, which may force us to lower our prices, which would reduce our gross margins. A trend toward consolidation among our customers could adversely affect our business. Recently, some of our large customers have consolidated and further consolidation of customers may occur. Depending on which organization becomes the controller of the supply chain function following the consolidation, we may not be retained as a preferred or approved supplier. In addition, product duplication could result in the termination of a product line that we currently support. While there is potential for increasing our position with the combined customer, there does exist the potential for decreased revenue if we are not retained as a continuing supplier. We also face the risk of increased pricing pressure from the combined customer because of its increased market share. Our failure to comply with the requirements of environmental laws could result in litigation, fines and revocation of permits necessary to our manufacturing processes. Failure to operate in conformance with environmental laws could lead to debarment from our participation in federal government contracts. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization 15 Table of Contents Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act as well as analogous state, local, and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because our manufacturing processes use and generate materials classified as hazardous. Because we use hazardous materials and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing processes, we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with the investigation and remediation of our own sites, or sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated. Even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and are not directly at fault for the contamination, we may still be liable. The wastes we generate include spent ammoniacal and cupric etching solutions, metal stripping solutions, waste acid solutions, waste alkaline cleaners, waste oil, and waste waters that contain heavy metals such as copper, tin, lead, nickel, gold, silver, cyanide, and fluoride, and both filter cake and spent ion exchange resins from equipment used for on-site waste treatment. Any material violations of environmental laws or failure to maintain required environmental permits could subject us to fines, penalties, and other sanctions, including the revocation of our effluent discharge permits, which could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Even if we ultimately prevail, environmental lawsuits against us would be time consuming and costly to defend. Prior to our acquisition of our PCG business, PCG made legal commitments to the U.S. EPA and to the State of Connecticut regarding settlement of enforcement actions related to the PCG operations in Connecticut. The obligations include fulfillment of a Compliance Management Plan until July 1, 2009 and installation of two rinse water recycling systems at the Stafford, Connecticut facilities. To date we have installed one of the two recycling systems. Failure to meet the remaining commitment could result in further costly enforcement actions, including exclusion from participation in defense and other federal contracts, which would materially harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Environmental laws also could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation. We operate in environmentally sensitive locations, and we are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business, and environmental groups. Changes or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, material storage, handling, or disposal might require a high level of unplanned capital investment or global relocation. It is possible that environmental compliance costs and penalties from new or existing regulations may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are increasingly required to certify compliance with various material content restrictions in our products based on laws of various jurisdictions or territories such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directives in the European Union and China’s RoHS legislation. New York City has adopted identical restrictions and many U.S. states are considering similar rules and legislation. In addition, we must also certify as to the non-applicability to the EU’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive for certain products that we manufacture. The REACH directive requires adoption of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) periodically. We must survey our supply chain and certify to the non-presence or presence of SVHCs to our customers. Currently, two lists totaling 29 SVHCs have been adopted by the EU. As with other types of product certifications that we routinely provide, we may incur liability and pay damages if our products do not conform to our certifications. New regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment or to incur other significant expenses. Any failure by us following the proposed PCB Combination to control the use of, or adequately restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances could subject us to substantial future liabilities. We are also subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the People’s Republic of China, or PRC, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The manufacturing of our products generates gaseous chemical wastes, liquid wastes, waste water and other industrial wastes in various stages of the manufacturing process. Production sites in the PRC are subject to regulation and periodic monitoring by the relevant environmental protection authorities. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production, 16 Table of Contents or cessation of operations. If the PCB Combination is effected, our exposure to environmental laws and regulations of the PRC would increase. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted by climate change initiatives. Our manufacturing processes require that we purchase significant quantities of energy from third parties, which results in the generation of greenhouse gasses, either directly on-site or indirectly at electric utilities. Both domestic and international legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions and establishing a price on carbon could create increases in energy costs and price volatility. Considerable international attention is now focused on development of an international policy framework to guide international action to address climate change. Proposed and existing legislative efforts to control or limit greenhouse gas emissions could affect our energy source and supply choices as well as increase the cost of energy and raw materials derived from sources that generate greenhouse gas emissions. The U.S. Defense Security Service and the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, or CFIUS, may take measures to protect classified projects and national security. Due to the substantial foreign ownership of our shares that would result from the proposed PCB Combination, the U.S. Defense Security Service and CFIUS may take measures to protect classified projects and national security. Certain measures and conditions may be imposed on us, which may materially and adversely affect our operating results, due to the impact of implementing security measures limiting our control over certain U.S. facilities, contracts, personnel, and operations. We are subject to the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual for our facility security clearance, which is a prerequisite to our ability to perform on classified contracts for the U.S. government. A facility security clearance is required in order to be awarded and perform on classified contracts for the U.S. Department of Defense and certain other agencies of the U.S. government. We currently perform on several classified contracts. As a cleared entity, we must comply with the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or NISPOM, and any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations. Further, due to the fact that immediately following the PCB Combination, if effected, a significant portion of our voting equity will be owned by a non-U.S. entity, we expect that following the closing of the PCB Combination we will be required to be governed by and operate in accordance with the terms and requirements of a Special Security Agreement, or SSA, with the U.S. Department of Defense. If we were to violate the terms and requirements of the SSA, the NISPOM, or any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations (which may apply to us under the terms of our classified contracts), we could lose our security clearance. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our security clearance. If for some reason our security clearance is invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform classified contracts and would not be able to enter into new classified contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues. We export defense and commercial products from the United States to other countries. If we were to fail to comply with export laws, we could be subject to fines and other punitive actions. Exports from the United States are regulated by the U.S. Department of State and U.S. Department of Commerce, and exports from the PRC are regulated by certain PRC authorities. Other foreign countries also regulate exports of products that may be manufactured by us. Failure to comply with these regulations can result in significant fines and penalties. Additionally, violations of these laws can result in punitive penalties, which would restrict or prohibit us from exporting certain products, resulting in significant harm to our business. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets. Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with standard industry payment terms. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts 17 Table of Contents we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. During periods of economic downturn in the electronics industry and the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. Our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 52% and 50% of our net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additionally, our OEM customers often direct a significant portion of their purchases through a relatively limited number of EMS companies. Our contractual relationship is often with the EMS companies, who are obligated to pay us for our products. Because we expect our OEM customers to continue to direct our sales to EMS companies, we expect to continue to be subject to this credit risk with a limited number of EMS customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay us, our results of operations would be harmed. Some of our customers are EMS companies located abroad. Our exposure has increased as these foreign customers continue to expand. With the primary exception of sales from our facility in China and a portion of sales from our Ireland sales office, our foreign sales are denominated in U.S. dollars and are typically on the same “open credit” basis and terms described above. Our foreign receivables were approximately 24% of our net accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009 and are expected to continue to grow as a percentage of our total receivables. We do not utilize credit insurance as a risk management tool. We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of raw materials and components used in manufacturing our printed circuit boards and backplane assemblies, and an increase in industry demand or the presence of a shortage for these raw materials or components may increase the price of these raw materials or components and reduce our gross margins. If a raw material supplier fails to satisfy our product quality standards, it could harm our customer relationships. To manufacture printed circuit boards, we use raw materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil, chemical solutions, gold, and other commodity products, which we order from our suppliers. Although we have preferred suppliers for most of these raw materials, the materials we use are generally readily available in the open market, and numerous other potential suppliers exist. In the case of backplane assemblies, components include connectors, sheet metal, capacitors, resistors and diodes, many of which are custom made and controlled by our customers’ approved vendors. These components for backplane assemblies in some cases have limited or sole sources of supply. From time to time, we may experience increases in raw material or component prices, based on demand trends, which can negatively affect our gross margins. In addition, consolidations and restructuring in our supplier base may result in adverse materials pricing due to reduction in competition among our suppliers. Furthermore, if a raw material or component supplier fails to satisfy our product quality standards, it could harm our customer relationships. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices, due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could harm our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. We have recently experienced an increase in the price we pay for gold. In general, we are able to pass this price increase on to our customers, but we cannot be certain we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change and process development, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our manufacturing services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continual implementation of new production processes. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to manufacture products that meet changing customer needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. We expect that the investment necessary to maintain our technological position will increase as customers make demands for products and services requiring more advanced technology on a quicker turnaround basis. We may not be able to raise additional funds in order to respond to technological changes as quickly as our competitors. In addition, the printed circuit board industry could encounter competition from new or revised manufacturing and production technologies that render existing manufacturing and production technology less competitive or obsolete. We may not respond effectively to the technological requirements of the changing market. If we need new 18 Table of Contents technologies and equipment to remain competitive, the development, acquisition, and implementation of those technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. If we are unable to provide our customers with high-end technology, high quality products, and responsive service, or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In order to maintain our existing customer base and obtain business from new customers, we must demonstrate our ability to produce our products at the level of technology, quality, responsiveness of service, timeliness of delivery, and at costs that our customers require. If our products are of substandard quality, if they are not delivered on time, if we are not responsive to our customers’ demands, or if we cannot meet our customers’ technological requirements, our reputation as a reliable supplier of our products would likely be damaged. If we are unable to meet these product and service standards, we may be unable to obtain new contracts or keep our existing customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture products to our customers’ specifications, which are highly complex and may contain design or manufacturing errors or failures, despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing, or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, a reduction or cancellation of purchase orders, or liability claims against us. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Our sales mix has shifted towards standard delivery time products, which have larger production runs, thereby increasing our exposure to these types of defects. Since our products are used in products that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers beyond the cost of the printed circuit board, for which we may be liable. Although our invoices and sales arrangements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability and related claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to purchase such insurance coverage in the future on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization rates, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Given the high fixed costs of our operations, decreases in capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on our business. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or enhance gross margins would continue to depend, in part, on maintaining satisfactory capacity utilization rates. In turn, our ability to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization would depend on the demand for our products, the volume of orders we receive, and our ability to offer products that meet our customers’ requirements at competitive prices. If current or future production capacity fails to match current or future customer demands, our facilities would be underutilized and we would be less likely to achieve expected gross margins. Competition in the printed circuit board market is intense, and we could lose market share if we are unable to maintain our current competitive position in end markets using our quick-turn, high technology and high-mix manufacturing services. The printed circuit board industry is intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and rapidly changing. We expect competition to continue, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our principal North American PCB competitors include DDi, Endicott Interconnect Technologies, Firan Technology Group, ISU/Petasys, Viasystems, Pioneer Circuits, and Sanmina-SCI. Our principal international PCB competitors include Elec & Eltek, Hitachi, Ibiden, ISU/Petasys and Multek. Our principal assembly competitors include Amphenol, Sanmina-SCI, Simclar, TT Electronics, and Viasystems. In addition, we increasingly compete on an international basis, and new and emerging technologies may result in new competitors entering our markets. 19 Table of Contents Some of our competitors and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • greater financial and manufacturing resources that can be devoted to the development, production, and sale of their products; • more established and broader sales and marketing channels; • more manufacturing facilities worldwide, some of which are closer in proximity to OEMs; • manufacturing facilities that are located in countries with lower production costs; • lower capacity utilization, which in peak market conditions can result in shorter lead times to customers; • ability to add additional capacity faster or more efficiently; • preferred vendor status with existing and potential customers; • greater name recognition; and • larger customer bases. In addition, these competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we do. We must continually develop improved manufacturing processes to meet our customers’ needs for complex products, and our manufacturing process technology is generally not subject to significant proprietary protection. During recessionary periods in the electronics industry, our strategy of providing quick-turn services, an integrated manufacturing solution, and responsive customer service may take on reduced importance to our customers. As a result, we may need to compete more on the basis of price, which could cause our gross margins to decline. Periodically, printed circuit board manufacturers and backplane assembly providers experience overcapacity. Overcapacity, combined with weakness in demand for electronic products, results in increased competition and price erosion for our products. Our results of operations are often subject to demand fluctuations and seasonality. With a high level of fixed operating costs, even small revenue shortfalls would decrease our gross margins and potentially cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our results of operations fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including: • timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; • the levels at which we utilize our manufacturing capacity; • price competition; • changes in our mix of revenues generated from quick-turn versus standard delivery time services; • expenditures, charges or write-offs, including those related to acquisitions, facility restructurings, or asset impairments; and • expenses relating to expanding existing manufacturing facilities. A significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may decrease our gross margins. In addition, we have experienced sales fluctuations due to seasonal patterns in the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles, as well as inventory management practices of our customers and the end markets we serve. In particular, the seasonality of the computer industry and quick-turn ordering patterns affect the overall printed circuit board industry. These seasonal trends have caused fluctuations in our operating results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock likely would decline. 20 Table of Contents Because we sell on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our customers that could decrease revenues and harm our operating results. We generally sell to customers on a purchase order basis rather than pursuant to long-term contracts. Our quick-turn orders are subject to particularly short lead times. Consequently, our sales are subject to short-term variability in demand by our customers. Customers submitting purchase orders may cancel, reduce, or delay their orders for a variety of reasons. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers may vary, due to: • customer attempts to manage inventory; • changes in customers’ manufacturing strategies, such as a decision by a customer to either diversify or consolidate the number of printed circuit board manufacturers or backplane assembly service providers used or to manufacture or assemble its own products internally; • variation in demand for our customers’ products; and • changes in new product introductions. We have periodically experienced terminations, reductions, and delays in our customers’ orders. Further terminations, reductions, or delays in our customers’ orders could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The increasing prominence of EMS providers in the printed circuit board industry could reduce our gross margins, potential sales, and customers. Sales to EMS providers represented approximately 47% and 52% of our net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Sales to EMS providers include sales directed by OEMs as well as orders placed with us at the EMS providers’ discretion. EMS providers source on a global basis to a greater extent than OEMs. The growth of EMS providers increases the purchasing power of such providers and could result in increased price competition or the loss of existing OEM customers. In addition, some EMS providers, including some of our customers, have the ability to directly manufacture printed circuit boards and create backplane assemblies. If a significant number of our other EMS customers were to acquire these abilities, our customer base might shrink, and our sales might decline substantially. Moreover, if any of our OEM customers outsource the production of PCBs and creation of backplane assemblies to these EMS providers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. If events or circumstances occur in our business that indicate that our goodwill and definite-lived intangibles may not be recoverable, we could have impairment charges that would negatively affect our earnings. As of December 31, 2009, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $29.2 million of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. We periodically evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred, such that the potential for reduced expectations for future cash flows coupled with further decline in the market price of our stock and market capitalization may indicate that the remaining balance of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. If factors indicate that assets are impaired, we would be required to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets, which could harm our results during the periods in which such a reduction is recognized. Our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may increase in future periods if we consummate other acquisitions. Amortization or impairment of these additional intangibles would, in turn, reduce our earnings. Damage to our manufacturing facilities due to fire, natural disaster, or other events could harm our financial results. We have U.S. manufacturing and assembly facilities in California, Connecticut, Utah, and Wisconsin. We also have an assembly facility in China. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, blizzard, act of war or terrorism, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, or other natural 21 Table of Contents disaster could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Our manufacturing processes depend on the collective industry experience of our employees. If a significant number of these employees were to leave us, it could limit our ability to compete effectively and could harm our financial results. We have limited patent or trade secret protection for our manufacturing processes. We rely on the collective experience of our employees involved in our manufacturing processes to ensure we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies in our industry. Although we are not dependent on any one employee or a small number of employees, if a significant number of our employees involved in our manufacturing processes were to leave our employment, and we were not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable experience, our manufacturing processes might suffer as we might be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry. As a result, we may lose our ability to continue to compete effectively. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties that could be costly to defend, could divert management’s attention and resources, and if successful, could result in liability. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. All of these measures afford only limited protection. These measures may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged, and others may develop technologies or processes that are similar or superior to our technology. We may not have the controls and procedures in place that are needed to adequately protect proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our products or obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary, which could adversely impact our revenues and financial condition. Furthermore, there is a risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. As is the case with many other companies in the PCB industry, we from time to time receive communications from third parties asserting patent rights to our products and enter into discussions with such third parties. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur costs in either defending or settling any intellectual property disputes alleging infringement. If any claims are brought against the customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defending such claims. In the event we are subject to any infringement claims, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or in obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all, which could disrupt the production processes, damage our reputation, and affect our revenues and financial condition. We depend heavily on a single customer, the U.S. government, for a substantial portion of our business, including programs subject to security classification restrictions on information. Changes affecting the government’s capacity to do business with us or our direct customers or the effects of competition in the defense industry could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government and is therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. We are a supplier, primarily as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. These contracts are subject to the respective customers’ political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in customers’ short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, and in the case of contracts with the U.S. government, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government’s ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or prospects. 22 Table of Contents Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives discontinues employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled engineering and sales staff. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key managerial employees. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. Our business also depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train, and retain highly qualified employees, particularly engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies depends in part on our ability to retain key management and existing employees at the time of the acquisition. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them that have increasingly restrictive terms and conditions. These agreements typically include provisions that increase our financial exposure, which could result in significant costs to us. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them. These agreements typically include provisions that generally serve to increase our exposure for product liability and warranty claims — as compared to our standard terms and conditions — which could result in higher costs to us as a result of such claims. In addition, these agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our operational and pricing flexibility and extend payment terms, which can adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. Our backplane assembly operation serves customers and has a manufacturing facility outside the United States and is subject to the risks characteristic of international operations. These risks include significant potential financial damage and potential loss of the business and its assets. Because we have a manufacturing operation in Asia and sales offices located in Asia and Europe, we are subject to the risks of changes in economic and political conditions in those countries, including but not limited to: • managing international operations; • export license requirements; • fluctuations in the value of local currencies; • labor unrest and difficulties in staffing; • government or political unrest; • longer payment cycles; • language and communication barriers as well as time zone differences; • cultural differences; • increases in duties and taxation levied on our products; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • limitations on imports or exports of our product offering; • travel restrictions; • expropriation of private enterprises; and • the potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment and trade. Our operations in the PRC subject us to risks and uncertainties relating to the laws and regulations of the PRC. Under its current leadership, the government of the PRC has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. No assurance can be given, however, that the government of the PRC will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will 23 Table of Contents be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. Despite progress in developing its legal system, the PRC does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly with respect to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and implementation and interpretation thereof may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. Further, any litigation in the PRC may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, some government policies and rules are not timely published or communicated, if they are published at all. As a result, we may operate our business in violation of new rules and policies without having any knowledge of their existence. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. Consummation of the PCB Combination would result in us having a substantially greater presence in and exposure to the PRC. The economies of the countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by a recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or an outbreak of other epidemics such as H1N1 or avian flu. Past occurrences of epidemics or pandemics, depending on their scale of occurrence, have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in the affected countries. A recurrence of SARS or an outbreak of any other epidemics or pandemics, such as the H1N1 influenza or avian flu, especially in the areas where we have operations, or where we may have operations in the future, may result in quarantines, temporary closures of offices and manufacturing facilities, travel restrictions, or the temporary or permanent loss of key personnel. The perception that an outbreak of contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of affected countries. Any of the above may cause material disruptions to our operations, which in turn may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations. A portion of our cash and other current assets is held in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately $32.9 million of current assets denominated in Chinese RMB. Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the value of these assets as translated to U.S. dollars in our balance sheet. To the extent that we ultimately decide to repatriate some portion of these funds to the United States, the actual value transferred could be impacted by movements in exchange rates. Any such type of movement could negatively impact the amount of cash available to fund operations or to repay debt. Significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, or changes in local interest rates. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the RMB cannot be predicted. To the extent that we may have outstanding indebtedness denominated in the RMB, the appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. Dollar will have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations (including the cost of servicing, and the value in our balance sheet of, the RMB-denominated indebtedness). Further, the PRC government imposes control over the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies. Pursuant to certain PRC regulations, conversion of RMB into foreign exchange from foreign exchange accounts in the PRC is based on, among other things, a board resolution declaring the distribution of a dividend and payment of profits. Remittance of such amounts to foreign investors from the foreign exchange accounts of the foreign invested enterprises in the PRC or conversion of the RMB into foreign currencies at designated foreign exchange banks for the remittance of dividends and profits do not require permission from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, and other applicable governmental authorities of the PRC do not impose restrictions on the category of recurring international payments and transfers. However, conversion of RMB into foreign currencies for capital account items, including direct investment, loans, and security investment, must be approved by SAFE and the relevant branch. These regulations and procedures subject us to further currency exchange risks. 24 Table of Contents Our business has benefited from OEMs deciding to outsource their PCB manufacturing and backplane assembly needs to us. If OEMs choose to provide these services in-house or select other providers, our business could suffer. Our future revenue growth partially depends on new outsourcing opportunities from OEMs. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our performance against other providers. They also evaluate the potential benefits of manufacturing their products themselves. To the extent that outsourcing opportunities are not available either due to OEM decisions to produce these products themselves or to use other providers, our financial results and future growth could be adversely affected. We may not be able to fully recover our costs for providing design services to our customers, which could harm our financial results. Although we enter into design service activities with purchase order commitments, the cost of labor and equipment to provide these services may in fact exceed what we are able to fully recover through purchase order coverage. We also may be subject to agreements with customers in which the cost of these services is recovered over a period of time or through a certain number of units shipped as part of the ongoing product price. While we may make contractual provisions to recover these costs in the event that the product does not go into production, the actual recovery can be difficult and may not happen in full. In other instances, the business relationship may involve investing in these services for a customer as an ongoing service not directly recoverable through purchase orders. In any of these cases, the possibility exists that some or all of these activities are considered costs of doing business, are not directly recoverable, and may adversely impact our operating results. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or in our assessment of the realizability of our deferred income tax assets or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries and states with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, as well as other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, which could affect our operating results. If our net earnings do not remain at or above recent levels, or we are not able to predict with a reasonable degree of probability that they will continue, we may have to record a valuation allowance against our net deferred income tax assets. As of December 31, 2009, we had net deferred income tax assets of approximately $44.1 million. Based on our forecast for future taxable earnings, we believe we will utilize the deferred income tax assets in future periods. However, if our estimates of future earnings are lower than expected, we may record a higher income tax provision due to a write down of our net deferred income tax assets, which would reduce our earnings per share. Risks Relating to the Proposed PCB Combination Failure to complete the proposed PCB Combination could adversely affect our future business and operations. The proposed PCB Combination is subject to the satisfaction of various closing conditions, including the approval by our stockholders and other conditions described in the Purchase Agreement that are outside the control 25 Table of Contents of us and Meadville. We cannot assure you that these conditions will be satisfied or that the PCB Combination will be successfully completed. In the event that the PCB Combination is not completed: • we would not realize the potential benefits of the PCB Combination, including the potentially enhanced financial and competitive position of the combined company; • our attention from day-to-day business may be diverted, we may lose key employees, and our relationships with our customers and partners may be disrupted as a result of uncertainties with regard to our business and prospects; and • we will incur and must pay significant costs and expenses related to the PCB Combination, such as legal, accounting, and advisory fees. Any such events could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our business could suffer due to the pendency and consummation of the proposed PCB Combination. The pendency and consummation of the PCB Combination may have a negative impact on our or, following the proposed PCB Combination, the combined company’s, ability to sell products and services, attract and retain key management, technical, sales, or other personnel, maintain and attract new customers, and maintain strategic relationships with third parties. For example, we, and following consummation of the PCB Combination the combined company, may experience the deferral, cancellation, or decline in the size or rate of orders for products or services or a deterioration in customer relationships. Any such events could harm our, and following the PCB Combination, the combined company’s, operating results and financial condition. The purchase price payable in the PCB Combination will not be adjusted for any changes in the price of our common stock or Meadville’s shares. A portion of the consideration payable in connection with the PCB Combination would be paid through the issuance to Meadville of 36.3 million shares of our common stock, and we will deliver to Meadville cash in the amount of $114.0 million and assume the outstanding debt of the PCB Subsidiaries of approximately $450 million. Under the Purchase Agreement, other than as a result of reclassifications, stock splits, stock dividends, and similar changes effected by us, neither the number of shares of our common stock to be issued nor the amount of cash to be delivered will be adjusted even if the market price of our common stock or Meadville’s shares fluctuates between the date of the stock purchase agreement and the closing date of the PCB Combination. The stock purchase and special dividend of our common stock and cash to Meadville’s shareholders may not be completed until a significant period of time has passed. Stock price changes may result from a variety of factors that are beyond the control of us or Meadville, including: • market reaction to the pendency of the PCB Combination and market assessment of the merits and risks of the PCB Combination and the likelihood of the PCB Combination being consummated; • changes in the respective businesses, operations, or prospects of our or Meadville’s PCB business; • governmental or litigation developments or regulatory considerations affecting us or the electronics industry; • general business, market, industry, or economic conditions; • the worldwide supply/demand balance for products in the PCB and electronics industry; and • other factors beyond the control of us or Meadville, including those described elsewhere in this “Risk Factors” section. Neither party is permitted to “walk away” from the PCB Combination or re-solicit the vote of its shareholders solely because of changes in the market price, and therefore value, of our common stock or Meadville’s shares through the closing date of the PCB Combination. Any reduction in our stock price would result in Meadville shareholders receiving less value in the PCB Combination. Conversely, any increase in our stock price would potentially result in Meadville, and ultimately Meadville shareholders, receiving greater value in the PCB 26 Table of Contents Combination. The specific dollar value per share of our common stock that Meadville, and ultimately Meadville shareholders, would receive upon completion of the PCB Combination will depend on, among other things, the market value of our common stock at that time and at the time of Meadville’s special dividend of our shares to Meadville’s shareholders. We may not realize the operating and financial benefits we expect from the PCB Combination. The post-acquisition integration of our company and the PCB Subsidiaries would be complex, time-consuming, and expensive, and may disrupt the day-to-day management and operation of our business. After the PCB Combination, the combined company would need to overcome significant challenges in order to realize any benefits or synergies from the PCB Combination. These challenges include the timely, efficient, and successful completion of a number of post-acquisition events, including the following: • integrating the operations of the companies; • implementing disclosure controls, internal controls, and financial reporting systems to comply with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, or U.S. GAAP, and U.S. securities laws and regulations required as a result of integration of the PCB Subsidiaries as part of a consolidated reporting company under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act; • retaining and assimilating the key personnel of each company; • resolving possible inconsistencies in operating and product standards, internal controls, procedures and policies, business cultures, corporate governance and reporting practices, and compensation methodologies between the companies; • retaining existing vendors and customers of the companies and attracting additional customers; • retaining strategic partners of each company and attracting new strategic partners; and • creating uniform business standards, procedures, policies, and information systems. The execution of these post-acquisition integration events would involve considerable risks and may not be successfully implemented, or if implemented, on a timely basis. These risks include the following: • potential disruption of ongoing business operations and distraction of the management of the combined company; • potential strain on financial and managerial controls and reporting systems and procedures of the combined company; • unanticipated expenses and potential delays related to integration of the operations, technology, and other resources of the companies; • potential impairment of relationships with employees, suppliers, and customers as a result of the inclusion and integration of management personnel; • greater than anticipated costs and expenses related to the PCB Combination or the integration of the respective businesses of us and the PCB Subsidiaries following the PCB Combination; • the difficulty of complying with government-imposed regulations in both the U.S. and the PRC, which may in many ways be materially different from one another; and • potential unknown liabilities associated with the PCB Combination and the combined operations. The combined company may not succeed in mitigating these risks or any other problems encountered in connection with the PCB Combination. The inability to successfully integrate the operations, technology, and personnel of our company and the PCB Subsidiaries, or any significant delay in achieving integration of the companies, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company after the PCB Combination and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock following the PCB Combination. 27 Table of Contents As a result of the PCB Combination, we and the PCB Subsidiaries as a combined company would be a substantially larger and broader organization, with a greater geographic diversity relative to our and Meadville’s current operations, and if management is unable to sufficiently manage the combined company, operating and financial results would suffer. As a result of the PCB Combination, the combined company would have significantly more employees, greater geographic diversity, and customers in multiple distribution channels. The combined company would face challenges inherent in efficiently managing an increased number of employees over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate policies, benefits, reporting, management, and compliance programs and systems. The inability to manage successfully the substantially larger and internationally diverse organization, or any significant delay in achieving successful management of the organization, could have a material adverse effect on the combined company and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. The combined company would need to invest in its operations to integrate us and the PCB Subsidiaries and to maintain and grow the combined business, and may need additional funds to do so. The combined company would depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop its business. We believe that the combined company can meet its capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash in hand, and available borrowings. If the combined company is unable to fund its capital requirements as currently planned, however, it would have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business, financial condition, and operating results. If the combined company does not achieve our expected operating results, the combined company would need to reallocate its sources and uses of operating cash flows. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair the ability of the combined company to make investments in the business or to integrate us and the PCB Subsidiaries. There is no assurance that the combined company would be able to borrow any such additional funds when needed on commercially acceptable terms or at all. Should the combined company need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, the combined company may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our or the PCB Subsidiaries’ current debt instruments. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity, our equity holders would suffer dilution. There can be no assurance that additional capital would be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. The PCB Combination could cause us or the PCB Subsidiaries to lose key personnel, which could materially affect the combined company’s business and require the combined company to incur substantial costs to recruit replacements for lost personnel. As a result of the PCB Combination, our current and prospective employees and the PCB Subsidiaries’ employees could experience uncertainty about their future roles within the combined company. This uncertainty may adversely affect their ability or willingness to continue with the combined company, and the ability of the combined company to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing, and technical personnel. Any failure to retain and attract key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our and the PCB Subsidiaries’ current business and the business of the combined company after the completion of the PCB Combination. General uncertainty related to the PCB Combination could harm us and Meadville. In response to the announcement and pendency of the proposed PCB Combination, customers may delay or defer purchasing decisions. If this were to occur, our and Meadville’s cash flows and revenue, respectively, and the revenues of the combined company, could decline materially or any anticipated increases in revenue could be lower than expected. Also, speculation regarding the likelihood of the closing of the PCB Combination could increase the volatility of our share price. Regulatory authorities may delay or impose conditions on approval of the PCB Combination, which may diminish the anticipated benefits of the PCB Combination. The completion of the PCB Combination requires the receipt of various approvals from governmental authorities, both in the U.S. and in the PRC, including certain antitrust approvals and completion of a review by the 28 Table of Contents U.S. Defense Security Service and the U.S. State Department. The antitrust and other regulatory approvals may take substantial time, and there can be no assurance that such approvals can be obtained. Failure to obtain these approvals in a timely manner may delay the completion of the PCB Combination, possibly for a significant period of time, or prevent the completion of the PCB Combination altogether. In addition, regulatory authorities may attempt to condition their approval of the PCB Combination on the imposition of conditions that could restrict the day-to-day operations of the combined company, including requiring the discontinuance of certain lines of business, that may have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s operating results or the value of our common stock after the PCB Combination is completed. Any delay in the completion of the PCB Combination or conditions on effecting the PCB Combination may diminish anticipated benefits or may result in additional transaction costs, loss of revenue, or other effects associated with uncertainty about the completion or terms of the PCB Combination. Both we and the PCB Subsidiaries, and the PCB Combination, may be subject to adverse regulatory requirements and conditions. A condition to completing the PCB Combination was the termination or expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, or the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act. We and Meadville previously made the required filings with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission and received notice from the Federal Trade Commission in January 2010 that our request for early termination of the review period had been granted. However, even after the termination of the waiting period of the Hart-Scott-Rodino Act, the Department of Justice or the Federal Trade Commission, as well as a foreign regulatory agency or government, state, or private persons, may challenge the PCB Combination at any time before or after its completion. We and Meadville cannot assure you that the Department of Justice or Federal Trade Commission or third parties would not try to prevent the PCB Combination or seek to impose restrictions or conditions on us or the PCB Subsidiaries. The PCB Combination is also subject to approval by CFIUS, which we obtained on February 2, 2010. The effectiveness of the PCB Combination is further conditioned upon the receipt of antitrust approvals from the applicable governmental authorities of the PRC. Such approvals may take a substantial amount of time to obtain and there can be no assurance that such approvals can be obtained in a timely manner or at all. Depending on the nature of any restrictions or conditions, these restrictions or conditions may jeopardize or delay completion of the PCB Combination or lessen the anticipated benefits of the PCB Combination. The U.S. Department of Justice, the SEC, and other governmental authorities have a broad range of civil and criminal sanction authority available to them under the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, referred to as the FCPA, and other laws, which they may seek to impose in appropriate circumstances. Recent civil and criminal settlements with a number of public corporations and individuals have included multi-million dollar fines, disgorgement, injunctive relief, guilty pleas, deferred prosecution agreements, and other sanctions, including requirements that corporations retain a monitor to oversee compliance with the FCPA. The combined company may incur significant expenses in instituting controls related to compliance with the FCPA. Due to the lack of back up facilities in the PRC, the combined company’s operations could be adversely affected by a shortage of utilities or a discontinuation of priority supply status offered for such utilities. The manufacturing of PCBs requires significant quantities of electricity and water. Meadville and the PCB Subsidiaries have historically purchased substantially all of the electrical power for their manufacturing plants in the PRC from local power plants. Because the PRC’s economy has recently been in a state of growth, the strain on the nation’s power plants is increasing, which has led to continuing power outages in various parts of the country. There may be times when the combined company’s operations in the PRC may be unable to obtain adequate sources of electricity to meet production requirements. Additionally, the combined company would not likely maintain any back-up power generation facilities for its operations, so if it were to lose power at any of its facilities it would be required to cease operations until power was restored. Any stoppage of power could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to meet its customers’ orders in a timely manner, thus potentially resulting in a loss of business and increased costs of manufacturing. In addition, the sudden cessation of power supply could damage the combined company’s equipment, resulting in the need for costly repairs or maintenance as well as damage to products in production, resulting in an increase in scrapped products. Similarly, the sudden cessation of the water supply to the PRC facilities could adversely affect the combined company’s ability to fulfill orders in a timely manner, potentially resulting in a loss of business and under-utilization of capacity. Various regions in the PRC have in the past experienced shortages of both electricity and water and unexpected interruptions of power supply. There 29 Table of Contents can be no assurance that the combined company’s required utilities would not in the future experience material interruptions, which could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock following the PCB Combination. If the anticipated benefits of the PCB Combination are not achieved, our financial results, including our earnings, could be adversely affected. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we would account for the PCB Combination using the purchase method of accounting. For accounting purposes, we would be considered the acquiring company. As a result, we would allocate the total purchase price to the PCB Subsidiaries’ tangible assets, identifiable intangible assets, liabilities assumed, and noncontrolling interests based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the PCB Combination, and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. The combined company would incur additional amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangible assets acquired in connection with the PCB Combination. In addition, to the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. We incur a variety of costs as a result of being a public company, and those costs may increase as a result of the PCB Combination. As a U.S. public company registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act, we incur significant legal, accounting, and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, frequently require changes in corporate governance policies and practices of companies registered with the SEC under the Exchange Act. These rules and regulations increase legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we incur additional costs associated with our Exchange Act public company reporting requirements. These rules and regulations also may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain and pay for, at commercially reasonable rates, director and officer liability insurance, and the combined company may be required to accept reduced policy limits and reduced scope of coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar levels of coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for the combined company to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on its board of directors or as executive officers. As a result, implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls, and financial reporting systems complying with the requirements of U.S. GAAP and U.S. securities laws and regulations required as a result of our continued status as a reporting company under the Exchange Act following effectiveness of the PCB Combination may be more difficult and costly than anticipated. We expect to incur significant costs as a result of the integration of our operations with the PCB Subsidiaries. There are inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures, and compensation structures between us and the PCB Subsidiaries. The integration of our operations and the operations of the PCB subsidiaries and reconciling the inconsistencies in the standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures, and compensation structures between us and the PCB Subsidiaries may result in additional costs for the combined company. There are no assurances that such inconsistencies can be reconciled seamlessly or at all. The failure to reconcile such inconsistencies may lessen the anticipated benefits of the PCB Combination. Following the effectiveness of the PCB Combination, the current principal owners of Meadville are expected to own a substantial percentage of our common stock. Following the effectiveness of the PCB Combination, approximately 46% of our common stock outstanding after giving effect to the PCB Combination (based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on November 16, 2009, the date we executed and announced the Purchase Agreement) would be owned by Meadville and, following the special dividend of our common stock by Meadville to its shareholders (or sale thereof on behalf of such shareholders electing to sell such TTM shares to which they would otherwise have been entitled), by Meadville’s shareholders or their transferees, and an estimated 33% to 39% of our common stock would be owned by certain of Meadville’s principal shareholders. These principal shareholders of Meadville will be entitled to jointly nominate one individual to our board of directors and a majority of the members of the board of directors of 30 Table of Contents the PCB Subsidiaries, and thus will have influence over our management, operations, and potential significant corporate actions. Current holders of our common stock would suffer substantial dilution if the PCB Combination is effected. The PCB Combination would dilute the ownership position of our current stockholders. If the PCB Combination is effected, we would issue 36.3 million shares of our common stock in connection with the PCB Combination, representing approximately 46% of our outstanding common stock after giving effect to the PCB Combination (based on the number of shares of our common stock outstanding on November 16, 2009, the date we executed and announced the stock purchase agreement). Consequently, following the PCB Combination, our current stockholders, as a general matter, would have less influence over the management and policies of our company than they currently exercise over the management and policies of our company. The PCB Subsidiaries do not currently have a certificate of state-owned land use or certificates of real estate ownership for certain of their properties in the PRC and the properties associated with certain facilities are subject to a general city re-zoning plan which, if implemented in the future, may require the combined company to relocate these facilities. The PCB Subsidiaries do not currently have certificates of real estate ownership for certain buildings used as dormitories and a sewage treatment center for staff dormitories in the PRC. The PCB Subsidiaries also have not obtained the relevant certificate of state-owned land use and certificates of real estate ownership for certain facilities in the PRC. Further, there is a legal defect in the leasing of a parcel of land currently used for dormitories and two buildings used as staff quarters in the PRC. We can provide no assurance that the PCB Subsidiaries will be able to obtain relevant land use certificates in a timely manner or at all, or that the combined company’s results of operations or financial condition would not be adversely affected due to the lack of such certificates. Any requirement to cease using the relevant property and premises could also have a material adverse effect on the combined company’s business. In addition, we understand that all of the properties where certain of the PCB Subsidiaries’ facilities are located are now subject to a general city rezoning plan which has been prepared by the Dongguan municipal government. According to the relevant PRC regulations, the general rezoning plan is made for twenty years. Under the rezoning plan, it is intended that the properties where certain of the PCB Subsidiaries’ facilities are located will be re-designated from industrial to commercial use. If and when implemented in respect of those properties, the rezoning plan may require the combined company to vacate these properties and relocate the facilities. In the event the combined company is required to vacate the above properties, the combined company would implement certain strategies to minimize any loss of production capacity during relocation. There can be no assurance that the combined company’s strategies to deal with the relocation of the facilities can be implemented, or that such strategies can be implemented before the combined company is required to vacate the above properties due to the proposed general city rezoning plan. If the combined company is required to relocate the facilities, the combined company’s results of operation and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. The PCB Subsidiaries have historically operated in Asia, where production costs are lower. We have historically operated primarily in North America. Following the PCB Combination, the average production costs of the combined company may be higher than the historic average production costs of the PCB Subsidiaries due to the integration of the production costs of the PCB Subsidiaries with our production costs. Competitors with lower production costs may gain market share in the combined company’s key market segments, which may have an adverse effect on the pricing of the products of the combined company. Although the PCB Subsidiaries have historically operated in Asia, the PCB Combination and the integration of the PCB Subsidiaries with our company, which has historically operated in North America, may result in the combined company being at a competitive disadvantage with respect to price when compared to manufacturers with other lower-cost facilities in Asia and other locations. We believe price competition from PCB manufacturers in Asia and other locations with lower production costs may play an increasing role in the market. While historically our and the PCB Subsidiaries’ competitors in these locations have produced less technologically advanced PCBs, they continue to expand their capacity and capabilities with advanced equipment to produce higher technology PCBs. In addition, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may benefit these offshore competitors. As a 31 Table of Contents result, these competitors may gain market share, which may force the combined company to lower its prices, which would reduce the combined company’s gross margins. The PCB Subsidiaries’ manufacturing facilities are located in Hong Kong and the PRC. To the extent that other cost-competitive regions begin to enter into PCB production and start to draw foreign investment into their domestic PCB industries or establish domestic markets for such products, the combined company may face greater competition for its products. Correspondingly, if conditions in the PCB products markets in the PRC and Hong Kong deteriorate, particularly for reasons such as increases in labor or other costs, migration of the supply chain outside of the PRC and Hong Kong, or decreases in demand for PCBs in the PRC, then production and consumption of PCBs may shift to these other regions. The inability of the combined company to shift its production and sales to these regions could have a material adverse effect on its results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 