RISK FACTORS In addition to the other information set forth in this document, including the matters contained under the caption “Cautionary Language Concerning Forward-Looking Statements” you should carefully read the matters set forth below. The Company believes that each of these matters could materially affect our business. We recognize that most of these factors are beyond our ability to control and therefore also to predict an outcome. You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report in evaluating us and our business. Reductions in prices for communications services in India and worldwide have had and are expected to continue to have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. On October 1, 2008, the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (“TRAI”) eliminated entirely (following an earlier partial reduction) the access deficit charge (“ADC”)—a charge that had been levied historically to make up for below-cost monthly rentals and local call services provided for fixed telephones. In addition, telecommunications tariffs in India have declined significantly in recent years as a result of increased competition. Peak international call tariffs have declined from Rs. 48 (US$0.94) per minute in 2002 to Rs. 9.10 (US$0.18) per minute in 2009. Market pricing for international wholesale voice telecommunications services continues to see annual declines between 5% and 10%. We expect that the prices for our communications services in India and worldwide will continue to decrease: • as we and our competitors increase transmission capacity on existing and new networks; • as our traffic volumes increase because many of our customer agreements provide for volume-based pricing or contain other provisions for decreases in prices; • as a result of technological advances; and • as a result of synergies realized through strategic acquisitions by us and our competitors. Even though the elimination of the ADC and the decline in tariffs has resulted in a traffic volume growth spurt, they have, and are expected to continue to, materially and adversely affect our revenues. Revenues from our wholesale voice business (which constituted 51.60% and 56.71% of our total revenue in fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively) increased to Rs. 50,207 million (US$987 million) in fiscal 2009 from Rs. 46,687 million in fiscal 2008. 5 Table of Contents Intensifying competition in the Indian telecommunications sector may continue to adversely affect our business. We have faced a number of new competitors to our international long distance (“ILD”) business, particularly since the Government of India (“GoI”) relaxed the licensing conditions and reduced the entry fees for ILD and NLD services in January 2006 (from Rs. 250 million and Rs. 1 billion, respectively, to Rs. 25 million and Rs. 25 million, respectively). For example, Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (“BSNL”) has already begun offering its own ILD services, which has not only resulted in BSNL exchanging traffic with international carriers directly via its own cable infrastructure, but has also resulted in a downward renegotiation of the fees we are entitled to receive from BSNL under our March 2004 infrastructure sharing agreement with BSNL and a decrease in fee-generating traffic under that agreement. Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Limited (“MTNL”) has also announced plans to start offering ILD services shortly. We have had to resort to steep rate cuts to remain competitive with these new market players. There are also an increasing number of players offering various forms of data products, a business in which we have historically been a market leader. Further, on April 1, 2002, the GoI permitted internet service providers (“ISPs”) to offer telephone services through the Internet, and the TRAI has recently recommended further relaxing the restrictions on Internet telephony in India. Because of low ILD rates and the limited penetration of computers in India, competition from this sector has been minimal so far, but could increase in the future. As a result of delays in the implementation of the new Carrier Access Code regime in India, many of our end customers do not have the right to choose to use our services, even if we offer the most competitive rates and best quality; other telecommunications providers, including certain of our direct competitors, must choose to use our services. Currently, access providers (including competitors such as BSNL, MTNL, Bharti, Vodafone and Reliance), which own or control the access telephone networks in India (through which all international calls that we carry that either originate or terminate in India must pass) must choose to use our ILD or NLD services. Until 2002, we had a monopoly on the provision of ILD services, and, until 2004, we were the exclusive provider of ILD services for BSNL and MNTL, but since then we have had to compete for business from the access providers in the open market. The GoI has proposed a Carrier Access Code (“CAC”) regime, which would give the end customer the right to choose its NLD or ILD carrier, based on rates and quality. Long distance operators would also be able to provide a choice of carriers to consumers through calling cards. However, the implementation of the CAC regime has been delayed for technical reasons and the timeframe for implementation remains unpredictable. Even if the CAC is implemented, there can be no assurance that end-users would choose us as their preferred carrier. We need to continue to increase the volume of traffic on our network or we will not generate profits. We must continue to increase the volume of voice, Internet, data, and video transmissions on our network both in India and worldwide in order to realize the anticipated cash flow, operating efficiencies and cost benefits of our network, particularly since certain of our costs (such as repair and maintenance costs) are fixed. Illegal international telephony operators have adversely affected our call volumes. Illegal operators in India offer cheaper services since they do not pay license fees, taxes or the IUC or any other regulatory fees. According to market estimates, these illegal operators have captured approximately 15% of the incoming ILD traffic into India. 6 Table of Contents Telecommunications carriers that we do business with could suffer from decreasing margins and financial distress, which may negatively impact our business. Several telecommunications carriers that we do business with have in the recent past suffered from reduced profit margins and other significant financial pressures. Some of these companies have been acquired and are undergoing restructurings of their businesses. There is no assurance that we will continue to derive business from these carriers. Further, if any of the major carriers that we do business with encounters financial difficulties or files for bankruptcy, we may be unable to recover amounts owed to us. Our mobile global roaming business may be adversely affected by changing technologies. Our wireless mobile global roaming business provides roaming services for GSM, Integrated Dispatch Enhanced Network (“iDEN”), Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (“UMTS”) and Enhanced Specialized Mobile Radio (“ESMR”) networks around the world. However, it may be more difficult for us to provide roaming between other networks, including networks based on third generation (“3G”) standards, because our service may not be able to work with such other networks to identify the locations and profiles of mobile subscribers. As roaming services on these other networks become more prevalent, demand for our services may be reduced. Our international operations and investments expose us to risks that could materially and adversely affect our business. We have operations and investments outside of India and the United States, as well as rights to undersea cable capacity extending to other countries that expose us to risks inherent in international operations. These include: • general economic, social and political conditions; • difficulty in enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through certain foreign legal systems; • tax rates in some foreign countries exceeding those in India and the U.S.; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • withholding requirements or the imposition of tariffs, exchange controls or other restrictions on foreign earnings; • difficulties and costs of compliance with foreign laws and regulations that impose restrictions on our investments and operations, and penalties for noncompliance, including loss of licenses and monetary fines; • difficulties in obtaining licenses or interconnection arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all; and • changes in Indian and U.S. laws and regulations relating to foreign trade and investment. Failure to complete development, testing and introduction of new services, including managed services, could affect our ability to compete in the industry. We continuously develop, test and introduce new communications services so that we can compete for new customers and in new segments of the communications business. Sometimes the introduction of new services requires the successful upgrade or development of new technology, which may be dependent on the conclusion of contract negotiations with vendors and vendors meeting their obligations in a timely manner. In addition, our new service offerings may not be widely accepted by our customers. If we are not able to successfully complete the development and introduction of new services, including new managed services, in a timely manner, our business could be materially and adversely affected. 7 Table of Contents Our technical infrastructure is vulnerable to damage, interruptions or failures which may result in reduced traffic, reduced revenues and harm to our reputation. Our technical infrastructure is vulnerable to damage or interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods, storms, fires, power outages, war, riots, intentional misdeeds and other similar events. In particular, a major part of our international traffic is routed through undersea cable systems as well as through cable systems between different countries. These cables are prone to damage, including cable cuts. Any serious damage to major cables or simultaneous multiple cable failures could seriously disrupt traffic, which might lead to losses in revenue and adversely affect our reputation. In addition, natural information technology system failures (hardware or software), human error or computer viruses may affect the quality of our services and cause temporary service interruptions. Currently, there is an increased risk of failure of our information system because we are installing new applications and software relating to billing and customer relationship management on an accelerated basis. These types of events could result in customer dissatisfaction and reduced traffic and revenues. Our growth may depend upon our successful integration of acquired businesses. We have made significant acquisitions in recent years, including the acquisitions of Tyco Global Network and Teleglobe. The integration of acquired businesses involves a number of risks, including: • demands on management related to the significant increase in size after the acquisition; • the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations to the integration of operations; • higher integration costs than anticipated; • failure to achieve expected synergies and costs savings; • regulatory restrictions imposing a constraint on optimal designs for integration of OSS-BSS systems; • difficulties in the assimilation of different cultures and practices, as well as in the assimilation and retention of broad and geographically dispersed personnel and operations; and • difficulties in the integration of departments, systems (including accounting systems) technologies, books and records and procedures, as well as in maintaining uniform standards, controls (including internal control over financial reporting), procedures and policies. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services. If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services is held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at all or at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. Any use by us of such technology without a license could cause us to become subject to litigation, which could: • be time-consuming and expensive regardless of the merits; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Our profitability may be adversely affected if we become the victim of fraud or theft of services. The industry in which we operate has incurred losses in the last several years due to fraud. Although we have implemented various measures in order to control losses relating to fraudulent practices, we may not succeed in effectively controlling fraud when operating in the international or domestic Indian telecommunications markets. 8 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected if we cannot fulfill our commitments under significant contracts. We have entered into a number of significant contracts with certain of our wholesale voice and enterprise and carrier data customers. Failure to meet our commitments under these contracts could result in financial losses and damage our reputation. Our five largest customers collectively accounted for 14% of our revenues in fiscal 2009 and if, due to any reason, we lose any of our major customers or they terminate the agreement entered into with our Company, it could negatively impact our revenues as well as our profitability and cash generation ability. Our profitability may be adversely affected if certain revenue share disputes are decided against our Company. We are required to pay a certain percentage of our adjusted gross revenue (“AGR”) to the telecom licensor in India under the terms of our license. We are involved with the licensor in a dispute resolution process under Indian telecom regulations about the definition of AGR. If the matters in dispute are decided against us, we will be required to pay a substantially higher amount that we presently do under the license. See “Item 4.” If certain tax claims made by the Indian tax authorities against us are upheld, our financial condition would be adversely impacted. Over past fiscal years, the Company has made certain tax holiday and expense claims based on our understanding of the tax laws as reinforced by legal precedent and legal advice received from external tax counsel. The Indian Tax Authority has not accepted our claims and in few instances has levied penalties against the Company. We have challenged the position taken by the Indian Tax Authority, which are at various stages of adjudication. If all of these disputes are decided against us, we could have an adverse financial implication of Rs. 17,745 million. For significant disputes see “Item 8”. We may not receive additional compensation from the GoI for the early termination of our monopoly on international telephony services. On April 1, 2002, the GoI allowed private operators to start offering ILD services, thereby terminating our monopoly on offering such services two years ahead of schedule. The GoI compensated us with a package of benefits. The GoI had given an assurance prior to the termination of our monopoly that it would consider additional compensation if it found this necessary following a detailed review. However, prior to the termination of our monopoly, the GoI announced that it viewed the package of benefits that it gave to us as the full and final settlement of all claims arising out of the early termination of our ILD monopoly. We have been pursuing the GoI to consider providing us with additional compensation. There can be no assurance that our claim will be successful or that we will receive any additional compensation from the GoI, or if we do receive compensation, as to the amount, nature or timing of such compensation. We are subject to extensive regulation and supervision by the GoI, which could adversely affect the operation of our business and prevent us from entering into transactions that are in the best interests of our shareholders. We must obtain telecommunications licenses from the Department of Telecommunications (“DoT”). The DoT retains the right to modify the terms and conditions of our licenses at any time if in its opinion it is necessary or expedient to do so in the interest of the general public or for the proper operation of the telecommunication sector. A change in certain significant terms of any of the licenses, such as their duration, the range of services permitted or the scope of exclusivity, if any, could have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The DoT is empowered to revoke a license granted by it for any breach of the license conditions. 9 Table of Contents We must also annually obtain various radio spectrum operating licenses from the Wireless Planning and Co-ordination Wing of the Ministry of Communications (“WPC”). The non-renewal or modification of these licenses, or punitive action by the GoI for continuing these services without renewal of the licenses, could adversely affect us. In addition, approval of the TRAI is required for all our new pricing initiatives and product launches. Any disputes between us and the GoI regarding the terms of our telecommunications licenses, as well as any dispute between us and the other service providers in India, is required to be adjudicated by the Telecom Disputes Settlement Appellate Tribunal (“TDSAT”). Failure to follow TDSAT orders may lead to the imposition of fines and other punitive actions. Regulatory decisions and changes in the regulatory environment in the jurisdictions in which we do business could adversely affect us. We have interests in a large number of geographic areas throughout the world and must comply with an extensive range of requirements that are meant to regulate and supervise the licensing, construction and operation of telecommunications networks and services. These requirements are likely to increase with our overseas expansion. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws that apply to the telecommunications industry. We cannot provide any assurances that governments in the countries in which we intend to operate will issue or renew licenses we need on acceptable terms or at all. Furthermore, some of the jurisdictions where we provide services have little, if any, written regulations governing our operations. The written regulations and guidelines that do exist in a jurisdiction may not specifically address our operations. It is possible that one or more governmental agencies will disagree with our interpretation of existing laws or regulations and assert that our operations are not in compliance with those laws or regulations. In that event, it is possible that the governmental agency might initiate an enforcement action or impose restrictions on our operations which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We have incurred substantial debt which could adversely affect us. We incurred additional debt in fiscal 2009 primarily to finance our capital expenditures. As of March 31, 2009, the outstanding principal amount of our indebtedness was Rs. 60,229 million (US$ 1,184 million) as opposed to Rs. 30,420 million as on March 31, 2008. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and working capital lines of credit to meet future financing needs, subject to certain restrictions under our existing indebtedness, which would increase our total debt. The significant negative consequences on our financial condition and results of operations that could result from our substantial debt include: • limitations on our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing; • accelerated maturity of some or all of our outstanding indebtedness in the event we are unable to meet the financial covenants contained in our debt agreements; • the allocation of a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to service our debt, thus reducing the amount of our cash flow available for other purposes, such as operating costs, capital expenditures, or dividends; • sales of our debt or equity securities or core assets, possibly on unfavorable terms, to meet payment obligations; • less flexibility to plan for, or react to, competitive challenges in our business and the communications industry; and • competitive disadvantage if our competitors do not have as much debt as us. 10 Table of Contents Termination of relationships with key suppliers could cause delays and costs. We are dependent on key third-party suppliers for fiber, computers, software, optronics, transmission electronics and related components of our network. We are also dependent on key suppliers to repair and maintain our extensive undersea and other cable assets. If any of these relationships is terminated or a key supplier fails to provide reliable services or equipment, we might be unable to obtain suitable alternative arrangements quickly and consequently could experience significant delays and additional costs. We have made, and in the future might make, substantial capital investments in new telecommunications projects which may expose us to liquidity and execution risks. We have made substantial additional investments in new telecommunications projects, including in connection with technology upgrades and geographic expansion. We spent approximately Rs. 31,336 million (US$616 million) on capital expenditures in fiscal 2009 and we expect our capital expenditures in fiscal 2010 to be approximately Rs. 39,272 million. Our capital expenditures may increase in the future because of cost overruns or delays in our projects or as we strive to offer new services, improve our capabilities, and remain competitive. Recent uncertainty in the international credit markets, including the downturn in the United States sub-prime mortgage market, may adversely affect our ability to obtain this capital when needed or on terms that are attractive. Even if we are able to make all of our planned capital expenditures, telecommunications technology evolves rapidly so there can be no assurance that any of our investments in new technology will have a positive impact on our financial results. The absence of a robust business continuity plan could affect our business adversely. Our operations are dependent on various information technology systems and applications which may not be adequately supported by a robust business continuity plan, which could seriously impact our business in the event of a disaster of any nature. It is increasingly costly for us to comply with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India (“SEBI”) rules and regulations, and Indian stock exchange listing regulations are creating uncertainty for companies like ours because they sometimes lack specificity and may be subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. Additionally, because of significant acquisitions and changes in our services and business, we may face difficulties and increased costs in sustaining such compliance. Our efforts to comply with evolving corporate governance and public disclosure laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers. 11 Table of Contents Our business may be adversely affected by any slowdown in economic growth in India, the United States or other countries where we conduct business or by a slowdown in the growth of the IT sector. The growth of telecommunications traffic is related to general economic growth and slowdowns in the economy could result in slower growth rates in telecommunications traffic. Economic slowdowns in India and the U.S. pose the greatest risk for us because approximately 32.87% and 17.15% of our operating revenues were from India and the United States, respectively, during fiscal 2009. Commencing in 2007 and continuing into 2009, the U.S. securities markets have experienced significant deterioration and volatility and the liquidity of U.S. credit markets have substantially tightened, which has had negative repercussions on the global economy. These developments could continue to present risks for an extended period of time for us, including a potential slowdown in our sales to customers in the financial sector. Slowdowns in the IT sector might adversely affect our revenues as well, because the IT sector is a major contributor to our telephony and leased channel revenues. A substantial portion of our assets are located in India and our equity is listed on the Indian stock exchanges. Accordingly, our performance and the market price and liquidity of our equity may be affected by changes in exchange rates and controls, interest rates, government policy, taxation and other political, economic or social developments in or affecting India. Since 1991, successive governments in India have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the GoI and state governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators remains significant in ways that affect all Indian companies, including us. India has had frequent changes in government since 1996. Political instability could result in changes in policy, delay reforms of the Indian economy and could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including the Shares, and consequently the ADSs. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war involving India, the United States and other countries could adversely affect the financial markets and our business. Terrorist attacks and other acts of violence or war may negatively affect the Indian markets where the Shares trade and adversely affect the worldwide financial markets. These acts may also result in a loss of business confidence and make travel more difficult. Also, as a result of such events, India, the United States or certain other countries where our Company has or may have major business interests may enter into armed conflict with other countries. The consequences of any potential armed conflicts are unpredictable. In addition, India has from time to time experienced unrest relating to religious and political differences within India’s population, as well as with its neighboring country Pakistan. Any increase in regional or international hostilities, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence or war could have a significant adverse impact on international and Indian financial markets or economic conditions or on the GoI’s policy, thereby disrupting communications. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investment in Indian companies involves a higher degree of risk and could have an adverse impact on our business, or the market price of the Shares and ADSs. Conditions in the Indian securities markets may affect the price or liquidity of the Shares and ADSs. The Indian securities markets are smaller in terms of trading volume and more volatile than the securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. The Indian stock exchanges have in the past experienced substantial fluctuations in the prices of listed securities. It is generally perceived that there is a lower level of regulation and monitoring of the Indian securities markets and the activities of investors, brokers and other market participants than in securities markets in the United States and certain European and other countries. 12 Table of Contents The Indian stock exchanges have experienced trading interruptions in the past because of regulatory interventions and operational issues. If these interruptions were to recur, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the securities of Indian companies, including the Shares and ADSs. In addition, the governing bodies of the Indian stock exchanges have from time to time imposed restrictions on trading in certain securities, limitations on price movements and margin requirements. Similar problems could occur in the future and, if they do, it could affect the market price and liquidity of the Shares and ADSs. We and you may be subject to potential losses arising out of risks associated with the conversion rates between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee and the Dollar will affect, among other things, the Dollar equivalents of the price of our Shares in Rupees as quoted on the Indian stock exchanges and, as a result, may affect the market price of the ADSs. Such fluctuations will also affect the Dollar equivalent of any cash dividends in Rupees received on the Shares represented by the ADSs and the Dollar equivalent of the proceeds in Rupees of a sale of the Shares in India. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Rupee, the SDR (or “Special Drawing Rights”, which are based on a basket of key international currencies and are frequently used in foreign currency payment settlements) and other currencies also affect the Rupee amount of foreign currency settlement payments received by us from, and paid by us to, foreign telecommunications administrations and for imported equipment and technology. You may not be able to enforce a judgment of a foreign court against us. We are organized under the laws of India. All of our directors and officers are India nationals and all or a significant portion of the assets of all of the directors and officers and a substantial portion of our assets are located in India. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process on us or such directors or officers outside India or to enforce judgments against them obtained from courts outside India, including judgments predicated on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws. Dealings with telecommunication service providers in countries designated by the U.S. Department of State as state sponsors of terrorism may lead some potential customers and investors in the U.S. and other countries to avoid doing business with us. The United States, and from time to time other countries, have laws that may prohibit or restrict their citizens from engaging in business in certain countries, or that otherwise impose economic sanctions on such countries. International bodies such as the United Nations may also impose sanctions on certain countries from time to time. The United States currently has laws that prohibit or restrict its citizens from doing business in Cuba, Iran, the Sudan and Syria. As a major provider of international telecommunications services to customers in India, we enter into interconnection agreements with communications providers around the world. We have entered into agreements with providers located in certain of such countries, and entered into arrangements to facilitate the carrying of telecommunications traffic to and from such countries, and we may do so in the future. We are substantially owned by some of the Tata Group companies and the GoI who have significant rights in relation to the election of our board of directors and may have interests which conflict with those of our other shareholders, including holders of the ADSs. As of March 31, 2009, 50.09% of our outstanding equity was held by Panatone Finvest Limited and other Tata group companies, and 26.12% was held by the GoI. Panatone Finvest Limited, certain other Tata group companies and the GoI are parties to a Shareholders’ Agreement (the “SHA”) pursuant to which they have agreed on certain matters with respect to our governance and operation, including the composition and election of our board of directors. As a result of their equity holdings and the SHA, Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI together control all matters submitted to shareholders, including the election of directors. They also have significant control over the matters that come up for consideration at the meetings of our board of directors. There can be no assurance that the interests of Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI will not differ from the interests of our other shareholders, including the holders of ADSs. 13 Table of Contents Future sales by the GoI of our shares may adversely affect our share price. As of September 30, 2009, the GoI’s stake in our Company was 26.12%. If or when the GoI decides to reduce its stake in our Company, the manner in which the GoI decides to reduce its stake and the selection of the buyer of such stake, may have an adverse impact on the price of the Shares. We may face potential conflicts of interest relating to our principal shareholder. Our principal shareholder is part of the Tata group of companies which have diverse business activities and interests. The Tata group or their affiliates could engage in activities, or seek opportunities, that are or could be in competition with our activities or interests. In particular, the Tata group has interests in other companies in the telecommunications sector, such as Tata Teleservices Limited. Disagreements between the Tata group of companies and the GoI concerning our activities could result in a deadlock, which could adversely affect our business. Panatone Finvest Limited, certain other Tata group companies and the GoI have agreed in the SHA that we shall not undertake certain corporate actions unless at least one director nominated by each of them (in the case of a board meeting) or at least one authorized representative nominated by each of them (in the case of a shareholder meeting) consents to such action. Panatone Finvest Limited, the other Tata group companies and the GoI have also agreed not to transfer their shares in our Company without giving the other certain rights of first refusal and tag-along rights. In the event that Panatone Finvest Limited, the other Tata group companies and the GoI fail to agree on any such matter, their disagreement could result in us not taking advantage of a potential opportunity. Further, any disagreement in relation to raising funds through non-debt sources could result in an inability to implement our capital expenditure plans efficiently. The demerger of surplus land held by us may not be completed on satisfactory terms. Under the terms of the SHA, Panatone Finvest Limited agreed to cause us to demerge certain land that we own but were not actively using into a separate company. No time period was specified in the agreement for such demerger. We, Panatone Finvest Limited and the GoI are currently discussing various options in connection with the demerger. Until such time as the demerger takes place, the lands are under our possession and upkeep. We cannot predict if the demerger will take place or the expenditure that we might have to incur for the security, upkeep and maintenance of the surplus land. Further, we may have to bear significant costs, including taxes and duties, relating to the demerger, and we cannot predict what effect, if any, the demerger and the legal and valuation process relating to the demerger will have on our financial condition. Holders of ADSs have no voting rights. Investors in ADSs have no voting rights, unlike holders of Shares. It is contemplated that the Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary for the ADSs (the “Depositary”) will exercise its right to vote the Shares represented by ADSs as directed by our board of directors. Investors may withdraw the Shares underlying the ADSs and seek to vote the Shares obtained from the withdrawal. However, for foreign investors, this withdrawal process may be subject to delays. There is a limited market for the ADSs. Even though the ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange, there is no assurance that any trading market for the ADSs will be sustained. Subsequent to the open/tender offer by Panatone Finvest Limited, the number of shares represented by ADSs declined from approximately 60 million (representing 21% of the issued and outstanding Shares) as of March 31, 2002 to approximately 24 million (representing 8.70% of the issued and outstanding Shares) as of March 31, 2009. This may affect the liquidity of the market for the ADSs and the price at which they trade. 14 Table of Contents Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause the Shares to trade at a discount or premium relative to the market price of the ADSs. Until recently, under Indian law it was not permitted for a depositary to accept deposits of outstanding equity shares and issue ADSs evidencing such shares. Thus, an investor in ADSs who surrendered an ADS and withdrew equity shares would not be permitted to redeposit those equity shares to obtain ADSs, nor would an investor who purchased equity shares on the Indian market be permitted to deposit them in the ADS program. The GoI has recently permitted two-way fungibility of ADSs. However, this is still subject to sectoral caps under regulations governing foreign direct investment (“FDI”) in India, compliance with the provisions of the Issue of Foreign Currency Convertible Bonds and Ordinary Shares (Through Depositary Receipt Mechanism) Scheme 1993, periodic guidelines issued by the GoI and registration requirements in the United States. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause the Shares to trade at a discount or premium to the ADSs. An investor in the ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional Shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. A company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentage prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obliged to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision on whether to do so will depend on the costs and potential benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, that the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. Intellectual property and proprietary rights of others could prevent us from using necessary technology to provide our services. If technology that is necessary for us to provide our services is held under patent by another person, we would have to negotiate a license for the use of that technology. We may not be able to negotiate such a license at a price that is acceptable. The existence of such patents, or our inability to negotiate a license for any such technology on acceptable terms, could force us to cease using the technology and offering products and services incorporating the technology. To the extent that we are subject to litigation regarding the ownership of our intellectual property, this litigation could: • be time-consuming and expensive; • divert attention and resources away from our daily business; • impede or prevent delivery of our products and services; and • require us to pay significant royalties, licensing fees and damages. Parties making claims of infringement may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide our services and could cause us to pay substantial damages. In the event of a successful claim of infringement, we may need to obtain one or more licenses from third parties, which may not be available at a reasonable cost, if at all. The defense of any lawsuit could result in time-consuming and expensive litigation, regardless of the merits of such claims, and could also result in damages, license fees, royalty payments and restrictions on our ability to provide our services, any of which could harm our business. 15 Table of Contents Impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business Our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights through patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws in various jurisdictions worldwide may not prevent misappropriation, and our failure to protect our proprietary rights could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. A third party could, without authorization, copy or otherwise appropriate our proprietary network information. Our agreements with employees and others who participate in development activities could be breached, we may not have adequate remedies for any breach, and our trade secrets may otherwise become known or independently developed by competitors. We may be unable to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel; the loss of any of our key executive officers could adversely affect our business We believe that our success in the future will depend to a large extent on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled, knowledgeable, sophisticated and qualified managerial, professional and technical personnel. We expect to experience significant competition in attracting and retaining personnel who possess the skills that we are seeking. Our business is managed by a team of key executive officers and their immediate teams. Loss of any of these key executives could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations and profitability may be adversely affected if the funding required for the plans is delayed The Company is dependent on its promoter shareholders i.e. the Strategic Partner and the Government of India, agreeing to the proposals for raising non-debt funds such as subscription to the new shares or monetization of certain assets. This dependency arises in view of the provisions of the Share Purchase Agreement (“SPA”) among the Strategic Partner, the Government of India and the Company and the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company. If the promoter shareholders do not agree to such proposals for any reason, the Company may not be able to implement its capital expenditure plans efficiently and, as a result, its operations and profitability may be adversely affected. Currency and exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our results of operations. We incur network and other expenses and sell our products in various countries outside India. These transactions are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar and Euro. Moreover, we have outstanding foreign currency denominated debt and hence we are sensitive to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We have experienced and expect to continue to experience foreign exchange losses and gains on obligations denominated in foreign currencies in respect of our borrowings and foreign currency assets and liabilities due to currency fluctuations. Weakening of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may have an adverse effect on our cost of borrowing and consequently may increase our financing costs, which could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. Any depreciation in the value of the rupee against the dollar or other major foreign currencies may lead to adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations during the current fiscal year and in the future periods, partly due to an increase in our non-rupee denominated debt. The U.S. financial markets have experienced significant deterioration and volatility recently, which has had negative repercussions on the global economy and, as a result, could present new challenges for our business. Commencing in 2007 and continuing into 2009, certain adverse financial developments have impacted the U.S. and global financial markets. These developments include a general slowing of economic growth both in the U.S. and globally, substantial volatility in equity securities markets, and volatility and tightening of liquidity in credit markets. While it is difficult to predict how long these conditions will exist and which markets and businesses of our company may be affected, these developments could continue to present risks for an extended period of time for our company, including a potential slowdown in our sales to customers in the financial sector. 16 Table of Contents 