Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following risk factors as well as the other information contained in this report, including but not limited to, the discussion under Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Cautionary Note Regarding Forward Looking Statements.” The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Associated with Our Company Our solutions may fail to keep pace with rapidly changing technology and evolving industry standards. The market in which we operate is characterized by rapid, and sometimes disruptive, technological developments, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and enhancements and changes in customer requirements. In addition, both traditional and new competitors are investing heavily in this market and competing for customers. As next-generation business collaboration technology continues to evolve, we must keep pace in order to maintain or expand our market leading position. We recently introduced a significant number of new product offerings and are increasingly focused on new high, value software solutions, as a revenue driver. If we are not able to successfully develop and bring these new solutions to market in a timely manner, achieve market acceptance of our solutions or identify new market opportunities for our solutions, our business and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. The market opportunity for business collaboration, unified communications solutions and other products and services may not develop in the ways that we anticipate. The demand for our offerings can change quickly and in ways that we may not anticipate because the market in which we operate is characterized by rapid, and sometimes disruptive, technological developments, evolving industry standards, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, changes in customer requirements and a limited ability to accurately forecast future customer orders. Our operating results may be adversely affected if the market opportunity for our products and services does not develop in the ways that we anticipate. We cannot predict whether: • our solutions will attract and retain customers and channel partners or that we can execute our sales strategy successfully; • the demand for our products and services, including Avaya Aura and the Avaya Flare Experience, will grow as quickly as we anticipate or current or future competitors or new technologies will cause the market to evolve in a manner different than we expect; • other technologies will become more accepted or standard in our industry or will disrupt our SIP-based technology platform; or • we will be able to maintain a leadership or profitable position as this opportunity develops. We face formidable competition from numerous established firms that provide both traditional enterprise voice communications solutions as well as providers of technology related to business collaboration and contact center solutions; as these markets evolve, we expect competition to intensify and expand to include companies that do not currently compete directly against us. We compete against providers of both traditional enterprise voice communications solutions as well as providers of technology related to business collaboration and contact center solutions. For example, we compete with Alcatel-Lucent, Genesys, Aspect, Brocade, Cisco, Juniper, Microsoft, NEC and SEN. Our video conferencing solutions both partner and compete with solutions offered by Polycom, TANDBERG (now Cisco) and LifeSize 22 Table of Contents (now a division of Logitech International S.A.). We also face competition in the small and medium enterprise market from many competitors, including Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, NEC, Panasonic and Mitel, although the market for these products is more fragmented. We face competition in certain geographies with companies that have a particular strength and focus in particular countries or regions, such as Huawei in China and Intelbras in Latin America. Our services business competes with companies like those above in offering services, either directly or indirectly through their channel partners, with respect to their own product offerings, as well as with many value-added resellers, consulting and systems integration firms and network service providers. In addition, because the business collaboration market continues to evolve and technology continues to develop rapidly, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently compete against us, but whose current business activities may bring them into competition with us in the future. In particular, this may be the case as business, information technology and communications applications deployed on converged networks become more integrated to support business collaboration. We may face increased competition from current leaders in information technology infrastructure, information technology, consumer products companies, personal and business applications and the software that connects the network infrastructure to those applications. With respect to services, we may also face competition from companies that seek to sell remotely hosted services or software as a service directly to the end customer. Competition from these potential market entrants may take many forms, including offering products and applications similar to those we offer as part of another offering. In addition, these technologies continue to move from a proprietary environment to an open standards-based environment. Several of our existing competitors have, and many of our future competitors may have, greater financial, personnel, technical, research and development and other resources, more well-established brands or reputations and broader customer bases than we do and, as a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to potential acquisitions and other market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of these competitors may have customer bases that are more geographically balanced than ours and, therefore, may be less affected by an economic downturn in a particular region. Other competitors may have deeper expertise in a particular stand-alone technology that develops more quickly than we anticipate. Competitors with greater resources also may be able to offer lower prices, additional products or services or other incentives that we cannot match or do not offer. Industry consolidations may also create competitors with broader and more geographic coverage and the ability to reach enterprises through communications service providers. Existing customers of data networking companies that compete against us may be inclined to purchase enterprise communications solutions from their current data networking or software vendors rather than from us. Also, as communications and data networks converge, we may face competition from systems integrators that traditionally have been focused on data network integration. We cannot predict which competitors may enter our markets in the future, what form such competition may take or whether we will be able to respond effectively to the entry of new competitors into competition with us or the rapid evolution in technology and product development that has characterized our businesses. In addition, in order to effectively compete with any new market entrant, we may need to make additional investments in our business, use more capital resources than our business currently requires or reduce prices, any of which may materially and adversely affect our profitability. Our revenues are dependent on general economic conditions and the willingness of enterprises to make capital investments. One factor that significantly affects our operating results is the impact of economic conditions on the willingness of enterprises to make capital investments, particularly in business collaboration technology and related services. Given the current state of the economy, we believe that enterprises continue to be cautious about sustained economic growth and have tried to maintain or improve profitability through cost control and constrained capital spending, which places additional pressure on IT departments to demonstrate acceptable return on investment and may cause them to delay or reject capital projects, including implementing our solutions. Because it is not 23 Table of Contents certain whether enterprises will increase spending on business collaboration technology significantly in the near term, we could experience continued pressure on our ability to increase our revenue. Our ability to grow revenue also may be affected by other factors, such as competitive pricing pressures, price erosion and our ability to effectively and consistently price new and existing offers in the marketplace. If these or other conditions limit our ability to grow revenue or cause our revenue to decline and we cannot reduce costs on a timely basis or at all, our operating results may be materially and adversely affected. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to rely on our indirect sales channel. We continue to take steps to sell our products and services into new and expanded geographic markets and to a broader customer base. An important element of our go-to-market strategy, therefore, involves our indirect sales channel, which includes our global network of alliance partners, distributors, dealers, value-added resellers, telecommunications service providers and system integrators. For example, although we expanded our indirect channel network and gained relationships with new channel partners through our acquisition of NES, in order to be successful we must further monetize the NES installed base by increasing the services attach rate for the Nortel customers we acquired. Our relationships with channel partners are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts and certain of our contractual agreements with our largest distributors and channel partners generally permit termination of the relationship by either party for convenience upon prior notice of 30 to 180 days. Our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel partners were terminated, if our relationships with channel partners were to deteriorate, if our maintenance pricing or other services strategies conflict with those of our channel partners, if any of our competitors were to enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel partner or if the financial condition of our channel partners were to weaken. In addition, we may expend time, money and other resources on developing and maintaining channel relationships that are ultimately unsuccessful. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing relationships with channel partners, including those obtained as a result of the acquisition of NES. If we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers or market share. We are dependent on our intellectual property. If we are not able to protect our proprietary rights or if those rights are invalidated or circumvented, our business may be adversely affected. We believe that developing new products and technology is critical to our success. As a leader in technology and innovation in business collaboration, we are dependent on the maintenance of our current intellectual property rights and the establishment of new intellectual property rights. We generally protect our intellectual property through patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality and nondisclosure agreements and other measures. There can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending applications that we have filed or that our patents will be sufficient to protect our key technology. Although we have been granted and have acquired many patents, have obtained other intellectual property rights and continue to file new patent applications and seek additional proprietary rights, there can be no assurances made that any of our patents, patent applications or our other intellectual property or proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. In addition, our business is global and the level of protection of our proprietary technology will vary by country, particularly in countries that do not have well developed judicial systems or laws that adequately protect intellectual property rights. Any actions taken in these countries may have results that are different than if such actions were taken under the laws of the U.S. Patent litigation and other challenges to our patents and other proprietary rights are costly and unpredictable and may prevent us from marketing and selling a product in a particular geographic area. Patent filings by third parties, whether made before or after the date of our filings, could render our intellectual property less valuable. Competitors and others may also misappropriate our intellectual property, disputes as to ownership of intellectual property may arise and our intellectual property may otherwise fall into the public domain. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may be at a disadvantage to others who did not incur the substantial time and expense we incurred to create our products. In addition, our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective, could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm operating results. 24 Table of Contents If we fail to retain or attract key employees, our business may be harmed. The success of our business depends on the skill, experience and dedication of our employee base. If we are unable to retain and recruit sufficiently experienced and capable personnel, especially in the key areas of product development, sales, services and management, our business and financial results may suffer. Experienced and capable personnel in the technology industry remain in high demand, and there is continual competition for their talents among our competitors. When talented employees leave, we may have difficulty replacing them and our business may suffer. While we strive to maintain our competitiveness in the marketplace, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully retain and attract the personnel that we need to achieve our business objectives. We rely on third-party providers for the manufacture, warehousing and distribution logistics associated with our products. We have outsourced substantially all of our manufacturing operations to several electronic manufacturing services, or EMS, providers. Our EMS providers produce the vast majority of products in facilities located in China, with other products produced in facilities located in Israel, Mexico, Malaysia, Taiwan, Germany, Indonesia, the United Kingdom and the U.S. All manufacturing of our products is performed in accordance with detailed specifications and product designs furnished or approved by us and is subject to rigorous quality control standards. We periodically review our product manufacturing operations and consider changes we believe may be necessary or appropriate. Although we closely manage the transition process when manufacturing changes are required, we could experience disruption to our operations during any such transition. Any such disruption could negatively affect our reputation and our results of operations. We also purchase certain hardware components and license certain software components and resell them under the Avaya brand. In some cases, certain components are available only from a single source or from a limited source of suppliers. Delays or shortages associated with these components could cause significant disruption to our operations. As our business and operations related relationships have expanded globally in the last few years, changes in economic or political conditions, as well as natural disasters, in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition or those of our channel partners and distributors. We conduct significant sales and customer support operations and increasing amounts of our research and development activities in countries outside of the U.S. and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. For the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011 we derived 46% of our revenue from sales outside the U.S. The vast majority of our contract manufacturing also takes place outside the U.S., primarily in China. Our future operating results, including our ability to import our products from, export our products to, or sell our products in, various countries, could be adversely affected by a variety of uncontrollable and changing factors. These factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, protectionist legislation, relationships with employees and works councils, currency regulations, health or similar issues, natural disasters and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we and our contract manufacturers and business partners currently operate or intend to operate in the future. Additional risks inherent in our global operations generally include, among other things, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences, including imposition of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries, and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights (including the increased risk of counterfeiting of our products). Our prospective effective tax rate could be adversely affected by, among others, an unfavorable geographical distribution of our earnings and losses, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities or by changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles, or interpretations thereof. The various risks inherent in doing business in the U.S. generally also exist when doing business outside of the U.S., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. 25 Table of Contents If we perform more of our operations outside the U.S., we may be exposed to increased operational and logistical risks associated with foreign operations, many of which are beyond our control and could affect our ability to operate successfully. In order to enhance the cost-effectiveness of our operations, increasingly we have been shifting portions of certain of our operations to jurisdictions with lower cost structures than those available in certain of the countries in which we traditionally operate. This includes certain research and development, customer support and corporate infrastructure activities. We may encounter complications associated with the set-up, migration and operation of business systems and equipment in expanded or new facilities. The transition of even a portion of our research and development or customer support operations to a foreign country involves a number of logistical and technical challenges that could result in delays and other disruptions to our operations. If such delays or disruptions occur, they could damage our reputation and otherwise adversely affect our business and results of operations. To the extent that we shift any operations or functions outside of the U.S. to jurisdictions with lower cost structures, we may experience challenges in effectively managing those operations as a result of several factors, including time zone differences and regulatory, legal, employment, cultural and logistical issues. Additionally, the relocation of workforce resources may have a negative impact on our existing employees, which could negatively impact our operations. If we are unable to effectively manage our offshore operations, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that any shifts in our operations to offshore jurisdictions will ultimately produce the expected cost savings. We cannot predict the extent of government support, availability of qualified workers, future labor rates or monetary and economic conditions in any offshore locations where we may operate. Although some of these factors may influence our decision to establish or increase our offshore operations, there are other inherent risks beyond our control, including issues such as political uncertainties and currency regulations as discussed above under “—As our business and operations related relationships have expanded globally in the last few years, changes in economic or political conditions, as well as natural disasters, in a specific country or region could negatively affect our revenue, costs, expenses and financial condition or those of our channel partners and distributors.” We are faced with competition in these offshore markets for qualified personnel, including skilled design and technical personnel, and we expect this competition to increase as companies expand their operations offshore, which could increase our costs and employee turnover rates. One or more of these factors or other factors relating to foreign operations could result in increased operating expenses and make it more difficult for us to manage our costs and operations, which could cause our operating results to decline and result in reduced revenues. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could negatively impact our operating results. Foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our revenue, costs or cash flows from our international operations, which could adversely affect our financial performance. Our primary currency exposures are to the euro, British pound, Indian rupee and Canadian dollar. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and as the geographic mix of our business changes. From time to time we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to reduce the short-term impact of foreign currency fluctuations. However, any attempts to hedge against foreign currency fluctuation risks may be unsuccessful and result in an adverse impact to our operating results. If we are unable to integrate acquired businesses into ours effectively, our operating results may be adversely affected. From time to time, we seek to expand our business through acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses into ours, and therefore we may not be able to realize the intended benefits from an acquisition. If we fail to successfully integrate acquisitions or if they fail to perform as we anticipate, our existing businesses and our revenue and operating results could be adversely affected. If the due diligence of the operations of these acquired businesses performed by us and by third parties on our behalf is inadequate or flawed, or if we later discover unforeseen financial or business liabilities, acquired businesses may not perform as expected. Additionally, acquisitions could result in difficulties assimilating acquired operations and products 26 Table of Contents and the diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. We may fail to retain employees acquired through acquisitions, which may negatively impact the integration efforts. For all the reasons set forth above, the failure to integrate acquired businesses effectively may adversely impact Avaya’s business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be subject to litigation and infringement claims, which could cause us to incur significant expenses or prevent us from selling our products or services. From time to time, we receive notices and claims from third parties asserting that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software infringe their intellectual property rights. The number of such claims has increased recently and there can be no assurance that the number of these notices and claims will not increase in the future and that others will not claim that our proprietary or licensed products, systems and software are infringing their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe those intellectual property rights. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology. Irrespective of the merits of these claims, if a third party claimed that our proprietary or licensed systems and software infringed their intellectual property rights, any resulting litigation could be costly and time consuming and could divert the attention of management and key personnel from other business issues. The complexity of the technology involved and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation increase these risks. These matters may result in any number of outcomes for us, including entering into licensing agreements, redesigning our products to avoid infringement, being enjoined from selling products that are found to infringe, paying damages if products are found to infringe and indemnifying customers from infringement claims as part of our contractual obligations. Royalty or license agreements may be very costly and we may be unable to obtain royalty or license agreements on terms acceptable to us or at all. Such agreements may cause operating margins to decline. We also may be subject to significant damages or an injunction against us or our use of our proprietary or licensed systems or products. In addition, some of our employees previously have been employed at other companies that provide integrated communications solutions. We may be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers. These claims and other successful claims of patent or other intellectual property infringement against us could materially adversely affect our operating results. We have made and will likely continue to make investments to license and/or acquire the use of third-party intellectual property rights and technology as part of our strategy to manage this risk, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful or that any costs relating to such activity will not be material. We may also be subject to additional notice, attribution and other compliance requirements to the extent we incorporate open source software into our applications. In addition, third parties have claimed, and may in the future claim, that a customer’s use of our products, systems or software infringes the third party’s intellectual property rights. Under certain circumstances, we may be required to indemnify our customers for some of the costs and damages related to such an infringement claim. Any indemnification requirement could have a material adverse effect on our business and our operating results. For a description of certain legal proceedings regarding intellectual property, please see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. A breach of the security of our information systems or those of our third party providers could adversely affect our operating results. We rely on the security of our information systems and, in certain circumstances, those of our third party providers, such as vendors, consultants and contract manufacturers, to protect our proprietary information and information of our customers. Information technology system failures, including a breach of our or our third party providers’ data security, could disrupt our ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing, among other things, delays in the fulfillment or cancellation of customer orders, disruptions in the manufacture or shipment of products or, delivery of services or an unintentional disclosure of customer, employee or our information. Additionally, despite our security procedures or those of our third party providers, information systems may be vulnerable to threats such as computer hacking, cyber-terrorism or other 27 Table of Contents unauthorized attempts by third parties to access, modify or delete our or our customers’ proprietary information. Any such breach could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and our reputation as a provider of mission critical business collaboration and communications solutions. Such consequences could be exacerbated if we or our third party providers are unable to adequately recover critical systems following a systems failure. We may be adversely affected by environmental, health and safety, laws, regulations, costs and other liabilities. We are subject to a wide range of governmental requirements relating to employee safety and health and to environmental protection. If we violate or fail to comply with these requirements, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators. We are subject to certain provisions of environmental laws governing the cleanup of soil and groundwater contamination that may impose joint and several liability for the costs of investigating and remediating releases of regulated materials at currently or formerly owned or operated sites and at third-party waste disposal sites. In certain circumstances, this liability may also include the cost of cleaning up historical contamination, whether or not caused by us. We are also subject to various state, federal and international laws and regulations relating to the presence of certain substances in our products and making producers of certain electrical products financially responsible for the collection, treatment, recycling and disposal of those products. For example, the European Union, or the EU, has adopted the Restriction on Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, and Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment, or WEEE, directives. Similar laws and regulations have been or may be enacted in other regions. Additionally, new requirements addressing the operating characteristics of our products are emerging, such as the EU Energy Using Product, or EuP, directive, which may necessitate reengineering of some products. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. It is often difficult to estimate the future impact of environmental matters, including potential liabilities. There can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, including existing, pending and future environmental laws addressing climate change, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, regulated materials will not exceed any amounts reflected in our reserves or adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. Business collaboration solutions are complex, and design defects, errors, failures or “bugs” may be difficult to detect and correct. Business collaboration solutions are complex, integrating hardware, software and many elements of a customers’ existing network and communications infrastructure. Despite testing conducted prior to the release of products to the market and quality assurance programs, hardware may malfunction and software may contain “bugs” that are difficult to detect and fix. Any such issues could interfere with the expected operation of a solution, which might negatively impact customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities or affect gross margins. Depending upon the size and scope of any such issue, remediation may have a material impact on our business. Our inability to cure an application or product defect, should one occur, could result in the failure of an application or product line, the temporary or permanent withdrawal from an application, product or market, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, an increase in warranty claims, lawsuits by customers or customers’ or channel partners’ end users, or application or product reengineering expenses. Our insurance may not cover or may be insufficient to cover claims that are successfully asserted against us. Integral aspects of our operations may be subject to climate change risks. We recognize that climate change is an issue of global concern. In addition, a number of climate change regulations and initiatives are either in force or pending at the state, regional, Federal and international levels that focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Integral aspects of our operations that may be subject to climate change risks include, but are not limited to, the following: increased regulations that have either been promulgated or may be promulgated in the future in jurisdictions in which we operate; the procurement and transport of raw materials and components used by our outsourced manufacturers and the use of those raw 28 Table of Contents materials and components in the manufacturing process; emissions by our outsourced manufacturers; packaging and transport of finished goods; emissions and waste generated by our business operations; emissions associated with business travel (air, vehicular, fleet services); and emissions generated by our products. We continue to monitor those risks and will develop policies and processes designed to mitigate those risks where possible. We cannot assure you that our efforts to mitigate climate change risks will be successful or that risks associated with climate change will not have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Pension and postretirement healthcare and life insurance liabilities could impair our liquidity or financial condition. We sponsor non-contributory defined benefit pension plans covering a portion of our U.S. employees and retirees, and postretirement benefit plans for U.S. retirees that include healthcare benefits and life insurance coverage. We froze benefit accruals and additional participation in our plans for our U.S. management employees effective December 31, 2003. Certain of our non-U.S. operations also have various retirement benefit programs covering substantially all of their employees. Some of these programs are considered to be defined benefit pension plans for accounting purposes. If one or more of our U.S. pension plans were to be terminated without being fully funded on a termination basis, the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or PBGC, could obtain a lien on our assets for the amount of our liability, which would result in an event of default under each of our credit facilities. As a result, any such liens would have a material adverse effect on the Company, including our liquidity and financing arrangements. The measurement of our obligations, costs and liabilities associated with benefits pursuant to our pension and postretirement benefit plans requires that we estimate the present value of projected future payments to all participants, including assumptions related to discount rates, investment returns on designated plan assets, health care cost trends, and demographic experience. If future economic or demographic trends and results are different from our assumptions, then our obligations could be higher than we currently estimate. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, or if we are required or elect to fund any material portion of the liability now or in the future, we could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, seek additional capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. In addition, if our operating results and available cash are insufficient to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and may be required to dispose of material assets or operations in order to meet our pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain any proceeds on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any pension or postretirement healthcare and life insurance obligations then due. In addition, our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or ERISA. ERISA, along with certain provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or the Code, requires minimum funding contributions and the PBGC has the authority under certain circumstances to petition a court to terminate an underfunded pension plan. One of those circumstances is the occurrence of an event with respect to which the PBGC determines that the possible long-term loss of the PBGC with respect to the plan may reasonably be expected to increase unreasonably if the plan is not terminated. If our U.S. defined benefit pension plans were to be terminated, we would incur a liability to the plans or the PBGC equal to the amount by which the liabilities of the plans, calculated on a termination basis, exceed the assets of the plans, which amount would likely exceed the amount that we have estimated to be the underfunded amount as of September 30, 2011. Please see Note 13, “Benefit Obligations,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report for further details on our pension and postretirement benefit plans, including funding status. We may incur liabilities as a result of our obligation to indemnify, and to share certain liabilities with, Lucent Technologies Inc., or Lucent, in connection with our spin-off from Lucent in September 2000. Pursuant to the Contribution and Distribution Agreement between us and Lucent, a predecessor to Alcatel-Lucent, Lucent contributed to us substantially all of the assets, liabilities and operations associated with its 29 Table of Contents enterprise networking businesses and distributed all of the outstanding shares of our common stock to its stockholders. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement, among other things, provides that, in general, we will indemnify Lucent for all liabilities including certain pre-distribution tax obligations of Lucent relating to our businesses and all contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution primarily relating to our businesses or otherwise assigned to us. In addition, the Contribution and Distribution Agreement provides that certain contingent liabilities not directly identifiable with one of the parties accruing pre-distribution will be shared in the proportion of 90% by Lucent and 10% by us. The Contribution and Distribution Agreement also provides that contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to Lucent’s businesses shall be borne 90% by Lucent and 10% by us and contingent liabilities accruing pre-distribution in excess of $50 million that are primarily related to our businesses shall be borne equally by the parties. Please see Note 17, “Commitments and Contingencies,” to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report for a description of certain matters involving Lucent for which we have assumed responsibility under the Contribution and Distribution Agreement. We cannot assure you that Lucent will not submit a claim for indemnification or cost sharing to us in connection with any future matter. In addition, our ability to assess the impact of matters for which we may have to indemnify or share the cost with Lucent is made more difficult by the fact that we do not control the defense of these matters. In addition, in connection with the distribution, we and Lucent entered into a Tax Sharing Agreement that governs the parties’ respective rights, responsibilities and obligations after the distribution with respect to taxes for the periods ending on or before the distribution. Generally, pre-distribution taxes that are clearly attributable to the business of one party will be borne solely by that party, and other pre-distribution taxes will be shared by the parties based on a formula set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement. Costs borne by Avaya under the Tax Sharing Agreement could have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Risks Related to Our Debt Our degree of leverage could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry, expose us to interest rate risk to the extent of our variable rate debt and prevent us from meeting obligations on our indebtedness. A summary of the material terms of our financing agreements can be found in Note 9, “Financing Arrangements,” to the audited consolidated financial statements included in this report. As of September 30, 2011, our total indebtedness under our credit facilities and notes was $6,157 million (excluding capital lease obligations and $9 million of debt discount due upon settlement of our indebtedness). Our degree of leverage could have important consequences, including: • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our indebtedness; • increasing our vulnerability to general economic and industry conditions; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures and future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as borrowings under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and our senior secured credit facility are at variable rates of interest; • limiting our ability to make strategic acquisitions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are less highly leveraged. 30 Table of Contents Our debt agreements contain restrictions that limit our flexibility in operating our business. Our credit facilities, the indenture governing our senior unsecured cash-pay notes (the “cash pay notes”) and our senior unsecured payment-in-kind, or PIK, toggle notes (the “PIK toggle notes,” and together with the cash pay notes, the “senior unsecured notes”), each due 2015, and the indenture governing our senior secured notes due 2019 (the “senior secured notes,” and together with the senior unsecured notes, the “notes”) contain various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specific types of transactions. These covenants limit our and our restricted subsidiaries’ ability to: • incur or guarantee additional debt and issue or sell certain preferred stock; • pay dividends on, redeem or repurchase our capital stock; • make certain acquisitions or investments; • incur or assume certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; and • sell assets to, or merge or consolidate with, another company. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under one or both of our credit facilities and/or the indentures governing the notes. In the event of any default under either of our credit facilities, the applicable lenders could elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all borrowings and loans outstanding, together with accrued and unpaid interest and any fees and other obligations, to be due and payable, which would be an event of default under the indentures governing the notes. If we were unable to repay or otherwise refinance these borrowings and loans when due, the applicable secured lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness, which could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation. In the event our lenders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and our other ongoing liquidity needs, and we may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund our planned capital expenditures, acquisitions and other ongoing liquidity needs depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which is subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities or that future borrowings will be available to us under either of our credit facilities or otherwise in an amount sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. In the absence of such operating results and resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. Our credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from the disposition. Accordingly, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain any proceeds on terms acceptable to us or at all, and any such proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness, which could further exacerbate the risks associated with our degree of leverage. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. Although our credit facilities and the indentures governing the notes contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these 31 Table of Contents restrictions are subject to a number of significant qualifications and exceptions, and any indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. Any additional borrowings under our credit facilities effectively would be senior to the notes and the guarantees of the notes by our subsidiary guarantors to the extent of the value of the assets securing such borrowings. In addition, if we incur any additional indebtedness that ranks equally with the notes, the holders of that debt will be entitled to share ratably with the holders of the notes in any proceeds distributed in connection with any insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding-up of us. To the extent new debt is added to our and our subsidiaries’ currently anticipated debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries face could intensify. The right of holders of our senior unsecured notes to receive payments is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. Our obligations under our senior unsecured notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of those notes are unsecured, but our obligations, and each other borrower’s obligations, under each of our credit facilities and our senior secured notes, and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of those facilities and senior secured notes, are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our tangible and intangible assets, including the stock and the assets of most of our current and certain future wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries and a portion of the stock of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. As of September 30, 2011, we had $6,157 million in outstanding debt (excluding capital lease obligations) on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which $4,623 million was secured. The indentures governing our notes permit us and our restricted subsidiaries to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including secured indebtedness. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under either of our credit facilities or the indenture governing our senior secured notes, the lenders or the trustee under the indenture governing our senior secured notes, as applicable, could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders or the trustee, as applicable, could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of the senior unsecured notes, even if an event of default exists under the indenture governing the senior unsecured notes at such time. Furthermore, if the lenders or the trustee under the indenture governing our senior secured notes foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under the senior unsecured notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior unsecured notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the senior unsecured notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims of holders of our senior unsecured notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy those claims fully. The claims of holders of our notes to assets of any non-guarantor subsidiary are structurally subordinated to all of the creditors of that subsidiary. In general, our foreign subsidiaries, unrestricted subsidiaries, non-wholly owned subsidiaries and other subsidiaries that do not borrow or guarantee our indebtedness under our credit facilities are not required to guarantee our notes. Accordingly, claims of holders of the notes are structurally subordinated to the claims of creditors of these non-guarantor subsidiaries, including trade creditors. All obligations of our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have to be satisfied before any of the assets of such subsidiaries would be available for distribution, upon a liquidation or otherwise, to us or a guarantor of the notes. If we default on our obligations to pay our indebtedness, we may not be able to make payments on one or more series of our notes. Any default under the agreements governing our indebtedness, including a default under either of our credit facilities, that is not waived by the required lenders, or a default under either of the indentures governing our notes and the remedies sought by the holders of such indebtedness, could prevent us from paying principal, premium, if any, and interest on each series of our notes and substantially decrease the market value of such notes. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow and are otherwise unable to obtain funds necessary to 32 Table of Contents meet required payments of principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness, or if we otherwise fail to comply with the various covenants in the instruments governing our indebtedness, we could be in default under the terms of the agreements governing such indebtedness. In the event of such default, the holders of such indebtedness could elect to declare all the funds borrowed thereunder to be due and payable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, the lenders under our credit facilities could elect to terminate their commitments thereunder, cease making further loans and institute foreclosure proceedings against our assets, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. If we breach our covenants under either of our credit facilities and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required lenders. If this occurs, we would be in default under our credit facilities, the lenders could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. We may not be able to repurchase our notes upon a change of control. Upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding notes at 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. The source of funds for any such purchase of the notes will be our available cash or cash generated from our operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. We may not be able to repurchase the notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the notes that are tendered upon a change of control. Further, we may be contractually restricted under the terms of our credit facilities from repurchasing all of the notes tendered by holders upon a change of control. Accordingly, we may not be able to satisfy our obligations to purchase the notes unless we are able to refinance or obtain waivers under our credit facilities. Our failure to repurchase one or more series of notes upon a change of control would cause a default under the indenture governing such notes and a cross default under our credit facilities and the indenture governing other series of notes. The credit facilities also provide that a change of control will be a default that permits lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings and loans thereunder. Any of our future debt agreements may contain similar provisions. Federal and state fraudulent transfer laws may permit a court to void or limit the amount payable under our notes or the related guarantees, and, if that occurs, a holder of our notes may receive limited or no payments on the notes and guarantees affected. Federal and state fraudulent transfer and conveyance statutes may apply to the issuance of our notes and the incurrence of the related guarantees. Under federal bankruptcy law and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer or conveyance laws, which may vary from state to state, the notes or guarantees could be voided as a fraudulent transfer or conveyance if (1) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, issued the notes or incurred the guarantees with the intent of hindering, delaying or defrauding creditors or (2) we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration in return for either issuing the notes or incurring the guarantees and, in the case of (2) only, one of the following is also true at the time thereof: • we or any of the guarantors, as applicable, were insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees; • the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees left us or any of the guarantors, as applicable, with an unreasonably small amount of capital to carry on the business; • we or any of the guarantors intended to, or believed that we or such guarantor would, incur debts beyond our or such guarantor’s ability to pay as they mature; or • we or any of the guarantors were a defendant in an action for money damages, or had a judgment for money damages docketed against us or such guarantor if, in either case, after final judgment, the judgment is unsatisfied. If a court were to find that the issuance of the notes or the incurrence of the guarantees was a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, the court could void the payment obligations under the notes or such guarantee or limit the amount of payment or subordinate the notes or such guarantee to presently existing and future indebtedness of 33 Table of Contents ours or of the related guarantor, or require the holders of the notes to repay any amounts received. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of our notes may not receive any payment on the notes. As a general matter, value is given for a transfer or an obligation if, in exchange for the transfer or obligation, property is transferred or an antecedent debt is secured or satisfied. Under applicable law, a court may determine that a debtor has not received value in connection with a debt offering if the debtor uses the proceeds of that offering to make a dividend payment or otherwise retire or redeem equity securities issued by the debtor. We cannot be certain as to the standards a court would use to determine whether or not we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that the notes or the guarantees would not be voided, limited in amount or subordinated to our or any of our guarantors’ other debt. A holder of our senior unsecured notes may be required to pay U.S. Federal income tax on our PIK toggle notes even if we do not pay cash interest. We have the option to pay interest on our senior unsecured PIK toggle notes in cash interest or PIK interest. For U.S. Federal income tax purposes, the existence of this option means that none of the interest payments on the PIK toggle notes is qualified stated interest. Consequently, the PIK toggle notes are treated for U.S. Federal income tax purposes as issued at a discount and income inclusions on these notes will be determined pursuant to the original issue discount (“OID”) rules. A U.S. holder of our PIK toggle notes will be required to include OID in gross income as it accrues, regardless of whether such holder uses the accrual method of accounting. We are controlled by Silver Lake and TPG, whose interests may not be aligned with a holder of our notes. The Sponsors and their affiliated funds own a majority of the outstanding equity securities of our Parent. In addition, the Sponsors control substantially all of the voting power of our outstanding equity securities and therefore ultimately control all of our affairs and policies, including the election of our board of directors, the approval of certain actions such as amending our charter, commencing bankruptcy proceedings and taking certain corporate actions (including, without limitation, incurring debt, issuing stock, selling assets and engaging in mergers and acquisitions) and appointing members of our management. In addition, each of the Sponsors has invested in our loans issued under our senior credit facility. Circumstances may occur in which the interests of the Sponsors could be in conflict with a holder of our notes. For example, if we encounter financial difficulties or are unable to pay our debts as they mature, the Sponsors might pursue strategies that favor equity investors or our secured creditors over unsecured note holders. The Sponsors may also have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in their judgment, could enhance their equity investments, even though such transactions might involve risks to a holder of our notes. Additionally, the Sponsors are not prohibited from making investments in any of our competitors. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our notes may be affected by our organizational structure. We are dependent upon payments from our subsidiaries to fund payments to holders of our notes, and our ability to receive funds from our subsidiaries is dependent upon the profitability of our subsidiaries and restrictions imposed by law and contracts. We rely upon dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to generate a significant portion of the funds necessary to meet our obligations. Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and our non-guarantor subsidiaries will have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay amounts due under our notes or to make any funds available to pay those amounts, whether by dividend, distribution, loan or other payments. Further, the creditors of our subsidiaries have direct claims on the subsidiaries and their assets and the claims of holders of the notes are “structurally subordinated” to any existing and future liabilities of our non-guarantor subsidiaries. This means that the creditors of the non-guarantor subsidiaries have priority in their claims on the assets of such subsidiaries over the creditors of us, including the holders of the notes. 34 Table of Contents The secured indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility will be effectively senior to our senior secured notes to the extent of the value of the collateral securing such facility on a first-priority basis and the secured indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility will be effectively senior to our senior secured notes to the extent of the value of the real estate securing such facility. Our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility has a first priority lien in certain of our personal property and that of the subsidiary guarantors, with certain exceptions. Our senior secured credit facility and our senior secured notes have a second priority lien in that property. The indenture governing the senior secured notes permits us to incur additional indebtedness secured on a first-priority basis by such property in the future. The first priority liens in the collateral securing indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and any such future indebtedness will be higher in priority as to such collateral than the security interests securing our senior secured notes and the guarantees thereof. Holders of the indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and any other indebtedness secured by higher priority liens on such collateral will be entitled to receive proceeds from the realization of value of such collateral to repay such indebtedness in full before a holder of the senior secured notes will be entitled to any recovery from such collateral. As a result, holders of our senior secured notes will only be entitled to receive proceeds from the realization of value of assets securing our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility on a higher priority basis after all indebtedness and other obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and any other obligations secured by higher priority liens on such assets are repaid in full. Our senior secured notes will be effectively junior in right of payment to indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility and any other indebtedness secured by higher priority liens on such collateral to the extent of the realizable value of such collateral. Our senior secured credit facility has a first priority lien in certain of our real estate and that of the subsidiary guarantors, with certain exceptions. Our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility has a second priority lien in that property. The indenture governing our senior secured notes permits us to incur additional indebtedness secured on a first-priority basis by such property in the future. Our senior secured notes and the guarantees thereof are not secured by a lien on such property. Holders of the indebtedness under our senior credit facility and any other indebtedness secured by liens on such collateral will be entitled to receive proceeds from the realization of value of such collateral to repay such indebtedness in full before a holder of our senior secured notes will be entitled to any recovery from such collateral. As a result, holders of our senior secured notes will only be entitled to receive proceeds from the realization of value of such collateral after all indebtedness and other obligations secured by liens on such assets are repaid in full. Our senior secured notes will be effectively junior in right of payment to indebtedness under our senior secured credit facility and any other indebtedness secured by higher priority liens on such collateral to the extent of the realizable value of such collateral. The right of holders of our senior secured notes to receive proceeds from the sale of collateral securing our senior secured notes will be pari passu with (and junior with respect to real estate collateral to) the claims of lenders and counterparties under our senior secured credit facility and certain future indebtedness. The loans under our senior secured credit facility and our senior secured notes are, and certain future indebtedness may be, secured on a pari passu basis by the same collateral consisting of a first priority perfected lien and security interest in substantially all of our and the guarantors’ assets (except for cash, accounts, accounts receivable, deposit accounts, securities accounts, chattel paper, inventory and proceeds thereof, as to which the senior secured notes and the senior secured credit facility will be secured by a second priority lien and except for real estate, as to which the senior secured notes will not be secured), subject to certain exceptions. As a result, holders of our senior secured notes will receive distributions from any foreclosure proceeds of any of our and the guarantors’ assets constituting collateral (other than real estate) for the senior secured notes on a pro rata basis with the lenders under our senior secured credit facility and certain future indebtedness and holders of our senior secured notes will only be entitled to receive proceeds from the realization of value of real estate collateral after all indebtedness and other obligations secured by liens on such assets are repaid in full. 35 Table of Contents The collateral securing our senior secured notes may not be valuable enough to satisfy all the obligations secured by the collateral. We have secured our obligations under our senior secured notes by the pledge of certain of our assets. The value of the pledged assets in the event of a liquidation will depend upon market and economic conditions, the availability of buyers and similar factors. No independent appraisals of any of the pledged property were prepared by or on behalf of us in connection with the offering of our senior secured notes. Accordingly, we cannot assure holders of our senior secured notes that the proceeds of any sale of the pledged assets following an acceleration to maturity with respect to our senior secured notes would be sufficient to satisfy, or would not be substantially less than, amounts due on our senior secured notes and the other debt secured thereby. If the proceeds of any sale of the pledged assets were not sufficient to repay all amounts due on our senior secured notes after satisfying the obligations to pay any creditors with prior liens, holders of our senior secured notes (to the extent such notes were not repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the pledged assets) would have only an unsecured claim against our remaining assets. By their nature, some or all of the pledged assets may be illiquid and may have no readily ascertainable market value. Likewise, we cannot assure a holder of senior secured notes that the pledged assets will be saleable or, if saleable, that there will not be substantial delays in their liquidation. To the extent that liens securing obligations under our credit facilities, pre-existing liens, liens permitted under the indenture governing our senior secured notes and other rights, including liens on excluded assets, encumber any of the collateral securing our senior secured notes and the guarantees, those parties have or may exercise rights and remedies with respect to the collateral (including rights to require marshalling of assets) that could adversely affect the value of the collateral and the ability of the collateral agent, the trustee under the indenture or the holders of our senior secured notes to realize or foreclose on the collateral. Our senior secured notes and the related guarantees will be secured, subject to certain exceptions and to permitted liens, by a first priority lien in the collateral that secures our senior secured credit facility on a first-priority basis and will share equally in right of payment to the extent of the value of such collateral securing such senior secured credit facility on a first-priority basis. The indenture governing our senior secured notes permits us, subject to compliance with certain financial tests, to issue additional indebtedness secured by a lien that ranks equally with our senior secured notes. This would reduce amounts payable to holders of our senior secured notes from the proceeds of any sale of the collateral. The collateral securing our senior secured notes may be diluted under certain circumstances. The collateral that secures the senior secured notes also secures the senior secured credit facility and obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility. The collateral may also secure additional indebtedness that we incur in the future, subject to restrictions on our ability to incur debt and liens under our senior secured multi-currency asset based revolving credit facility, senior secured credit facility, and the indentures governing our notes. The rights of holders of our senior secured notes to the collateral would be diluted by any increase in the indebtedness secured by this collateral or portions thereof. The rights of holders of our senior secured notes with respect to the ABL Priority Collateral will be substantially limited by the terms of the ABL Intercreditor Agreement. The collateral agent for the senior secured notes, the collateral agent for the senior secured credit facility and the collateral agent under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility are party to the intercreditor agreement, entered into on October 26, 2007, between Citicorp USA, Inc. and Citibank, N.A., as it may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or modified from time to time (the “ABL Intercreditor Agreement”). The ABL Intercreditor Agreement (as so amended) significantly restricts any action that may be taken by the collateral agent for the senior secured notes with respect to the collateral over which the holders of senior secured multi-currency asset based revolving credit facility loans have a first-priority lien (“ABL Priority Collateral”), even during an event of default. Under the terms of the ABL Intercreditor Agreement, at any time 36 Table of Contents that obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility are outstanding, any actions that may be taken with respect to (or in respect of) the ABL Priority Collateral that secures obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility on a first-priority basis, including the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against such ABL Priority Collateral and to control the conduct of such proceedings, and the approval of amendments to, releases of such ABL Priority Collateral from the lien of, and waivers of past defaults under, such documents relating to such ABL Priority Collateral, will be at the direction of the holders of the obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility, and the holders of the senior secured notes and the lenders under our senior secured credit facility, which are secured on a second-priority basis by such ABL Priority Collateral, may be adversely affected. The ABL Priority Collateral so released will no longer secure our and the guarantors’ obligations under the senior secured notes and the guarantees. In addition, because the holders of the indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility control the disposition of such ABL Priority Collateral, such holders could decide not to proceed against such ABL Priority Collateral, regardless of whether there is a default under the documents governing such indebtedness or under the indenture governing the senior secured notes. In such event, the only remedy available to holders of our senior secured notes would be to sue for payment on those notes and the related guarantees. In addition, under the ABL Intercreditor Agreement, the collateral agent for the senior secured notes may not assert any right of marshalling that may be available under applicable law with respect to such ABL Priority Collateral. Without this waiver of the right of marshalling, holders of indebtedness secured by first priority liens in the ABL Priority Collateral would likely be required to liquidate collateral on which the senior secured notes did not have a lien, if any, prior to liquidating the collateral, thereby maximizing the proceeds of the collateral (due to the reductions in the amount of the indebtedness with a prior claim on such collateral) that would be available to repay our obligations under the senior secured notes. As a result of this waiver, the proceeds of sales of such ABL Priority Collateral could be applied to repay any indebtedness secured by first priority liens in such ABL Priority Collateral before applying proceeds of other collateral securing indebtedness, and a holder of senior secured notes may recover less than it would have if such proceeds were applied in the order most favorable to it. The indenture governing the senior secured notes and the ABL Intercreditor Agreement contain certain provisions benefiting holders of indebtedness under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility, including provisions prohibiting the collateral agent for the senior secured notes and the collateral agent for the senior secured credit facility from objecting following the filing of a bankruptcy petition to a number of important matters regarding the collateral and the financing to be provided to us. After such filing, the value of this collateral could materially deteriorate and a holder of senior secured notes would be unable to raise an objection. In addition, the right of holders of obligations secured by first priority liens to foreclose upon and sell such collateral upon the occurrence of an event of default also would be subject to limitations under applicable bankruptcy laws if we or any of our subsidiaries become subject to a bankruptcy proceeding. The ABL Intercreditor Agreement also gives the holders of first priority liens on the ABL Priority Collateral the right to access and use the collateral that secures the senior secured notes to allow those holders to protect the ABL Priority Collateral and to process, store and dispose of the ABL Priority Collateral. The ABL Priority Collateral will also be subject to any and all exceptions, defects, encumbrances, liens and other imperfections as may be accepted by the lenders under our senior secured multicurrency asset-based revolving credit facility and other creditors that have the benefit of first priority liens on such collateral from time to time, whether on or after the date the senior secured notes and guarantees were issued. The existence of any such exceptions, defects, encumbrances, liens and other imperfections could adversely affect the value of the collateral securing the senior secured notes as well as the ability of the collateral agent for the senior secured notes or the collateral agent for the senior secured credit facility to realize or foreclose on such collateral. 37 Table of Contents The rights of holders of our senior secured notes in the collateral securing such notes may be adversely affected by the first lien intercreditor agreement. The rights of the holders of our senior secured notes with respect to the collateral that secures such notes is subject to a first lien intercreditor agreement among all holders of obligations secured by that collateral on a pari passu basis (“first lien obligations”), including the obligations under the senior secured notes and our senior secured credit facility. Under that intercreditor agreement, any actions that may be taken with respect to such collateral, including the ability to cause the commencement of enforcement proceedings against such collateral, to control such proceedings and to approve amendments to releases of such collateral from the lien of, and waive past defaults under, such documents relating to such collateral, may be taken solely by the collateral agent for the senior secured credit facility until (1) our obligations under the senior secured credit facility are discharged (which discharge does not include certain refinancings of the senior secured credit facility) or (2) 90 days after the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing the senior secured notes or any other agreement governing first lien obligations. Under the circumstances described in clause (2) of the preceding sentence, the authorized representative of the holders of the indebtedness that represents the largest outstanding principal amount of indebtedness secured by the collateral on a pari passu basis with the other first lien obligations (other than the senior secured credit facility) and that has complied with the applicable notice provisions gains the right to take actions with respect to the collateral. Even if the authorized representative of the senior secured notes gains the right take actions with respect to the collateral in the circumstances described in clause (2) above, the authorized representative must stop doing so (and those powers with respect to the collateral would revert to the authorized representative of the lenders under the senior secured credit facility) if such lenders’ authorized representative has commenced and is diligently pursuing enforcement action with respect to the collateral or the grantor of the security interest in that collateral (i.e., we or the applicable subsidiary guarantor) is then a debtor under or with respect to (or otherwise subject to) an insolvency or liquidation proceeding. In addition, the senior secured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior secured notes permit us to issue additional series of obligations that also have a pari passu lien on the same collateral with the other first lien obligations. As explained above, any time that the collateral agent for the senior secured credit facility does not have the right to take actions with respect to the collateral pursuant to the first lien intercreditor agreement, that right passes to the authorized representative of the holders of the next largest outstanding principal amount of indebtedness secured by a pari passu lien on the collateral with the other first lien obligations. If we issue or incur additional first lien obligations in the future in a greater principal amount than the senior secured notes, then the authorized representative for that additional indebtedness would be earlier in line to exercise rights under the first lien intercreditor agreement than the authorized representative for the senior secured notes. Under the first lien intercreditor agreement, the authorized representative of the holders of the senior secured notes may not object following the filing of a bankruptcy petition to any debtor-in- possession financing or to the use of the common collateral to secure that financing, subject to conditions and limited exceptions. After such a filing, the value of this collateral could materially deteriorate, and holders of the senior secured notes would be unable to raise an objection. The collateral that secures and will secure the senior secured notes and related guarantees also is and will be subject to any and all exceptions, defects, encumbrances, liens and other imperfections as may be accepted by the authorized representative of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility during any period that such authorized representative controls actions with respect to the collateral pursuant to the first lien intercreditor agreement. The existence of any such exceptions, defects, encumbrances, liens and other imperfections could adversely affect the value of the collateral securing the senior secured notes as well as the ability of the collateral agent for the senior secured notes to realize or foreclose on such collateral for the benefit of the holders of the senior secured notes. 38 Table of Contents The lenders under the credit facilities have the discretion to release the guarantors under the credit facilities in a variety of circumstances, which will cause those guarantors to be released from their guarantees of the senior secured notes. While any obligations under the credit facilities remain outstanding, any guarantee of the senior secured notes may be released without action by, or consent of, any holder of the senior secured notes or the trustee under the indenture governing the senior secured notes, at the discretion of lenders under the credit facilities, or if the related guarantor is no longer a guarantor of obligations under the credit facilities or any other indebtedness. The lenders under the credit facilities have the discretion to release the guarantees under the credit facilities in a variety of circumstances. Holders of our senior secured notes will not have a claim as creditors against any subsidiary that is no longer a guarantor of our senior secured notes, and the indebtedness and other liabilities, including trade payables, whether secured or unsecured, of those subsidiaries will effectively be senior to the claims of holders of our senior secured notes. There are circumstances other than repayment or discharge of our senior secured notes under which the collateral securing such notes and the related guarantees will be released automatically, without the consent of the holders of our senior secured notes or the consent of the trustee. Under various circumstances, collateral securing the senior secured notes will be released automatically, including: • a sale, transfer or other disposal of such collateral in a transaction not prohibited under the indenture governing the senior secured notes; • with respect to collateral held by a guarantor, upon the release of such guarantor from its guarantee; • with respect to any collateral in which the senior secured notes have a second priority lien, upon any release by the lenders under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility of their first-priority security interest in such collateral; provided that, if the release occurs in connection with a foreclosure or exercise of remedies by the collateral agent for the lenders under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility, the lien on that collateral will be automatically released but any proceeds thereof not used to repay the obligations under our senior secured multi-currency asset-based revolving credit facility will be subject to lien in favor of the collateral agent for the noteholders and our senior secured credit facility; and • with respect to the collateral upon which the senior secured notes have a first priority lien, upon any release in connection with a foreclosure or exercise of remedies with respect to that collateral directed by the authorized representative of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility during any period in which such authorized representative controls actions with respect to the collateral pursuant to the first lien intercreditor agreement. Even though holders of our senior secured notes share ratably with the lenders under our senior secured credit facility, the authorized representative of the lenders under our senior secured credit facility will initially control actions with respect to the collateral, whether the holders of our senior secured notes agree or disagree with those actions. The imposition of certain permitted liens will cause the assets on which such liens are imposed to be excluded from the collateral securing our senior secured notes and the related guarantees. There are also certain other categories of property that are also excluded from the collateral securing our senior secured notes. The indenture governing our senior secured notes permits liens in favor of third parties to secure additional debt, including purchase money indebtedness and capitalized lease obligations, and any assets subject to such liens will be automatically excluded from the collateral securing our senior secured notes and the related guarantees to the extent the agreements governing such indebtedness prohibit additional liens. In addition, certain categories of assets are excluded from the collateral securing our senior secured notes and the guarantees. Excluded assets include, but are not limited to, among other things, the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries, certain capital stock and other securities of our subsidiaries and equity investees, leaseholds or other non-fee simple interests in 39 Table of Contents real property, fee simple interests in real property having a fair market value of less than $25.0 million, and the proceeds from any of the foregoing. If an event of default occurs and our senior secured notes are accelerated, such notes and the related guarantees will rank equally with the holders of other unsubordinated and unsecured indebtedness of the relevant entity with respect to such excluded property. Sales of assets by us or our subsidiary guarantors could reduce the pool of assets securing the senior secured notes and the related guarantees. The security documents relating to our senior secured notes allow us and the guarantors to remain in possession of, retain exclusive control over, freely operate and collect, invest and dispose of any income from, the collateral securing the senior secured notes. To the extent we sell any assets that constitute such collateral, the proceeds from such sale will be subject to the liens securing our senior secured notes only to the extent such proceeds would otherwise constitute “collateral” securing such notes and the guarantees under the security documents. The rights of holders of our senior secured notes in the collateral securing such notes may be adversely affected by the failure to perfect security interests in collateral. Applicable law requires that a security interest in certain tangible and intangible assets can only be properly perfected and its priority retained through certain actions undertaken by the secured party. The liens in the collateral securing our senior secured notes may not be perfected with respect to the claims of such notes if and to the extent that the collateral agent was not able to take the actions necessary to perfect any of these liens on or prior to the date of the indenture governing our senior secured notes. There can be no assurance that the lenders under the senior secured credit facility will have taken all actions necessary to create properly perfected security interests, which may result in the loss of the priority of the security interest in favor of holders of our senior secured notes to which they would otherwise have been entitled. In addition, applicable law requires that certain property and rights acquired after the grant of a general security interest, such as equipment subject to a certificate of title and certain proceeds, can only be perfected at the time such property and rights are acquired and identified. We and the guarantors have limited obligations to perfect the security interest of holders of our senior secured notes in specified collateral. There can be no assurance that the trustee or the collateral agent for our senior secured notes will monitor, or that we will inform such trustee or collateral agent of, the future acquisition of property and rights that constitute collateral, and that the necessary action will be taken to properly perfect the security interest in such after-acquired collateral. Neither the trustee nor the collateral agent for our senior secured notes has an obligation to monitor the acquisition of additional property or rights that constitute collateral or the perfection of any security interest. Such failure may result in the loss of the security interest in the collateral or the priority of the security interest in favor of our senior secured notes against third parties. The collateral securing our senior secured notes is subject to casualty risks. We intend to maintain insurance or otherwise insure against hazards in a manner appropriate and customary for our business. There are, however, some losses, including losses resulting from terrorist acts that may be either uninsurable or not economically insurable, in whole or in part. As a result, we cannot assure holders of our senior secured notes that the insurance proceeds will compensate us fully for our losses. If there is a total or partial loss of any of the pledged assets, we cannot assure holders of our senior secured notes that the proceeds received by us in respect thereof will be sufficient to satisfy all the secured obligations, including our senior secured notes and the related guarantees. Bankruptcy laws may limit the ability of holders of our senior secured notes to realize value from the collateral securing such notes. The right of the collateral agent to repossess and dispose of the pledged assets upon the occurrence of an event of default under the indenture governing our senior secured notes is likely to be significantly impaired by applicable bankruptcy law if a bankruptcy case were to be commenced by or against us before the collateral agent 40 Table of Contents repossessed and disposed of the pledged assets. For example, under Title 11 of the United States Code, pursuant to the automatic stay imposed upon the bankruptcy filing, a secured creditor is prohibited from repossessing its security from a debtor in a bankruptcy case, or from disposing of security repossessed from such debtor, or taking other actions to levy against a debtor, without bankruptcy court approval. Moreover, the United States Bankruptcy Code permits the debtor to continue to retain and to use collateral even though the debtor is in default under the applicable debt instruments, provided that the secured creditor is given “adequate protection.” The meaning of the term “adequate protection” may vary according to circumstances (and is within the discretion of the bankruptcy court), but it is intended in general to protect the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral and may include cash payments or the granting of additional security, if and at such times as the court in its discretion determines, for any diminution in the value of the collateral as a result of the automatic stay of repossession or disposition or any use of the collateral by the debtor during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. Generally, adequate protection payments, in the form of interest or otherwise, are not required to be paid by a debtor to a secured creditor unless the bankruptcy court determines that the value of the secured creditor’s interest in the collateral is declining during the pendency of the bankruptcy case. Due to the imposition of the automatic stay, the lack of a precise definition of the term “adequate protection” and the broad discretionary powers of a bankruptcy court, it is impossible to predict (1) how long payments under our senior secured notes could be delayed following commencement of a bankruptcy case, (2) whether or when the collateral agent could repossess or dispose of the pledged assets or (3) whether or to what extent a holder of senior secured notes would be compensated for any delay in payment or loss of value of the pledged assets through the requirement of “adequate protection.” In the event of a bankruptcy of the Company or any of the guarantors of our indebtedness, holders of our senior secured notes may be deemed to have an unsecured claim to the extent that our obligations in respect of those notes exceed the fair market value of the collateral securing those notes. In any bankruptcy proceeding with respect to us or any of the guarantors, it is possible that the bankruptcy trustee, the debtor-in-possession or competing creditors will assert that the fair market value of the collateral with respect to our senior secured notes on the date of the bankruptcy filing was less than the then current principal amount of such notes. Upon a finding by the bankruptcy court that our senior secured notes are under-collateralized, the claims in the bankruptcy proceeding with respect to such notes would be bifurcated between a secured claim and an unsecured claim, and the unsecured claim would not be entitled to the benefits of security in the collateral. In such event, the secured claims of holders of our unsecured notes would be limited to the value of the collateral. Other consequences of a finding of under-collateralization would be, among other things, a lack of entitlement on the part of the holders of our senior secured notes to receive post-petition interest and a lack of entitlement on the part of the unsecured portion of our senior secured notes to receive other “adequate protection” under federal bankruptcy laws. In addition, if any payments of post-petition interest had been made at the time of such a finding of under-collateralization, those payments could be recharacterized by the bankruptcy court as a reduction of the principal amount of the secured claim with respect to our senior secured notes. Any future pledge of collateral in favor of a holder of senior secured notes might be voidable in bankruptcy. Any future pledge of collateral in favor of our lenders or holders of our senior secured indebtedness, including pursuant to security documents delivered after the date of the indenture governing the senior secured notes, might be voidable by the pledgor (as debtor in possession) or by its trustee in bankruptcy if certain events or circumstances exist or occur, including, under the United States Bankruptcy Code, if the pledgor is insolvent at the time of the pledge, the pledge permits a holder of our senior secured notes to receive a greater recovery than if the pledge had not been given and a bankruptcy proceeding in respect of the pledgor is commenced with 90 days following the pledge, or, in certain circumstances, a longer period. 41 Table of Contents We do not intend to offer to register the senior secured notes or to exchange the senior secured notes in a registered exchange offer. We do not intend to register the senior secured notes under the Securities Act or to offer to exchange those notes in an exchange offer registered under the Securities Act. We will not be subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”), with respect to those notes. As a result, holders of our senior secured notes will only be entitled to receive certain information about us specified in the indenture governing the senior secured notes and information required by Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act. Except as included in the reports filed with the SEC, information about our company will be provided to holders of our senior secured notes on a confidential basis and may not be copied or reproduced, nor may it be distributed or any of its contents disclosed, to anyone other than holders of our senior secured notes and prospective purchasers of those notes pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4). In addition, the indenture governing the senior secured notes will not be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act and we will not be required to comply with any provision of the Trust Indenture Act. A holder’s ability to transfer our notes may be limited by the absence of an active trading market, and an active trading market for such notes may not develop. Our notes are relatively new securities for which there is no established market. Accordingly, the development or liquidity of any market for the notes is uncertain. We do not intend to apply for a listing of the notes on a securities exchange or any automated dealer quotation system. We cannot assure a holder of our notes as to the liquidity of markets that may develop for the notes, such holder’s ability to sell the notes or the price at which such holder would be able to sell such notes. If such markets were to exist, the notes could trade at prices that may be lower than their principal amount or purchase price depending on many factors, including prevailing interest rates, the market for similar notes, our financial and operations performance and other factors. Historically, the market for noninvestment grade debt has been subject to disruptions that have caused substantial volatility in the prices of securities similar to the notes. The market, if any, for the notes may experience similar disruptions, and any such disruptions may adversely affect the prices at which a holder of notes may sell its notes. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 