ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the factors described below, in addition to those discussed elsewhere in this report, in analyzing an investment in our common stock. If any of the events described below occurs, our business, financial condition, and results of operations would likely suffer, the trading price of our common stock could fall, and you could lose all or part of the money you paid for our common stock. The risk factors described below are not the only ones we face. Risks and uncertainties not known to us currently, or that may appear immaterial, also may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, the following risk factors and uncertainties could cause our actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements, whether made in this annual report or future quarterly reports to stockholders, press releases, or oral statements, whether in presentations, responses to questions, or otherwise. We are heavily dependent upon the worldwide electronics industry, which is characterized by economic cycles and fluctuations in product demand. A downturn in the electronics industry or prolonged global economic crisis could result in decreased demand for our manufacturing services and materially impact our financial condition. A majority of our revenue is generated from the electronics industry, which is characterized by intense competition, relatively short product life cycles, and significant fluctuations in product demand. The industry is subject to economic cycles and recessionary periods. Due to the uncertainty in the end markets served by most of our customers, we have a low level of visibility with respect to future financial results. Consequently, our past operating results, earnings and cash flows may not be indicative of our future operating results, earnings and cash flows. We depend upon a relatively small number of OEM customers for a large portion of our sales, and a decline in sales to major customers could harm our results of operations. A small number of customers are responsible for a significant portion of our sales. Collectively, our five largest OEM customers accounted for approximately 41%, 33% and 33% of our net sales for the years ended December 30, 2013, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively, and one customer represented 15 Table of Contents 20% of our sales in 2013. Sales attributed to OEMs include both direct sales as well as sales that the OEMs place through EMS providers. Our customer concentration could fluctuate, depending on future customer requirements, which will depend in large part on market conditions in the electronics industry segments in which our customers participate. The loss of one or more significant customers or a decline in sales to our significant customers could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition and lead to declines in the trading price of our common stock. In addition, we generate significant accounts receivable in connection with providing manufacturing services to our customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay for the manufacturing services provided by us, our results of operations would be harmed. In addition, during industry downturns, we may need to reduce prices at customer requests to limit the level of order losses, and we may be unable to collect payments from our customers. There can be no assurance that key customers would not cancel orders, that they would continue to place orders with us in the future at the same levels as experienced by us in prior periods, that they would be able to meet their payment obligations, or that the end-products which use our products would be successful. This concentration of customer base may materially and adversely affect our operating results due to the loss or cancellation of business from any of these key customers, significant changes in scheduled deliveries to any of these customers, or decreases in the prices of the products sold to any of these customers. The Chinese member firm of the PwC network, of which our independent registered public accounting firm is also a member, may be temporarily suspended from practicing before the SEC. If a delay in completion of our audit process occurs as a result, we could be unable to timely file certain reports with the SEC, which could cause a default under our Credit Agreement or our Convertible Senior Notes and may result in acceleration of significant amounts of indebtedness. In the year ended December 30, 2013, approximately 29% of our total net sales were to customers in the People’s Republic of China, and we have significant operations in the People’s Republic of China. Certain of our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit documentation related to their audit report included in this Report may be located in China, and certain audit procedures may take place within China’s borders. The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the “PCAOB,” is currently unable to conduct inspections in China or review audit documentation located within China without the approval of Chinese authorities. Like many U.S. companies with significant operations in China, our independent registered public accounting firm may rely on a Chinese member firm for assistance in completing the audit work associated with our subsidiaries and operations in China. On January 22, 2014, Judge Cameron Elliot, an SEC administrative law judge, issued an initial decision suspending the Chinese member firms of the “Big Four” accounting firms, among others, from practicing before the SEC for six months as a result of their failure to provide certain documents to the SEC because to do so would violate Chinese law. The decision is not yet effective and will only become effective when and if the SEC endorses it. If the decision goes into effect, the work of our auditors with respect to our Chinese operations could be delayed. A delay in completion of the audit process could delay the timely filing of our quarterly or annual reports with the SEC. A significant delay in completion of our regular audits could delay provision of financial statements required under our Credit Agreement. Failure to comply with the deadlines for providing such financial statements could result in a default under our Credit Agreement, which would trigger a cross-default under the terms of our Convertible Senior Notes, rendering all such indebtedness immediately due and payable. A delinquency in our filings with the SEC may also result in Nasdaq initiating delisting procedures. Delisting of our stock would also trigger a default under our Credit Agreement and may require us to repurchase our Convertible Senior Notes. The occurrence of any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. If we are unable to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization rates, our results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected. Given the high fixed costs of our operations, decreases in capacity utilization rates can have a significant effect on our business. Accordingly, our ability to maintain or enhance gross margins would continue to depend, 16 Table of Contents in part, on maintaining satisfactory capacity utilization rates. In turn, our ability to maintain satisfactory capacity utilization would depend on the demand for our products, the volume of orders we receive, and our ability to offer products that meet our customers’ requirements at competitive prices. If current or future production capacity fails to match current or future customer demands, our facilities would be underutilized, our sales may not fully cover our fixed overhead expenses, and we would be less likely to achieve expected gross margins. If forecasts and assumptions used to support the realizability of our long-lived assets change in the future, significant impairment charges could result that would adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we generally schedule our QTA production facilities at less than full capacity to retain our ability to respond to unexpected additional quick-turn orders. However, if these orders are not received, we may forego some production and could experience continued excess capacity. If we conclude we have significant, long-term excess capacity, we may decide to permanently close one or more of our facilities and lay off some of our employees. Closures or lay-offs could result in our recording restructuring charges such as severance, other exit costs, and asset impairments as well as potentially causing disruptions in our ability to supply customers. Our results of operations are often subject to demand fluctuations and seasonality. With a high level of fixed operating costs, even small revenue shortfalls would decrease our gross margins and potentially cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our results of operations fluctuate for a variety of reasons, including: • timing of orders from and shipments to major customers; • the levels at which we utilize our manufacturing capacity; • price competition; • changes in our mix of revenues generated from quick-turn versus standard delivery time services; • expenditures, charges or write-offs, including those related to acquisitions, facility restructurings, or asset impairments; and • expenses relating to expanding existing manufacturing facilities. A significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature, and planned expenditures are based in part on anticipated orders. Accordingly, unexpected revenue shortfalls may decrease our gross margins. In addition, we have experienced sales fluctuations due to seasonal patterns in the capital budgeting and purchasing cycles, as well as inventory management practices of our customers and the end markets we serve. In particular, the seasonality of the computer and cellular phone industries and quick-turn ordering patterns affect the overall PCB industry. These seasonal trends have caused fluctuations in our operating results in the past and may continue to do so in the future. Results of operations in any period should not be considered indicative of the results to be expected for any future period. In addition, our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors. If this occurs, the trading price of our common stock likely would decline. Covenants in our credit agreement may adversely affect our company. On September 14, 2012, we became a party to a new facility agreement (the Credit Agreement). The Credit Agreement contains certain financial and operating covenants that include, among other provisions, limitations on dividends or other distributions, maintaining maximum total leverage ratios and minimum net worth, current assets, and interest coverage ratios at both the Company and the Asia Pacific operating segment level. In addition, our Credit Agreement includes a covenant that the Principal Shareholders (as defined in the Shareholders Agreement dated April 9, 2010 as amended on September 14, 2012) will not reduce their shareholding below 15 percent of TTM’s issued shares. The ability to meet the financial covenants can be affected by events beyond our control, and we cannot provide assurance that we will continue to comply with all of these financial covenants. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Credit 17 Table of Contents Agreement. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Credit Agreement, the lenders could elect to declare amounts outstanding there under to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders accelerate the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the indebtedness owed under the Credit Agreement and our other indebtedness. See “Item 7 — Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Liquidity and Capital Resources — Credit Agreement”. Our results can be adversely affected by rising labor costs. There is uncertainty with respect to rising labor costs, in particular within China, where we have most of our manufacturing facilities. In recent periods there have been regular and significant increases in the minimum wage payable in various provinces of China. In addition, we have experienced very high employee turnover in our manufacturing facilities in China, and we are experiencing ongoing difficulty in recruiting employees for these facilities. Furthermore, labor disputes and strikes based partly on wages have in the past slowed or stopped production by certain manufacturers in China. In some cases, employers have responded by significantly increasing the wages of workers at such plants. Any increase in labor costs due to minimum wage laws or customer requirements about scheduling and overtime that we are unable to recover in our pricing to our customers could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the high turnover rate and our difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified employees and the other labor trends we are noting in China could result in production disruptions or delays or the inability to ramp production to meet increased customer orders, resulting in order cancellation or imposition of customer penalties if we are unable to timely deliver products. To respond to competitive pressures and customer requirements, we may further expand internationally in lower cost locations. If we pursue such expansions, we may be required to make additional capital expenditures. In addition, the cost structure in certain countries that are now considered to be favorable may increase as economies develop or as such countries join multinational economic communities or organizations, causing local wages to rise. As a result, we may need to continue to seek new locations with lower-costs and the employee and infrastructure base to support PCB manufacturing. We cannot assure investors that we will realize the anticipated strategic benefits of our international operations or that our international operations will contribute positively to our operating results. In our North America operating segment, rising health care costs pose a significant labor-related risk. We work with our insurance brokers and carriers to control the cost of health care for our employees. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will succeed, especially given recent and pending changes in government oversight of health care. We serve customers and have manufacturing facilities outside the United States and are subject to the risks characteristic of international operations. We have significant manufacturing operations in Asia and sales offices located in Asia and Europe, and we continue to consider additional opportunities to make foreign investments and construct new foreign facilities. For the year ended December 30, 2013, we generated 67% of our net sales from non-U.S. operations, and a significant portion of our manufacturing material was provided by international suppliers during this period. As a result, we are subject to risks relating to significant international operations, including but not limited to: • managing international operations; • imposition of governmental controls; • unstable regulatory environments; • compliance with employment laws; • implementation of disclosure controls, internal controls, financial reporting systems, and governance standards to comply with U.S. accounting and securities laws and regulations; • limitations on imports or exports of our product offerings; • fluctuations in the value of local currencies; 18 Table of Contents • inflation or changes in political and economic conditions; • labor unrest, rising wages, difficulties in staffing and geographical labor shortages; • government or political unrest; • longer payment cycles; • language and communication barriers as well as time zone differences; • cultural differences; • increases in duties and taxation levied on our products; • other potentially adverse tax consequences; • imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds; • travel restrictions; • expropriation of private enterprises; and • the potential reversal of current favorable policies encouraging foreign investment and trade. Our operations in China subject us to risks and uncertainties relating to the laws and regulations of China. Under its current leadership, the government of China has been pursuing economic reform policies, including the encouragement of foreign trade and investment and greater economic decentralization. No assurance can be given, however, that the government of China will continue to pursue such policies, that such policies will be successful if pursued, or that such policies will not be significantly altered from time to time. Despite progress in developing its legal system, China does not have a comprehensive and highly developed system of laws, particularly with respect to foreign investment activities and foreign trade. Enforcement of existing and future laws and contracts is uncertain, and implementation and interpretation thereof may be inconsistent. As the Chinese legal system develops, the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws and the preemption of local regulations by national laws may adversely affect foreign investors. Further, any litigation in China may be protracted and may result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. In addition, though changes in government policies and rules are timely published or communicated, there is no indication of the duration of any grace period before which full implementation and compliance will be required. As a result, we may operate our business in violation of new rules and policies before full compliance can be achieved. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us. We depend on the U.S. government for a substantial portion of our business, which involves unique risks. Changes in government defense spending or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. A significant portion of our revenues is derived from products and services ultimately sold to the U.S. government by our OEM and EMS customers and is therefore affected by, among other things, the federal budget process. We are a supplier, primarily as a subcontractor, to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. The contracts between our direct customers and the government end user are subject to political and budgetary constraints and processes, changes in short-range and long-range strategic plans, the timing of contract awards, the congressional budget authorization and appropriation processes, the government’s ability to terminate contracts for convenience or for default, as well as other risks, such as contractor suspension or debarment in the event of certain violations of legal and regulatory requirements. For the year ended December 30, 2013, aerospace and defense sales accounted for approximately 15% of our total net sales. The substantial majority of these sales are related to both U.S. and foreign military and defense programs. While we do not sell any significant volume of products directly to the U.S. government, we are a supplier to the U.S. government and its agencies as well as foreign governments and agencies. Consequently, our sales are affected by changes in the defense budgets of the U.S. and foreign governments. The domestic and international threat of terrorist activity, emerging nuclear states and conventional military threats 19 Table of Contents have led to an increase in demand for defense products and services and homeland security solutions in the recent past. The U.S. government, however, is facing unprecedented budgeting constraints and the U.S. defense budget is currently declining as a result of budgetary pressures and the wind down of the conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan. The termination or failure to fund one or more significant contracts by the U.S. government could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additionally, the federal government is currently in the process of reviewing and revising the United States Munitions List. Such changes could reduce or eliminate restrictions that currently apply to some of the products we produce. If these regulations or others are changed in a manner that reduces restrictions on products being manufactured overseas, we would likely face an increase in the number of competitors and increased price competition from overseas manufacturers, who are restricted by the current export laws from manufacturing products for U.S. defense systems. Competition in the PCB market is intense, and we could lose market share if we are unable to maintain our current competitive position in end markets using our quick-turn, high technology and high-mix manufacturing services. The PCB industry is intensely competitive, highly fragmented, and rapidly changing. We expect competition to continue, which could result in price reductions, reduced gross margins, and loss of market share. Our principal PCB and substrate competitors include Unimicron, Ibiden, Compeq, Tripod, Isupetasys, Viasystems, Sanmina, Multek, Wus and Zhen Ding. Our principal backplane assembly competitors include Amphenol, Sanmina, Simclar, TT Electronics, and Viasystems. In addition, we increasingly compete on an international basis, and new and emerging technologies may result in new competitors entering our markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have advantages over us, including: • greater financial and manufacturing resources that can be devoted to the development, production, and sale of their products; • more established and broader sales and marketing channels; • more manufacturing facilities worldwide, some of which are closer in proximity to OEMs; • manufacturing facilities that are located in countries with lower production costs; • lower capacity utilization, which in peak market conditions can result in shorter lead times to customers; • ability to add additional capacity faster or more efficiently; • preferred vendor status with existing and potential customers; • greater name recognition; and • larger customer bases. In addition, these competitors may respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies, or adapt more quickly to changes in customer requirements, and devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of their products than we do. We must continually develop improved manufacturing processes to meet our customers’ needs for complex products, and our manufacturing process technology is generally not subject to significant proprietary protection. During recessionary periods in the electronics industry, our strategy of providing quick-turn services, an integrated manufacturing solution, and responsive customer service may take on reduced importance to our customers. As a result, we may need to compete more on the basis of price, which could cause our gross margins to decline. An increase in the cost of raw materials could have an adverse impact on our business and reduce our gross margins. To manufacture PCBs, we use raw materials such as laminated layers of fiberglass, copper foil, chemical solutions, gold, and other commodity products, which we order from our suppliers. In the case of backplane assemblies, components include connectors, sheet metal, capacitors, resistors and diodes, many of which are custom made and controlled by our customers’ approved vendors. If raw material and component prices increase, it may reduce our gross margins. 20 Table of Contents If we are unable to provide our customers with high-end technology, high quality products, and responsive service, or if we are unable to deliver our products to our customers in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition may suffer. In order to maintain our existing customer base and obtain business from new customers, we must demonstrate our ability to produce our products at the level of technology, quality, responsiveness of service, timeliness of delivery, and cost that our customers require. If our products are of substandard quality, if they are not delivered on time, if we are not responsive to our customers’ demands, or if we cannot meet our customers’ technological requirements, our reputation as a reliable supplier of our products would likely be damaged. If we are unable to meet these product and service standards, we may be unable to obtain new contracts or keep our existing customers, and this could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to risks for the use of certain metals from “conflict minerals” originating in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. During the third quarter of 2012, the SEC adopted rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank. These rules impose diligence and disclosure requirements regarding the use of “conflict minerals” mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries as required by Dodd-Frank. Compliance with these rules is likely to result in additional costs and expenses, including cost and expenses incurred for due diligence to determine and verify the sources of any conflict minerals used in our products, in addition to the costs and expenses of remediation and other changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification efforts. These rules may also affect the sourcing and availability of minerals used in the manufacture of our semiconductor devices as there may be only a limited number of suppliers offering “conflict free” minerals that can be used in our products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such minerals in sufficient quantities or at competitive prices. Also, since our supply chain is complex, we may, at a minimum, face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins of the minerals used in our products. We may also encounter customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, such customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier, which could impact our sales and the value of portions of our inventory. Unanticipated changes in our tax rates or in our assessment of the realizability of our deferred income tax assets or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our operating results and financial condition. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and, in the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations in which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries and states with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred income tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, as well as other factors. Our tax determinations are regularly subject to audit by tax authorities, and developments in those audits could adversely affect our income tax provision. Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes may be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions, which could affect our operating results and financial condition. If our net earnings do not remain at or above recent levels, or we are not able to predict with a reasonable degree of probability that they will continue, we may have to record a valuation allowance against our net deferred income tax assets. As of December 30, 2013, we had net deferred income tax assets of approximately $5.4 million. Based on our forecast for future taxable earnings, we believe we will utilize the deferred income tax assets in future periods. However, if our estimates of future earnings decline, we may have to increase our valuation allowance against our net deferred income tax assets, resulting in a higher income tax provision, which would reduce our earnings per share. Additionally, the ability to utilize deferred income tax assets is dependent upon the generation of taxable income in the specific tax jurisdictions that have deferred income tax assets. 21 Table of Contents If events or circumstances occur in our business that indicate that our goodwill and definite-lived intangibles may not be recoverable, we could have impairment charges that would negatively affect our earnings. As of December 30, 2013, our consolidated balance sheet reflected $39.8 million of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. We periodically evaluate whether events and circumstances have occurred, such that the potential for reduced expectations for future cash flows coupled with further decline in the market price of our stock and market capitalization may indicate that the remaining balance of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may not be recoverable. If factors indicate that assets are impaired, we would be required to reduce the carrying value of our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets, which could harm our results during the periods in which such a reduction is recognized. Our goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets may increase in future periods if we consummate other acquisitions. Amortization or impairment of these additional intangibles would, in turn, reduce our earnings. Damage to our manufacturing facilities due to fire, natural disaster, or other events could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The destruction or closure of any of our facilities for a significant period of time as a result of fire, explosion, blizzard, act of war or terrorism, flood, tornado, earthquake, lightning, other natural disasters, required maintenance or other events could harm us financially, increasing our costs of doing business and limiting our ability to deliver our manufacturing services on a timely basis. Our insurance coverage with respect to damages to our facilities or our customers’ products caused by natural disasters is limited and is subject to deductibles and coverage limits. Such coverage may not be adequate or continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates and terms. In the event one or more of our facilities is closed on a temporary or permanent basis as a result of a natural disaster, required maintenance or other event, our operations could be significantly disrupted. Such events could delay or prevent product manufacturing and shipment for the time required to transfer production or repair, rebuild or replace the affected manufacturing facilities. This time frame could be lengthy and result in significant expenses for repair and related costs. While we have in place disaster recovery plans, there can be no assurance that such plans will be sufficient to allow our operations to continue in the event of every natural or man-made disaster, pandemic, required repair or other extraordinary event. Any extended inability to continue our operations at unaffected facilities following such an event would reduce our revenue and potentially damage our reputation as a reliable supplier. Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business, and we may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations. As of December 30, 2013, we had total indebtedness of approximately $628.9 million, which represented approximately 47% of our total capitalization. We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including additional borrowings under our revolving credit facility. Our substantial indebtedness and the fact that a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations must be used to make principal and interest payments on this indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the availability of our cash flow for working capital, capital investments and other business activities and purposes; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, which would place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that may have less debt; • limiting, by the financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, our ability to borrow additional funds; and 22 Table of Contents • having a material adverse effect on our business if we fail to comply with the covenants in our debt agreements, because such failure could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in all or a substantial amount of our indebtedness becoming immediately due and payable. Our ability to incur significant future indebtedness, whether to finance capital expenditures, potential acquisitions or for general corporate purposes, will depend on our ability to generate cash. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory, and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or if future borrowings are not available to us under our secured credit facilities in amounts sufficient to enable us to fund our liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot make scheduled principal and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures, or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, or to effect any other of these actions, our business may be harmed. Our results may be negatively affected by changing interest rates. We are subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates based on our financing activities. As of December 30, 2013, $370.0 million, or 59%, of our outstanding indebtedness bore interest at a floating rate of LIBOR plus an applicable interest margin. Lines of credit we maintain at banks in mainland China used for working capital and capital investment for our mainland China facilities have interest rates tied to either LIBOR or People’s Bank of China rates with a margin adjustment. There can be no assurances that interest rates will not significantly change. Should LIBOR increase substantially in the future for any reason, our interest payments on our variable interest rate debt would also increase, lowering our net income. For additional information, see “Item 7A — Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” If we are unable to respond to rapid technological change and process development, we may not be able to compete effectively. The market for our manufacturing services is characterized by rapidly changing technology and continual implementation of new production processes. The future success of our business will depend in large part upon our ability to maintain and enhance our technological capabilities, to manufacture products that meet changing customer needs, and to successfully anticipate or respond to technological changes on a cost-effective and timely basis. We expect that the investment necessary to maintain our technological position will increase as customers make demands for products and services requiring more advanced technology on a quicker turnaround basis. For example, in 2013 we have made and expect to make significant capital expenditures to expand our HDI and other advanced manufacturing capabilities. We may not be able to raise additional funds in order to respond to technological changes as quickly as our competitors. In addition, the PCB industry could encounter competition from new or revised manufacturing and production technologies that render existing manufacturing and production technology less competitive or obsolete. We may not respond effectively to the technological requirements of the changing market. If we need new technologies and equipment to remain competitive, the development, acquisition, and implementation of those technologies and equipment may require us to make significant capital investments. We are subject to the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual for our facility security clearance, which is a prerequisite to our ability to perform on classified contracts for the U.S. government. A facility security clearance is required in order to be awarded and perform on classified contracts for the DoD and certain other agencies of the U.S. government. As a cleared entity, we must comply with the requirements of the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual, or NISPOM, and any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations. Further, due to the fact that a significant portion of our voting equity is owned by a non-U.S. entity, we are required to be governed by and operate in accordance with the terms and requirements of the Special Security Agreement, or the SSA, described in “Item 1 — Business — National Security Matters.” The terms of the SSA have been previously disclosed in our SEC filings. 23 Table of Contents If we were to violate the terms and requirements of the SSA, the NISPOM, or any other applicable U.S. government industrial security regulations (which may apply to us under the terms of classified contracts), we could lose our security clearance. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our security clearance. If for some reason our security clearance is invalidated or terminated, we may not be able to continue to perform on classified contracts and would not be able to enter into new classified contracts, which could adversely affect our revenues. The prominence of EMS companies as our customers could reduce our gross margins, potential sales, and customers. Sales to EMS companies represented approximately 38%, 40% and 42% of our net sales for the years ended December 30, 2013, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Sales to EMS providers include sales directed by OEMs as well as orders placed with us at the EMS providers’ discretion. EMS providers source on a global basis to a greater extent than OEMs. The growth of EMS providers increases the purchasing power of such providers and could result in increased price competition or the loss of existing OEM customers. In addition, some EMS providers, including some of our customers, have the ability to directly manufacture PCBs and create backplane assemblies. If a significant number of our other EMS customers were to acquire these abilities, our customer base might shrink, and our sales might decline substantially. Moreover, if any of our OEM customers outsource the production of PCBs and creation of backplane assemblies to these EMS providers, our business, results of operations, and financial condition may be harmed. The former owners of our Asia Pacific operating segment own a substantial percentage of our common stock. We issued a large amount of stock to the principal owners of Meadville in connection with our acquisition of our Asia Pacific operating segment. As of December 30, 2013, approximately 33% of our common stock was beneficially owned by Su Sih (BVI) Limited, a company organized under the laws of the British Virgin Islands (referred to as Su Sih). Su Sih is a holding company wholly owned by Mr. Tang Hsiang Chien, a citizen of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People’s Republic of China and the father of our director Mr. Tang Chung Yen, Tom. Su Sih and certain affiliates of Mr. Tang Hsiang Chien, if any, who are Principal Shareholders (as defined in the Shareholders Agreement dated April 9, 2010 as amended on September 14, 2012), are entitled to jointly nominate one individual to our board of directors and a majority of the members of the board of directors of the Asia Pacific operating segment. If our Principal Shareholders — or any significant shareholder — were to sell a large number of shares of our common stock, the market price of our common stock could significantly decline. In addition, our relationship with our principal lenders might be negatively impacted. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be negatively affected. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, growth in the scope and complexity of our operations. This growth may strain our managerial, financial, manufacturing, and other resources. In order to manage our growth, we may be required to continue to implement additional operating and financial controls and hire and train additional personnel. There can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, and failure to do so could jeopardize our expansion plans and seriously harm our operations. In addition, growth in our capacity could result in reduced capacity utilization and a corresponding decrease in gross margins. Our international sales are subject to laws relating to trade, export controls and foreign corrupt practices, the violation of which could adversely affect our operations. We are required to comply with all applicable domestic and foreign export control laws, including the International Traffic in Arms Regulations, or ITAR, and the Export Administration Regulations, or EAR. Some items manufactured by us are controlled for export by the United States Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security under the EAR. In addition, we are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and international counterparts that bar bribes or unreasonable gifts for foreign governments and officials. Violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in significant sanctions, including large monetary penalties and suspension or debarment from participation in future government contracts, which could reduce our future revenue and net income. 24 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with the requirements of environmental laws could result in litigation, fines, revocation of permits necessary to our manufacturing processes, or debarment from our participation in federal government contracts. Our operations are regulated under a number of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and safety laws and regulations that govern, among other things, the discharge of hazardous materials into the air and water, as well as the handling, storage, and disposal of such materials. These laws and regulations include the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Improvement Act, as well as analogous state, local, and foreign laws. Compliance with these environmental laws is a major consideration for us because our manufacturing processes use and generate materials classified as hazardous. Because we use hazardous materials and generate hazardous wastes in our manufacturing processes, we may be subject to potential financial liability for costs associated with the investigation and remediation of our own sites, or sites at which we have arranged for the disposal of hazardous wastes, if such sites become contaminated. Even if we fully comply with applicable environmental laws and are not directly at fault for the contamination, we may still be liable. The wastes we generate include spent ammoniacal and cupric etching solutions, metal stripping solutions, waste acid solutions, waste alkaline cleaners, waste oil, and waste waters that contain heavy metals such as copper, tin, lead, nickel, gold, silver, cyanide, and fluoride, and both filter cake and spent ion exchange resins from equipment used for on-site waste treatment. Any material violations of environmental laws or failure to maintain required environmental permits could subject us to fines, penalties, and other sanctions, including the revocation of our effluent discharge permits, which could require us to cease or limit production at one or more of our facilities, and harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Even if we ultimately prevail, environmental lawsuits against us would be time consuming and costly to defend. Environmental laws also could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violation. We operate in environmentally sensitive locations, and we are subject to potentially conflicting and changing regulatory agendas of political, business, and environmental groups. Changes or restrictions on discharge limits, emissions levels, material storage, handling, or disposal might require a high level of unplanned capital investment or global relocation. It is possible that environmental compliance costs and penalties from new or existing regulations may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are increasingly required to certify compliance with various material content restrictions in our products based on laws of various jurisdictions or territories such as the Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) directives in the European Union and China’s RoHS legislation. New York City has adopted identical RoHS restrictions, and many U.S. states are considering similar rules and legislation. In addition, we must also certify as to the non-applicability to the EU’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment directive for certain products that we manufacture. The REACH directive requires adoption of Substances of Very High Concern (SVHCs) periodically. We must survey our supply chain and certify to the non-presence or presence of SVHCs to our customers. As with other types of product certifications that we routinely provide, we may incur liability and pay damages if our products do not conform to our certifications. We are also subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the People’s Republic of China, or PRC, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the air and water and establish standards for the treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes. The manufacturing of our products generates gaseous chemical wastes, liquid wastes, waste water and other industrial wastes from various stages of the manufacturing process. Production sites in China are subject to regulation and periodic monitoring by the relevant environmental protection authorities. Environmental claims or the failure to comply with current or future regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, suspension of production, or cessation of operations. The process to manufacture PCBs requires adherence to city, county, state, federal and foreign environmental regulations regarding the storage, use, handling and disposal of chemicals, solid wastes and other 25 Table of Contents hazardous materials as well as compliance with air quality standards. We believe that our facilities in the United States comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations. In China, governmental authorities are taking various steps to tighten the rules and regulations governing environmental issues. An update to Chinese environmental law was issued in late 2012, but allows for an interim period in which foreign entities may adjust to the new regulatory regime and come into full compliance with the new laws. Our plants in China are not yet in full compliance with the current environmental regulations as updated in late 2012. We do not anticipate any immediate risk of government fines or temporary closure of Chinese plants. We have established and enacted an investment plan to address the regulatory changes in order to come into full compliance during the interim period. There can be no assurance that violations will not occur in the future. Employee theft or fraud could result in loss. Certain of our employees have access to, or signature authority with respect to, bank accounts or other company assets, which could expose us to fraud or theft. In addition, certain employees have access to key IT infrastructure and to customer and other information that is commercially valuable. Should any employee, for any reason, compromise our IT systems, or misappropriate customer or other information, we could incur losses, including losses relating to claims by our customers against us, the willingness of customers to do business with us may be damaged and, in the case of our defense business, we could be debarred from future participation in government programs. Any such losses may not be fully covered by insurance. Because we sell on a purchase order basis, we are subject to uncertainties and variability in demand by our customers that could decrease revenues and harm our operating results. Although we have long-term contracts with many customers, those contracts generally do not contain volume commitments. We generally sell to customers on a purchase order basis. Our quick-turn orders are subject to particularly short lead times. Consequently, our sales are subject to short-term variability in demand by our customers. Customers submitting purchase orders may cancel, reduce, or delay their orders for a variety of reasons. The level and timing of orders placed by our customers may vary due to: • customer attempts to manage inventory; • changes in customers’ manufacturing strategies, such as a decision by a customer to either diversify or consolidate the number of PCB manufacturers or backplane assembly service providers used or to manufacture or assemble its own products internally; • variation in demand for our customers’ products; and • changes in new product introductions. We have periodically experienced terminations, reductions, and delays in our customers’ orders. Further terminations, reductions, or delays in our customers’ orders could harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them that have restrictive terms and conditions. These agreements typically include provisions that increase our financial exposure, which could result in significant costs to us. Increasingly, our larger customers are requesting that we enter into supply agreements with them. These agreements typically do not include volume commitments, but do include provisions that generally serve to increase our exposure for product liability and limited sales returns, which could result in higher costs to us as a result of such claims. In addition, these agreements typically contain provisions that seek to limit our operational and pricing flexibility and extend payment terms, which can adversely impact our cash flow and results of operations. 26 Table of Contents Our business has benefited from OEMs deciding to outsource their PCB manufacturing and backplane assembly needs to us. If OEMs choose to provide these services in-house or select other providers, our business could suffer. Our future revenue growth partially depends on new outsourcing opportunities from OEMs. Current and prospective customers continuously evaluate our performance against other providers. They also evaluate the potential benefits of manufacturing their products themselves. To the extent that outsourcing opportunities are not available either due to OEM decisions to produce these products themselves or to use other providers, our financial results and future growth could be adversely affected. Consolidation among our customers could adversely affect our business. Recently, some of our large customers have consolidated, and further consolidation of customers may occur. Depending on which organization becomes the controller of the supply chain function following the consolidation, we may not be retained as a preferred or approved supplier. In addition, product duplication could result in the termination of a product line that we currently support. While there is potential for increasing our position with the combined customer, there does exist the potential for decreased revenue if we are not retained as a continuing supplier. We also face the risk of increased pricing pressure from the combined customer because of its increased market share. We are exposed to the credit risk of some of our customers and to credit exposures in weakened markets. Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with standard industry payment terms. We monitor individual customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful accounts. During periods of economic downturn in the electronics industry and the global economy, our exposure to credit risks from our customers increases. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the associated risks, such programs may not be effective in reducing our credit risks. Our 10 largest OEM customers accounted for approximately 54%, 47% and 46% of our net sales for the years ended December 30, 2013, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Additionally, our OEM customers often direct a significant portion of their purchases through a relatively limited number of EMS companies. Sales to EMS companies represented approximately 38%, 40% and 42% of our net sales for the years ended December 30, 2013, December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. Our contractual relationship is often with the EMS companies, who are obligated to pay us for our products. Because we expect our OEM customers to continue to direct our sales to EMS companies, we expect to continue to be subject to this credit risk with a limited number of EMS customers. If one or more of our significant customers were to become insolvent or were otherwise unable to pay us, our results of operations would be harmed. We rely on suppliers for the timely delivery of raw materials and components used in manufacturing our PCBs and backplane assemblies. If a raw material supplier fails to satisfy our product quality standards, it could harm our customer relationships. Although we have preferred suppliers for most of our raw materials, the materials we use are generally readily available in the open market, and numerous other potential suppliers exist. The components for backplane assemblies in some cases have limited or sole sources of supply. Consolidations and restructuring in our supplier base may result in adverse materials pricing due to reduction in competition among our suppliers. Furthermore, if a raw material or component supplier fails to satisfy our product quality standards, including standards relating to “conflict metals” (discussed further below), it could harm our customer relationships. Suppliers may from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies, or increase prices, due to capacity constraints or other factors, which could harm our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis. We may need additional capital in the future to fund investments in our operations, refinance our indebtedness and to maintain and grow our business, and such capital may not be available on acceptable terms, or at all. Our business is capital-intensive, and our ability to increase revenue, profit, and cash flow depends upon continued capital spending. If we are unable to fund our capital requirements as currently planned, however, it 27 Table of Contents would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. If we do not achieve our expected operating results, we would need to reallocate our sources and uses of operating cash flows. This may include borrowing additional funds to service debt payments, which may impair our ability to make investments in our business. Looking ahead at long-term needs, we may need to raise additional funds for a number of purposes, including: • to fund capital equipment purchases to increase production capacity, expand our technological capabilities and replace aging equipment; • to refinance our existing indebtedness; • to fund our operations beyond 2014; • to fund working capital requirements for future growth that we may experience; • to enhance or expand the range of services we offer; • to increase our sales and marketing activities; or • to respond to competitive pressures or perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. Should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our current debt instruments. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity, our equity holders would suffer dilution. There can be no assurance that additional capital would be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms, or at all. If such funds are not available when required or on acceptable terms, our business and financial results could suffer. Our Asia Pacific operations could be adversely affected by a shortage of utilities or a discontinuation of priority supply status offered for such utilities. The manufacturing of PCBs requires significant quantities of electricity and water. Our Asia Pacific operations have historically purchased substantially all of the electrical power for their manufacturing plants in China from local power plants. Because China’s economy has recently been in a state of growth, the strain on the nation’s power plants is increasing, which has led to continuing power outages in various parts of the country. There may be times when our operations in China may be unable to obtain adequate sources of electricity to meet production requirements. Additionally, we would not likely maintain any back-up power generation facilities for our operations, so if we were to lose power at any of our facilities, we would be required to cease operations until power was restored. Any stoppage of power could adversely affect our ability to meet our customers’ orders in a timely manner, thus potentially resulting in a loss of business and increased costs of manufacturing. In addition, the sudden cessation of power supply could damage our equipment, resulting in the need for costly repairs or maintenance as well as damage to products in production, resulting in an increase in scrapped products. Similarly, the sudden cessation of the water supply to Chinese facilities could adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders in a timely manner, potentially resulting in a loss of business and under-utilization of capacity. Various regions in China have in the past experienced shortages of both electricity and water and unexpected interruptions of power supply. From time to time, the Chinese government rations electrical power, which can lead to unscheduled production interruptions in our manufacturing facilities. There can be no assurance that our required utilities would not in the future experience material interruptions in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition strategy involves numerous risks. As part of our business strategy, we expect that we will continue to grow by pursuing acquisitions of businesses, technologies, assets, or product lines that complement or expand our business. Risks related to an acquisition may include: • the potential inability to successfully integrate acquired operations and businesses or to realize anticipated synergies, economies of scale, or other expected value; • diversion of management’s attention from normal daily operations of our existing business to focus on integration of the newly acquired business; 28 Table of Contents • unforeseen expenses associated with the integration of the newly acquired business; • difficulties in managing production and coordinating operations at new sites; • the potential loss of key employees of acquired operations; • the potential inability to retain existing customers of acquired companies when we desire to do so; • insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; • the potential decrease in overall gross margins associated with acquiring a business with a different product mix; • the inability to identify certain unrecorded liabilities; • the potential need to restructure, modify, or terminate customer relationships of the acquired company; • an increased concentration of business from existing or new customers; and • the potential inability to identify assets best suited to our business plan. Acquisitions may cause us to: • enter lines of business and/or markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; • issue debt and be required to abide by stringent loan covenants; • assume liabilities; record goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets that will be subject to impairment testing and potential periodic impairment charges; • become subject to litigation and environmental issues, which include product material content certifications; • incur unanticipated costs; • incur large and immediate write-offs; • issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders’ percentage ownership; and • incur substantial transaction-related costs, whether or not a proposed acquisition is consummated. Acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, and no assurance can be given that our recent or future acquisitions will be successful and will not harm our business, operating results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate acquisitions we make could harm our business and operating results in a material way. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed products, product enhancements may not be made in a timely fashion. In addition, unforeseen issues might arise with respect to such products after the acquisition. Products we manufacture may contain design or manufacturing defects, which could result in reduced demand for our services and liability claims against us. We manufacture products to our customers’ specifications, which are highly complex and may contain design or manufacturing errors or failures, despite our quality control and quality assurance efforts. Defects in the products we manufacture, whether caused by a design, manufacturing, or materials failure or error, may result in delayed shipments, customer dissatisfaction, a reduction or cancellation of purchase orders, or liability claims against us. If these defects occur either in large quantities or too frequently, our business reputation may be impaired. Our sales mix has shifted towards standard delivery time products, which have larger production runs, thereby increasing our exposure to these types of defects. Since our products are used in products that are integral to our customers’ businesses, errors, defects, or other performance problems could result in financial or other damages to our customers beyond the cost of the PCB, for which we may be liable. Although our invoices and sales arrangements generally contain provisions designed to limit our exposure to product liability and related claims, existing or future laws or unfavorable judicial decisions could negate these limitation of liability provisions. Product liability litigation against us, even if it were unsuccessful, would be time consuming and costly to defend. Although we maintain technology errors and omissions insurance, we cannot assure investors that we will continue to be able to purchase such insurance coverage in the future on terms that are satisfactory to us, if at all. 29 Table of Contents Outages, computer viruses, break-ins and similar events could disrupt our operations, and breaches of our security systems may cause us to incur significant legal and financial exposure. We rely on information technology networks and systems, some of which are owned and operated by third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information. In particular, we depend on our information technology infrastructure for a variety of functions, including worldwide financial reporting, inventory management, procurement, invoicing and email communications. Any of these systems may be susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks and similar events. Despite the implementation of network security measures, our systems and those of third parties on which we rely may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. If we or our vendors are unable to prevent such outages and breaches, our operations could be disrupted. If unauthorized parties gain access to our information systems or such information is used in an unauthorized manner, misdirected, lost or stolen during transmission, any theft or misuse of such information could result in, among other things, unfavorable publicity, governmental inquiry and oversight, difficulty in marketing our services, allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations, litigation by affected parties and possible financial obligations for damages related to the theft or misuse of such information, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. Our business may suffer if any of our key senior executives discontinues employment with us or if we are unable to recruit and retain highly skilled engineering and sales staff. Our future success depends to a large extent on the services of our key managerial employees. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management in the future. In 2013, we had three planned executive transitions. However, we can make no assurances that future changes in executive management will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business also depends on our continuing ability to recruit, train, and retain highly qualified employees, particularly engineering and sales and marketing personnel. The competition for these employees is intense, and the loss of these employees could harm our business. Further, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies depends in part on our ability to retain key management and existing employees at the time of the acquisition. Our manufacturing processes depend on the collective industry experience of our employees. If a significant number of these employees were to leave us, it could limit our ability to compete effectively and could harm our financial results. We have limited patent or trade secret protection for our manufacturing processes. We rely on the collective experience of our employees involved in our manufacturing processes to ensure we continuously evaluate and adopt new technologies in our industry. Although we are not dependent on any one employee or a small number of employees, if a significant number of our employees involved in our manufacturing processes were to leave our employment, and we were not able to replace these people with new employees with comparable experience, our manufacturing processes might suffer as we might be unable to keep up with innovations in the industry. As a result, we may lose our ability to continue to compete effectively. We may be exposed to intellectual property infringement claims by third parties that could be costly to defend, could divert management’s attention and resources, and if successful, could result in liability. We rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, contractual provisions, and other measures to protect our proprietary information. All of these measures afford only limited protection. These measures may be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged, and others may develop technologies or processes that are similar or superior to our technology. We may not have the controls and procedures in place that are needed to adequately protect proprietary information. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy our products or obtain or use information that we regard as proprietary, which could adversely impact our revenues and financial condition. Furthermore, there is a risk that we may infringe on the intellectual property rights of others. As is the case with many other companies in the PCB industry, we from time to time receive communications from third parties 30 Table of Contents asserting patent rights to our products and enter into discussions with such third parties. Irrespective of the validity or the successful assertion of such claims, we could incur costs in either defending or settling any intellectual property disputes alleging infringement. If any claims are brought against the customers for such infringement, whether or not these have merit, we could be required to expend significant resources in defending such claims. In the event we are subject to any infringement claims, we may be required to spend a significant amount of money to develop non-infringing alternatives or obtain licenses. We may not be successful in developing such alternatives or in obtaining such licenses on reasonable terms or at all, which could disrupt the production processes, damage our reputation, and affect our revenues and financial condition. Our business and operations could be adversely impacted by climate change initiatives. Our manufacturing processes require that we purchase significant quantities of energy from third parties, which results in the generation of greenhouse gases, either directly on-site or indirectly at electric utilities. Both domestic and international legislation to address climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions could create increases in energy costs and price volatility. Considerable international attention is now focused on development of an international policy framework to guide international action to address climate change. Proposed and existing legislative efforts to control or limit greenhouse gas emissions could affect our energy sources and supply choices as well as increase the cost of energy and raw materials derived from sources that generate greenhouse gas emissions. The economies of the countries in which we operate may be adversely affected by a recurrence of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or an outbreak of other epidemics such as H1N1 or avian flu. Past occurrences of epidemics or pandemics, depending on their scale of occurrence, have caused different degrees of damage to the national and local economies in the affected countries. A recurrence of SARS or an outbreak of any other epidemics or pandemics, such as the H1N1 influenza or avian flu, especially in the areas where we have operations, or where we may have operations in the future, may result in quarantines, temporary closures of offices and manufacturing facilities, travel restrictions, or the temporary or permanent loss of key personnel. The perception that an outbreak of contagious disease may occur again and may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of affected countries. Any of the above may cause material disruptions to our operations, which in turn may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to risks of currency fluctuations. A portion of our cash and other current assets is held in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. As of December 30, 2013, we had an aggregate of approximately $212.6 million in current assets denominated in Chinese RMB and the Hong Kong Dollar (HKD). Changes in exchange rates among other currencies and the U.S. dollar will affect the value of these assets as translated to U.S. dollars in our balance sheet. To the extent that we ultimately decide to repatriate some portion of these funds to the United States, the actual value transferred could be impacted by movements in exchange rates. Any such type of movement could negatively impact the amount of cash available to fund operations or to repay debt. Significant inflation or disproportionate changes in foreign exchange rates could occur as a result of general economic conditions, acts of war or terrorism, changes in governmental monetary or tax policy, or changes in local interest rates. The impact of future exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. Dollar and the RMB and the U.S. Dollar and the HKD cannot be predicted. To the extent that we may have outstanding indebtedness denominated in the RMB or in the HKD, the appreciation of the RMB and the HKD against the U.S. Dollar will have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations (including the cost of servicing, and the value in our balance sheet of, the RMB and HKD-denominated indebtedness). Further, China’s government imposes controls over the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies, which subjects us to further currency exchange risk. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 31 Table of Contents 