Item 1A. RISK FACTORS BUSINESS RISKS We may not be able to obtain sufficient raw materials to satisfy our production requirements and any decline in the amount or quality of raw materials could reduce our sales and negatively affect our financial prospects. Our business depends on obtaining a reliable supply of various agricultural products, including fresh produce, red meat, fish, eggs, rice, flour and chestnuts. We self-supplied less than 16.45% of our total raw material needs in 2007 (by value). In 2007, we procured approximately 39,630 metric tons of chestnuts and approximately 28.034 metric tons of vegetables and other raw materials from a number of third party suppliers and produced approximately 265 metric tons of chestnuts and approximately 2,752 metric tons of vegetables and other raw materials from our own agricultural operations. We may have to increase the number of our suppliers of raw materials and expand our own agricultural operations in the future to meet growing production demands. We may not be able to locate new suppliers who could provide us with sufficient materials to meet our needs and we may not be able to expand our own agricultural operations in a timely manner to satisfy our needs. Any i nterruptions to or decline in the amount or quality of our raw materials supply could materially disrupt our production and adversely affect our business and financial condition and financial prospects. 18 The average price we paid for our raw materials experienced significant fluctuation during the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007. These price fluctuations could result in fluctuations in our profit margins and could materially adversely affect our financial condition. The average prices we paid for chestnuts in 2005, 2006 and 2007 were approximately $884 per metric ton, $713 per metric ton and $787 per metric ton respectively, excluding any value added tax assessed on the purchased chestnuts. The prices that we pay for our raw materials may not be stable in the future. Price changes may result in unexpected increases in production costs, and we may be unable to increase the prices of our products to offset these increased costs and therefore may suffer a reduction to our profit margins. We do not currently hedge against changes in our raw material prices. If the costs of raw materials or other costs of production and distribution of our products increase further, and we are unable to entirely offset these increases by raising the prices of our products, our profit margins and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our sales and reputation may be affected by product liability claims, litigation, product recalls, or adverse publicity in relation to our products. The sale of products for human consumption involves an inherent risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product liability claims, litigation, or product recalls, if our products cause injury, or become adulterated or misbranded. Our products are subject to product tampering, and to contamination risks, such as mold, bacteria, insects, and other pests, shell fragments and off-flavor contamination during the various stages of the procurement, production, transportation and storage processes. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or become tainted in any of these respects and we were unable to detect this, our products could be subject to product liability claims or product recalls. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of the crop or that the crop has been contaminated by other agents. We have never had a product recall in the past but we have experienced product liability claims that were made by our customers. On average, we experience and expect to continue to experience product liability claims in the amount of approximately $30,000 to $40,000 per year. However, we have no control over the amount of claims made in any year and larger claims of product defect or product liability may be made in the future. We would be liable for the full amount of any damages awarded against us in any product liability claim. As the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development, business insurance is not readily available in China. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by insurance in the United States, such as product liability and general liability insurance, we would incur significant expenses in both defending any action and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment. Product liability claims and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our business goodwill and reputation. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. We may be unable to manage future rapid growth. We have grown rapidly over the last few years. Our sales increased by 77% from $27,735,833 in 2004 to $49,560,957 in 2006. The number of product types we sold increased from approximately 100 in 2004 to approximately 192 in early 2007. We intend to continue to expand the volume and variety of products we offer, as well as the geographical scope of our sales and production facilities. Our business growth could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Our ability to manage future growth will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not adequate to support our future growth. Failure to effectively manage our expansion may lead to increased costs, a decline in sales and reduced profitability. 19 Our expansion strategy may not prove successful and could adversely affect our existing business. Our growth strategy includes the expansion of our manufacturing operations including new production lines and agricultural operations. In the past few years, we have expanded rapidly. In 2003, Luotian Lorain set up one production line with a production of 600 metric tons per year, and in 2004, a second production line with a production of 9,912 metric tons per year. In 2003, Beijing Lorain set up one production line with a production of 9,912 metric tons per year, and in 2004, three additional production lines with a production of 1,425 metric tons per year per line. In both 2005 and 2006, Shandong Lorain established Chestnut planting bases. Beijing Lorain established a Chestnut planting base in 2005, a sticky corn and sweet corn planting base in 2004 and pumpkin planting base in 2005. In 2008, we plan to construct another new production facility addition at a new facility in Luotian county, China with three production lines for the prod uction of our convenience food products and deep freezingat an approximate cost of $17,525,000. We also plan to expand our agricultural operations in 2008, including development of an 824 acre Korean-type chestnut farm, located in China at an approximate cost of $2 million. We also plan to expand our sales in China and internationally. We will need to engage in various forms of promotional and marketing activities in order to develop branding of our products and increase our market share in new and existing markets. We plan to commence a branding and advertising strategy in 2008. We are planning to expend approximately US$1 million for marketing activities that focus mainly on China from the second quarter of 2008. The implementation of this strategy may involve large transactions and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if any of our growth strategies incur problems of which we are not presently aware. We may have difficulty in successfully expanding the sale of our products in areas that have not traditionally experienced high levels chestnut consumption due to lack of chestnut familiarity. If we fail to generate sufficient sales in new markets or increase our sales in existing markets, we may not be able to recover the production, distribution, promotional and marketing expenses, as well as administrative costs, we have incurred in developing such markets. The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our profitability. We may try to grow through acquisitions in the future. Any proposed acquisition could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions, in general, entail many risks, including risks relating to the failed integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired organizations. We may be unable to integrate successfully businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally. If the international market does not grow as we expect, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We conduct a substantial amount of business with overseas distributors primarily from Japan, Korea, countries in Asia and western countries. During the year ended 2005, 2006, and 2007, sales outside China accounted for 44%, 52%, and 39.08% of our total sales, respectively. Our international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including: chestnut products may not be widely recognized internationally, especially in western countries; local economic and political conditions, including disruptions in trading markets; restrictive foreign governmental actions, including restrictions on transfers of funds and trade; protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs duties and tariffs; currency exchange rate fluctuations; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters may limit the imported food products; and unexpected incidents related to food safety. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. As a result, our products and our revenues would be decreased and we may need to adjust our market strategy. 20 We mainly rely on distributors to sell our products. Any delays in delivery or poor handling by distributors and third-party transport operators may affect our sales and damage our reputation. In 2007, we sold over 93% of our products through over 715 distributors. We rely on these distributors for the distribution of our products. A significant portion of our revenues historically have been derived from a limited number of domestic supermarkets and international distributors, particularly in our chestnut processing business. The sales to our five largest customers and overseas retailers accounted for approximately 37%, 43%, and 30.76% of our total revenue in 2005, 2006 and 2007 respectively. The loss of any of these customers and international distributors or a material decrease in purchases could result in decreased sales and adversely impact our revenues. Additionally, the distribution service provided by these distributors could be suspended and could cause interruption to the supply of our products to overseas retailers in the case of unforeseen events. Delivery disruptions may occur for various reasons beyond our control, including poor handling by distributors or third party transport operators, transportation bottlenecks, natural disasters and labor strikes, and could lead to delayed or lost deliveries. Poor handling by distributors and third-party transport operators could also result in damage to our products. If our products are not delivered to retailers on time, or are delivered damaged, or our products are contaminated during the stage of transportation or storage, we would be liable for the compensation, and we could lose business and our reputation could be harmed. The development and introduction of new products is key to our expansion strategy. Failure to do so may cause us to lose our competitiveness in the food industry and may cause our profits to decline. If we are unable to gain market acceptance or significant market share for the new products we introduce, then we will incur development, production and marketing costs which we would not be able to recover. We constantly introduce new packaging and new flavors for our products. We produced 192 products in 2007. We have introduced 15 new products in 2006, and we have introduced 20 new products in 2007. We plan to introduce about 25 products in 2008. The success of the new products we introduce depends on our ability to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. We intend to introduce new product lines including different flavors, different sizes and packaging. We may not be able to gain market acceptance or significant market share for our new products. Consumer preferences change, and any new products that we introduce may fail to meet the particular tastes or requirements of c onsumers, or may be unable to replace their existing preferences. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these particular tastes or changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause us to be unable to recover our development, production and marketing costs, thereby leading to a decline in our profitability. In addition, we only have regulatory approvals for products that are currently in production at our facilities. If we wish to produce other products, we would have to obtain additional regulatory approvals. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval to produce a particular product in a timely manner, if at all, then we would not be able to generate revenues to offset any expenses related to R&D to produce such product and any acquisitions of equipment to produce such product. We do not believe that any such expenses related to any particular product is material to the company as a whole. In addition, we do not believe that our inability to produce any particular product is material to the business as a whole because we can replace such product with other products. However, if we were unable to obtain regulatory approvals to produce a broad class of products or several products at one time, our ability to generate revenues my be harmed, which could materially and adversely effect our operations and financial condition. 21 We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our research and development, operations and revenue. The Lorain Group Companies were founded in 1995 by Mr. Si Chen, our chairman and chief executive officer. Since then, Mr. Chen and our senior management team have developed us into a leading food production company. Mr. Chen, together with other senior management, has been the key driver of our strategy and has been fundamental to our achievements to date. The successful management of our business is, to a considerable extent, dependent on the services of Mr. Chen and other senior management. The loss of the services of any key management employee or failure to recruit a suitable or comparable replacement could have a significant impact upon our ability to manage our business effectively and our business and future growth may be adversely affected. We compete for qualified personnel with other food processing companies, food retailers and research institutions. Intense competition for these personnel could cause our compensation costs to increase significantly, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our future success and ability to grow our business will depend in part on the continued service of these individuals and our ability to identify, hire and retain additional qualified personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, we may be unable to meet our business and financial goals. We face increasing competition from both domestic and foreign companies, which may affect our market share and profit margins. The food industry in China is fragmented. Our ability to compete against other national and international enterprises is, to a significant extent, dependent on our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors by providing large volumes and high quality products at reasonable prices that appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences. Some of our competitors may have been in business longer than we have, may be better established in their markets. Our current or future competitors may provide products comparable or superior to those we provide or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. Increased competition may result in price reductions, higher raw materials prices, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profit margins. We may not be able to compete effectively against current and future competitors. We may be adversely affected by a change in consumer preferences, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Consumer tastes can change rapidly due to many factors, including shifting consumer preferences, and spending habits. A general decline in the consumption of our chestnuts products and other products could occur as a result of a change in consumer preferences, perceptions and spending habits at any time and future success will depend partly on our ability to anticipate or adapt to such changes and to offer, on a timely basis, new products that meet consumer preferences. Our failure to adapt our products offering to respond to such changes may result in reduced demand and lower prices for our products and a decline in the market share of our products. Any changes in consumer preferences could result in lower sales of our products, put pressure on pricing or lead to increased levels of selling and promotional expenses, resulting in a material adverse effect on our sales volumes, sales and profits. An increase in the cost of energy could affect our profitability. Recently, we have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher distribution, freight and other operating costs. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. 22 Our chestnut products and brand names may be subject to counterfeiting or imitation, which could impact upon our reputation and brand name as well as lead to higher administrative costs. While we sell our products both under our brand name and under private labels, we regard brand positioning as the core of our competitive strategy, and intend to position our "Lorain" and “Yimeng Lorain” brand to promote the consumption of green foods by our customers. We believe our advanced processing technology makes it difficult for illegal manufacturers to counterfeit our products. To date, we have experienced limited counterfeiting and imitation of our chestnut products, it is possible that counterfeiting or imitation of our products may occur in the future and that we may not be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could impact negatively upon our corporate and brand image, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause sickness, or injury to consumers. In addition, counterfeit or imitation products could result in a reduction in our market share, a loss of revenues or an increase in our administrative expenses in respect of detection or prosecution. We rely on an outside contractor to provide a majority of our labor. We hire Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company to provide employees to our production facilities. During normal production times Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company provides about 5 out of every 6 of our production line personnel. During times of peak production Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company usually provides the additional personnel needed to meet the additional production demands which increase the ratio of Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company employees to our employees above the 5 out of every 6 mark. Under our arrangement with Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company we pay their employees directly for services rendered to our Company and we pay Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company a fee for their services related to providing employees to our business. Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company pays for state pension contribution and social insurance for its employees. Should Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company be unable continue to provide the number of employees we need for our facilities our production could be disrupted. Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company could raise their service fees or terminate their relationship with us in the future which may result in increased production costs which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. REGULATORY RISKS Government regulation could increase our costs of production and increase our legal and regulatory expenditures. The food industry is subject to extensive regulations by Chinese government agencies. Among other things, these regulations govern the manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, exportation, distribution and labeling of our products. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities, and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits and could require us to change our methods of operations at costs that could be substantial. If the relevant regulatory authorities set standards with which we are unable to comply or which increase our production costs, our ability to sell products may be limited. Changes in the existing laws and regulations or additional or stricter laws and regulations on environmental protection in China may cause us to incur capital expenditures. We carry on our business in an industry that is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing and construction that may cause environmental waste to adopt effective measures to control and properly dispose of waste gases, waste water, industrial waste, dust and other environmental waste materials, as well as fee payments from producers discharging waste substances. Fines may be levied against producers causing pollution. If failure to comply with such laws or regulations results in environmental pollution, the administrative department for environmental protection can levy fines. If the circumstances of the breach are serious, it is at the discretion of the central government of the PRC including all governmental subdivisions to cease or close any operation failing to comply with such laws or regulations. The Chinese government may also change the existing laws or regulations or im pose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which we may be unable to pass on to our customers through higher prices for our products. 23 Changes in existing PRC food hygiene laws may cause us to incur additional costs to comply with the more stringent laws and regulations, which could have an adverse impact on our financial position. Manufacturers in food industry operating in China are subject to compliance with PRC food hygiene laws and regulations. These food hygiene laws require all enterprises engaged in the production of chestnut and other various vegetables and fruits to obtain a hygiene license for each of their production facilities. They also set out hygiene standards with respect to food and food additives, packaging and containers, information to be disclosed on packaging as well as hygiene requirements for food production and sites, facilities and equipment used for the transportation and sale of food. Failure to comply with PRC food hygiene laws may result in fines, suspension of operations, loss of hygiene licenses and, in more extreme cases, criminal proceedings against an enterprise and its management. While we are in compliance with current food hygiene laws, in the event that the PRC government increases the stringency of such laws, our production and distribution co sts may increase, and we may be unable to pass these additional costs on to our customers. FINANCIAL RISKS We are subject to credit risk in respect of account receivables. We offer credit terms of between 90 to 180 days to most of our international distributors and between 30 to 120 days for many of our domestic distributors. For each of the three years ended December 31, 2005, 2006 and 2007, our third party trade receivables outstanding were $7,992,923, $11,805,231 and $6,322,476, which accounted for 14.7%, 24.8%, and 6.384% of our total assets, respectively. Our third party trade receivables increased materially during year 2007 to $6,322,476 compared to $11,805,231 during 2006 due to increased sales. Should a significant number of our customers fail to settle the account receivables in full for any reasons, our financial conditions and profitability could be adversely affected? Our operations are cash intensive, and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain sufficient levels of working capital. We spent a significant amount of cash in our operations, principally to fund our raw material procurement. Our suppliers, in particular farmers of chestnuts, vegetables and fruits, and suppliers of packaging materials usually grant us a credit period. In turn, we require our customers and distributors to make payment either prior to or shortly after delivery, although we offer some of our long-standing customers credit terms. We generally fund a substantial portion of our working capital requirements out of cash flow generated from operations. If we fail to generate sufficient sales, or if we suffer decreasing sales to customers as a result of failing to offer credit terms, if our suppliers stop to offer us credit terms, or if we were to experience difficulties in collecting our accounts receivables, we may not have sufficient cash flow to fund our operating costs and our business could be adversely affected. Our borrowing levels and significant interest payment obligations could limit the funds we have available for various business purposes. We have relied mainly on a high level of short-term borrowings to fund a portion of our capital requirements, and may continue to do so in the future. As of December 31, 2007, we had total borrowings of $24,180,046. Our ratio of total indebtedness to total assets stood at 52.52% as at December 31, 2007. As of December 31, 2007, 93.88% of such borrowings were due within one year, primarily from our use of short-term loans from Chinese banks to satisfy our working capital needs. Historically, we have repaid a significant portion of such short-term loans by rolling over the loans on an annual basis. In addition, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay all of our borrowings upon maturity. Failure to roll over our short-term borrowings at maturity or to service our debt could result in the imposition of penalties, including increases in rates of interest that we pay on our debt and legal actions against us by our creditors, or even insolve ncy. We currently plan to finance or refinance US$40 million over the next 12 months. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to enter into any loan or refinancing agreements on terms favorable to the Company, if at all. We also have no current credit facilities or other lines of credit. If we are unable to complete any such financing or refinancing efforts, our net income may not be sufficient to satisfy our working capital and operating expansion needs in 2008 and our operations and financial condition may be negatively impacted. 24 The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment or other incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries enjoy certain special or preferential tax treatments regarding foreign enterprise income tax in accordance with the “Income Tax Law of the PRC for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises” and its implementing rules. Accordingly, they have been entitled to tax concessions whereby the profit for the first two financial years beginning with the first profit-making year (after setting off tax losses carried forward from prior years) is exempt from income tax in the PRC and the profit for each of the subsequent three financial years is taxed at 50% of the prevailing tax rates set by the relevant tax authorities. However, on March 16, 2007, the PRC’s National People’s Congress passed a new corporate income tax law, which was effective on January 1, 2008. This new corporate income tax unifies the corporate income tax rate, cost deduction and tax incentive policies for both domestic and foreign-invested enterprises. &nb sp;According to the new corporate income tax law, the applicable corporate income tax rate of our operating subsidiary will be moved up to a rate of 25% over a five-year grandfather period. We expect the measures to implement this grandfather period to be enacted by the PRC government in the coming months and we will make an assessment of what the impact of the new unified tax law is expected to be in the grandfather period. The discontinuation of any such special or preferential tax treatment or other incentives could have an adverse affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Under current PRC tax law, regulations and rulings, dividends from our operations in China paid to us (as a foreign legal person) are not currently subject to PRC income tax. If these distributions become subject to tax in the future, our net income would be adversely affected. RISKS RELATING TO OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE The concentration of ownership of our securities by our controlling stockholder who does not participate in the management of our business and who may have conflicting interests can result in stockholder votes that are not in our best interests or the best interests of our minority stockholders. Hisashi Akazawa is the record owner of approximately 65.43% of our outstanding voting securities, giving him a controlling interest in the Company. However, Mr. Akazawa is not an executive officer or director of the Company and is not a participant in any way in the day to day affairs of the Company. Mr. Akazawa may have little knowledge of the details of the Company’s operations and does not participate in the corporate governance of the Company. To the extent that Mr. Akazawa does participate as a stockholder in the governance of the Company's affairs, his interests may be conflicted since he is an affiliate of one of our largest customers and he may act in his best interests or in our customer’s best interest instead of our best interests. Additionally, Mr. Akazawa may act as if he has little or no economic interest in the Company in his role as stockholder since he has granted an option to our sole director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Ch en, allowing Mr. Chen to buy 90% of Mr. Akazawa's interest in the Company at a fixed price at a future time in accordance with the terms of an option agreement between the two parties. The result of this option agreement is that Mr. Akazawa has only limited economic benefit if our financial performance excels as he will have only limited benefit from any upward movement in our stock price since most of the stock that he currently owns is subject to the option in favor of Mr. Chen. We do not have any independent directors and may be unable to appoint any qualified independent directors. We currently do not have any independent directors. In fact, Mr., Chen is currently our sole director. We plan to appoint a number of independent directors which will constitute a majority of our board of directors before our common stock is listed on a national securities exchange, but we may not be able to identify independent directors qualified to be on our board that are willing to serve on our board. Due to the lack of independent directors we do not have independent oversight over our management and internal controls. Therefore, we are exposed to the risk that misstatements caused by errors or fraud in amounts that would be material in relation to financial statements or other disclosures or non-disclosures may occur and not be detected in a timely manner or at all. In the event there are deficiencies or weaknesses in our internal controls we may misreport our financial results or lose significant amounts due to the misstatements caused by errors and/or fraud. Investors may lose confidence in our company due to the misstatement or fraud or the value of our company may decline due to the financial losses from the misstatement or fraud. 25 We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and our ability to have those controls attested to by our independent auditors. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal controls over financial reporting in their annual reports, including Form 10-K. We are subject to this requirement commencing with our fiscal year ending December 31, 2007 and a report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition, SOX 404 requires the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to also attest to and report on the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, this annual report does not include an attestation report because under current law, we will not be subject to these requirements until our annual report for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the req uirements imposed thereby. There can be no assurance that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. In the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls, investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country, but the government could change these economic reforms or any of the legal systems at any time. This could either benefit or damage our operations and profitability. Some of the things that could have this effect are: Level of government involvement in the economy; Control of foreign exchange; Methods of allocating resources; Balance of payments position; International trade restrictions; and International conflict. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in many ways. For example, state-owned enterprises still constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy, and weak corporate governance traditions and a lack of flexible currency exchange policy continue to persist. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China and your legal protection could be limited. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. The overall effect of legislation enacted over the past 20 years has been to enhance the protections afforded to foreign invested enterprises in China. However, these laws, regulations and legal requirements are relatively recent and are evolving rapidly, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign invested enterprises to hold licenses and permits such as requisite business licenses. In addition, all of our executive officers and our directors are residents of China and not of the U.S., and substantially all the assets of these persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for investors to affect servic e of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S. against our Chinese operations and subsidiaries. 26 The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Only recently has China permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation in the future may cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Likewise, negative inflation could have an unfavorable effect on our business profitability in China. Negative inflation may cause a period where consumers are reluctant to spend, as consumers anticipate lower prices for products in the future. In the event of negative inflation, the Chinese govern ment may impose controls on credit and/or prices, or take other actions, which could inhibit economic activity, harming the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues will be settled in Renminbi and U.S. Dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividend or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain, including primarily the restriction that foreign-invested enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at those banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. The Chine se regulatory authorities may impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi in the future. Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i)purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii)adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii)covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv)purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v)making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. 27 Lorain Holding acquired certain interests in the Lorain Group Companies from a British Virgin Islands company controlled by Si Chen, our Chairman and sole director. Pursuant to Notice No. 75 and Notice 106, if a PRC resident has completed a round-trip investment through its established SPV but has not yet completed the required procedures of SAFE registration for offshore investment of the SPV, he must retroactively register the SPV with SAFE. In order to avoid such SAFE registration requirements, a Japanese individual, Hisashi Kazawn, was designated as a nominee holder of Lorain Holding when Lorain Holding was established. Mr. Akazawa has granted an option to our sole director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chen, allowing Mr. Chen to buy 90% of Mr. Akazawa's interest in the Company at a fixed price at a future time in accordance with the terms of an option agreement between the two parties. As a result, Mr. Chen may be deemed to be the actual beneficiary of Lorain Holding, regardless of the nominee. If Mr. Chen is deemed to be the beneficiary of Lorain Holding, he may be required to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE or its agency in connection with respect to the direct offshore investment activities related to the acquisition of the Lorain Group Companies. If Mr. Chen is required to register with the relevant authorities to disclose the offshore investment of the SPV, according to the Notice No. 75, the PRC subsidiaries of Mr. Chen’s SPV may be prohibited from making distributions of their profit and dividends and from paying proceeds from any of their reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV. In case the PRC subsidiaries had already distributed the above-mentioned profit and dividends or paid the aforesaid proceeds to the SPV before the date for application for retroactive SAFE registration with regard to the SPV, according to the Notice 106, the behavior of such distribution or payment may constitute evasion of foreign exchange rules in the PRC. In such case, according to the PRC Regulation on Administration of Foreign Exchange, the PRC subsidiaries and the actual controlling beneficiary of the SPV may have liability for evasion of foreign exchange rules, including, being ordered by the comp etent SAFE authorities to recall their foreign exchanges within specified time limit, fined of an amount of more than 30% and below five times the foreign exchange they had evaded. Criminal liabilities may also be possible if the violations are deemed particularly aggregious. Moreover, according to the Notice 106, the application for retroactive SAFE registration for the SPV will not be granted until the liabilities for evasion of foreign exchange have been fully pursued. Further, if the retroactive SAFE registration for the SPV has not been granted, the SAFE registration for acquisition of the PRC subsidiaries by the SPV will not be granted, which, in return, will affect our acquisition of interests in Lorain Group Companies from this British Virgin Islands company and cause potential action against British Virgin Islands company, Lorain Holding and the Lorain Group Companies. We have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. We cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75 or that any required future registrations, or amendments thereto, will comply with applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. 28 In addition, if the failure to identify and characterize Mr. Chen as a beneficial owner of Lorain Holdings is determined by the PRC authorities to be a serious violation of the requirements of the PRC Company Law and the PRC Regulation of Registration of Companies, the Lorain Group Companies may be ordered by the company registration authority in the PRC to make corrections on its filed registration, to be fined an amount no less than RMB 5,000 and no more than RMB 50,000 or, in the worse scenario, to have its company registration certificate revoked or its business licenses canceled. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. The value of our securities will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi. The value of our common stock will be affected by the foreign exchange rate between U.S. dollars and Renminbi, and between those currencies and other currencies in which our sales may be denominated. For example, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into Renminbi for our operational needs and should the Renminbi appreciate against the U.S. dollar at that time, our financial position, the business of the Company, and the price of our common stock may be harmed. Conversely, if we decide to convert our Renminbi into U.S. dollars for the purpose of declaring dividends on our common stock or for other business purposes and the U.S. dollar appreciates against the Renminbi; the U.S. dollar equivalent of our earnings from our subsidiaries in China would be reduced. Our strategy to procure raw ingredients supply is to diversify our suppliers both in the PRC and overseas. Currently, some of our raw materials and major equipment are imported. In the event that the U.S. dollars appreciate against Renminbi, our costs will increase. If we cannot pass the resulting cost increase on to our customers our profitability and operating results will suffer. In addition, since our sales to international customers grew rapidly, we are subject to the risk of foreign currency depreciation. Our licenses are subject to governmental control and renewal, failure to obtain renewal will cause all or part of our operations to be suspended or terminated. In accordance with PRC laws and regulations, we are required to maintain various licenses and permits in order to operate our business at each of our production facilities including, without limitation, hygiene permits, and industrial products production permits. We are required to comply with applicable hygiene and food safety standards in relation to our production processes. Our premises and transportation vehicles are subject to regular inspections by the regulatory authorities for compliance with the Detailed Rules for Administration and Supervision of Quality and Safety in Food Producing and Processing Enterprises. Failure to pass these inspections, or the loss of or failure to renew our licenses and permits, could require us to temporarily or permanently suspend some or all of our production activities, which could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO THE MARKET FOR OUR STOCK Certain of our stockholders may delay or prevent adoption of important business decisions by their ownership of significant percentage of outstanding voting securities. Mr. Akazawa is the record owner of approximately 65.43% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence and can elect a majority of our board of directors and authorize or prevent proposed significant corporate transactions. His ownership and control may also have the effect of delaying or preventing a future change in control, impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer. 29 Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. The OTC Bulletin Board is a significantly more limited market than the New York Stock Exchange or NASDAQ system. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. As of February 14, 2008, the closing price for our common stock was $9.51 per share, but our recent trading history has also shown prices below $5.00 per share and, therefore, our stock could be designated a “penny stock.” As a “penny stock,” our common stock may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the “Penny Stock Rule.” This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactio ns covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. Our common stock may not qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule at all times. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b) (6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or “Exchange Act”, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may include voting rights including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of the board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult, delay, discourage, prev ent or make it more costly to acquire or effect a change-in-control, which in turn could prevent the stockholders from recognizing a gain in the event that a favorable offer is extended and could materially and negatively affect the market price of our common stock. 30 SECTION 144 RISK Certain stockholders may be able to sell their securities pursuant to Rule 144 due to our corporate history Historically, the SEC staff has taken the position that Rule 144 is not available for the resale of securities initially issued by companies that are, or previously were, blank check companies like we were prior to the reverse merger, to their promoters or affiliates despite technical compliance with the requirements of Rule 144. The SEC has codified and expanded this position in the amendments discussed above by prohibiting the use of Rule 144 for resale of securities issued by any shell companies (other than business combination related shell companies) or any issuer that has been at any time previously a shell company. The SEC has provided an important exception to this prohibition, however, if the following conditions are met: the issuer of the securities that was formerly a shell company has ceased to be a shell company; the issuer of the securities is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; the issuer of the securities has filed all Exchange Act reports and material required to be filed, as applicable, during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the issuer was required to file such reports and materials), other than Form 8-K reports; and at least one year has elapsed from the time that the issuer filed current Form 10 type information with the SEC reflecting its status as an entity that is not a shell company. As a result, if all of these conditions are met, the selling stockholders and any subsequent stockholders will be able to sell their securities pursuant to Rule 144 without registration one year following the date that our reverse merger was consummated. 