D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have sold our business and currently conduct no business activities. In April 2003, we sold substantially all of our assets and liabilities (other than financial indebtedness) to STMicroelectronics. Since then, our plan of operation has been to evaluate the best course of action for Tikcro, including to attempt to merge or effect a business combination with a domestic or foreign, private or public operating entity in a new area of operations. Other than activities relating to attempting to locate such a candidate and activities relating to the investment of our funds, we do not currently conduct any operations. We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. We do not have an agreement or understanding with respect to engaging in a business combination with a specific entity. We expect to incur expenses in the course of this evaluation, whether or not such evaluation results in a business combination. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. No particular industry or specific business within an industry has been selected for a target company. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. In the event that we complete a business combination, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the management of the target company and numerous other factors beyond our control. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination on terms favorable to us, or at all. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Following the sale of our business to STMicroelectronics in April 2003 and the investment of the cash proceeds of the sale, we may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless we qualify for an exemption. The likelihood of being deemed to be an investment company increases over time if we do not enter into a business combination or develop an operating business. If we are deemed an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act of 1940. A violation of that law could subject us to material adverse consequences. Our shareholders may be subject to dilution of the value of our shares upon a business combination. A business combination normally will involve the issuance of a significant number of additional shares. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such business combination, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, perhaps significantly. 4 We may need additional financing following a business combination. If we consummate a business combination, we may need to raise funds through a public or private financing. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. We may face tax liabilities relating to our asset sales. We have generated a significant amount of income from the sale of the ASIC business of Silicon Value and our various agreements with STMicroelectronics. Based on our assessment and that of our tax advisors, we believe that we have fully satisfied all tax due in relation with these transactions. The tax authorities may not agree with our view. Any such disagreement and subsequent tax dispute could result in tax liabilities in amounts which we currently can not estimate. We might lose money from our investments. We plan to invest the majority of our cash on hand in a variety of financial instruments. If the obligor of any of the instruments we hold default or undergo a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. This will harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2006, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk Management.” We have not yet completed our evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We are considered a “non-accelerated filer” under applicable SEC rules. As such, we are required to comply with the internal control evaluation and certification requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in the following manner: (1) reporting by management under Section 404(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for the fiscal year ending on December 31, 2007, and (2) attestation by our independent auditors under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will be required for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2008. We have begun to evaluate whether our existing internal control over financial reporting systems is compliant with Section 404. As a result of this evaluation, we may be required to implement new internal control procedures over financial reporting. We may also experience higher than anticipated operating expenses and fees in this context. If we are unable to implement these changes effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. Risks relating to our incorporation in Israel Our incorporation in Israel may limit our ability to find a target for a merger or other business combination. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination with an Israeli company. 5 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers named herein may be difficult to effect within the United States because some of these people reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be enforceable within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if any Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in new Israeli shekels, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in new Israeli shekels at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in new Israeli shekels ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. 6 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. Risks relating to the market for our ordinary shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. There is a high likelihood that we were properly classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for 2006. Our classification as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the U.S. holders of our ordinary shares, thus causing a reduction in the value of our shares, and could trigger the application of certain United States tax reporting requirements. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, a company is treated as a PFIC for any tax year in which either: — 75% or more of our gross income is passive in nature, or 7 — on average for such tax year, 50% or more of our assets (by value or, if we so elect in certain circumstances, by adjusted tax basis) produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. For this purpose, passive income includes dividends, interest, royalties, rents, annuities and the excess of gains over losses from the disposition of assets which produce passive income. As a result of our relatively substantial cash and investment assets, there is a high likelihood that we were properly classified as a PFIC for 2005 and 2006 under the asset test. We could also be classified as a PFIC for 2007. A separate determination must be made each year as to whether we are a PFIC. As a result, our PFIC status may change. Highly complex rules apply to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares if we are treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any year during the U.S. holder’s holding period. Accordingly, U.S. holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of these tax rules. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. The delisting of our ordinary shares may reduce their liquidity. On December 19, 2001, our ordinary shares were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market and subsequently from the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Our ordinary shares currently are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic quotation medium regulated by the National Association of Securities Dealers. The market for shares quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Two shareholders may be able to control us. Izhak Tamir and Eric Paneth, directors of Tikcro, each beneficially own approximately 13.3% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they effectively may have the power to control the outcome of all matters submitted for the vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. Their combined equity interest in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult and may result in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Tikcro unless approved by one or both of them. 8 Our shareholder bonus rights plan may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. In September 2005, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2015. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Tikcro. 