Risk Factors — Fluctuations in exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our financial results” and “Item 10. Additional Information — Exchange Controls”. Each of our operating subsidiaries in Mainland China is able to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, as defined in applicable regulations, in order to satisfy its foreign exchange requirements. U.S. GAAP Reconciliation Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Hong Kong GAAP, which differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. The following table sets forth a comparison of our profit attributable to equity shareholders and shareholders’ equity in accordance with Hong Kong GAAP and U.S. GAAP. As of or for the year endedDecember 31 2004 2005 2006 (in millions of RMB) Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders in accordance with: Hong Kong GAAP 41,749 53,549 66,026 U.S. GAAP 45,061 54,504 65,074 Shareholders’ equity in accordance with: Hong Kong GAAP 233,161 272,824 319,002 U.S. GAAP 198,119 237,252 282,690 Under Hong Kong GAAP, we adopted the purchase accounting method to account for our acquisitions of the eight regional mobile telecommunications companies in July 2002, our acquisition of the ten regional mobile telecommunications companies and other telecommunications assets in July 2004 and our acquisition of Peoples in 2006. Under the purchase accounting method, the acquired results of these companies were included in the results of operations from the respective dates of acquisition. Goodwill is the excess of the cost over the fair value of our share of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired. In prior years, goodwill arising on the date of our acquisition of the eight regional mobile telecommunications companies in July 2002 and our acquisition of the ten 47 Table of Contents regional mobile telecommunications companies and other telecommunications assets in July 2004 is amortized to the consolidated statements of income on a straight line of twenty years. Effective January 1, 2005, we no longer amortize goodwill due to the adoption of HKFRS 3. See “Special Note on Our Financial Information and Certain Statistical Information Presented in This Annual Report”. Under U.S. GAAP, because we and the companies acquired from our immediate holding company were deemed to be under common control prior to the acquisitions, the acquisitions were considered a “combination of entities under common control”. Under U.S. GAAP, combinations of entities under common control are accounted for under the “as if pooling-of-interests” method, whereby assets and liabilities are accounted for at historical cost and our consolidated financial statements are adjusted retrospectively to include the financial statements of these previously separate companies for all periods presented. The consideration we paid or payable in each acquisition was treated as an equity transaction in the respective years of each acquisition, and goodwill amortization recognized under Hong Kong GAAP in 2004 was reversed for U.S. GAAP purposes. In addition, there are other differences between Hong Kong GAAP and U.S. GAAP for the periods presented, which relate primarily to: • the computation of capitalized interest; • the revaluation of property, plant and equipment and land lease prepayments of the acquired companies under Hong Kong GAAP; • the recognition of deferred income taxes; • the non-recognition under Hong Kong GAAP of certain of our employee housing scheme costs; • the treatment of share options we grant to directors and employees; • the recognition as revenue of connection fees and telephone number selection fees; and • the net savings arising from interconnection, roaming and leased line agreements. Disclosure relating to these differences can be found in note 40 to our consolidated financial statements. In addition, our condensed consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2005 and 2006 and our condensed consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity and comprehensive income and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006 prepared and presented under U.S. GAAP have been included in note 40 to our consolidated financial statements to reflect the impact of the significant differences between Hong Kong GAAP and U.S. GAAP. Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Senior Management The following table sets forth certain information concerning our directors and senior management as of May 31, 2007. Name Age Position Mr. WANG Jianzhou 58 Executive Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. LI Yue 48 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. LU Xiangdong 47 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. XUE Taohai 51 Executive Director, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mr. ZHANG Chenshuang 55 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. SHA Yuejia 49 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. LIU Aili 43 Executive Director and Vice President Madam XIN Fanfei 50 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. XU Long 50 Executive Director Mr. Paul Michael DONOVAN 48 Non-Executive Director Dr. LO Ka Shui 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Frank K.S. WONG 59 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Moses M.C. CHENG 57 Independent Non-Executive Director 48 Table of Contents Mr. WANG Jianzhou has served as our Executive Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since November 2004. Mr. Wang is in charge of our overall management. He is also the President of CMCC, the ultimate controlling shareholder of the Company, and the Chairman of CMC. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wang served as Deputy Director General and Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Bureau of Hangzhou City, Deputy Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Administration of Zhejiang Province, Director General of the Department of Planning and Construction of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Director General of the Department of General Planning of the Ministry of Information Industry, and Director, Executive Vice President, President and Chairman of China United Telecommunications Corporation, Executive Director, President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of China Unicom Limited, and Chairman and President of China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited. Mr. Wang graduated in 1985 from the Department of Management Engineering of Zhejiang University with a Master’s Degree in Engineering, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Wang is a professor-level senior engineer with extensive knowledge and has over 29 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. LI Yue has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2003. Mr. Li assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our network, planning, development strategy and management information systems. He has been serving as Vice President of CMCC since April 2000. Mr. Li is also a director of CMC. Mr. Li previously served as the Deputy Director General of the Tianjin Posts and Telecommunications Administration and the President of Tianjin Mobile Communications Company. Mr. Li graduated from Tianjin University with a Master’s Degree, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Li is a professor-level senior engineer with over 31 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. LU Xiangdong has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2003. Mr. Lu assists the Chief Executive Officer principally with respect to our marketing, data and corporate customer matters. He has been serving as Vice President of CMCC since April 2000. Mr. Lu is also a director of CMC, Chairman of Aspire Holdings Limited and a director of Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Limited. He previously served as the Director General of Fujian Wireless Telecommunications Administration and the Deputy Director General of the Mobile Telecommunications Bureau of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. Mr. Lu graduated from the Academy of Posts and Telecommunications of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications with a Master’s Degree in wireless telecommunications, and holds a doctoral degree in economics from Peking University. Mr. Lu is a professor-level senior engineer with nearly 25 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. XUE Taohai has served as our Executive Director, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2002. Mr. Xue assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our corporate finance and human resources remuneration. Mr. Xue is also Vice President of CMCC and a director of CMC. Mr. Xue previously served as the Deputy Director General of the Finance Department of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Deputy Director General of the Department of Financial Adjustment and Clearance of the Ministry of Information Industry and Deputy Director General of the former Directorate General of Telecommunications. He graduated from Henan University and received an EMBA degree from Peking University. He is a senior accountant with over 27 years of experience in the telecommunications industry and financial management. Mr. ZHANG Chenshuang has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since July 2004. Mr. Zhang assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our corporate affairs. Mr. Zhang has been serving as Vice President of CMCC since April 2001. Mr. Zhang is also a director of CMC. Mr. Zhang previously served as the Deputy Director General of the Office of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, the Director General of the Neimenggu Posts and Telecommunications Administration, and the Assistant to the President of CMCC. He graduated from the Party School of the CPC and received an MBA degree from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He is a senior economist with over 27 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. SHA Yuejia has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2006. Mr. Sha assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our business support, technology and research & development. He is also a Vice President of CMCC and a director of CMC since May 2005. He previously served as Director of the Engineering Construction Department IV Division of Beijing Telecommunications Administration, President of Beijing Telecommunications Planning Design Institute, Deputy Director General of Beijing Telecommunications Administration, Vice President of Beijing Mobile Communications Company, and Director 49 Table of Contents and Vice President, Chairman and President of Beijing Mobile. Mr. Sha graduated from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, and received a Master’s Degree from the Academy of Posts and Telecommunications of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He is a professor-level senior engineer with over 24 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. LIU Aili has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2006. Mr. Liu assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our business expansion. He is also a Vice President of CMCC, a director of CMC and Chairman of CMPak Limited. He previously served as Deputy Director General of Shandong Mobile Telecommunications Administration, Director General of Shandong Mobile Telecommunications Administration and General Manager of Shandong Mobile Communications Enterprises, Vice President of Shandong Mobile Communications Company, Director-General of Network Department of China Mobile Communications Corporation, and Chairman and President of Shandong Mobile and Zhejiang Mobile. Mr. Liu graduated from Heilongjiang Posts and Telecommunications School with an associate degree and completed a post-graduate program in economics at Shandong University. Mr. Liu also received a Master of Management degree from Norwegian School of Management BI and a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He is a professor-level senior engineer with over 24 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Madam XIN Fanfei has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since January 2006. Madam Xin assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our general administration and investor and media relations. She is also Chairwoman of Peoples. She previously served as Deputy Director of the Foreign Affairs Division, Deputy Director of the Planning Division and Chief of the Planning Office, Director of the Planning Division, Director of the Department of Planning and Construction of Tianjin Posts and Telecommunications Administration, Assistant to the Director General and Director of the Department of Planning and Construction of Tianjin Mobile Telecommunications Administration, Vice President of Tianjin Mobile Communications Company, Vice President of Tianjin Mobile, President of Heilongjiang Mobile Communications Company, and Chairwoman and President of Heilongjiang Mobile. Madam Xin graduated from Xidian University and received an EMBA degree from Peking University. She is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Madam Xin is a professor-level senior engineer with many years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. XU Long has served as our Executive Director since August 1999. He is also the Chairman and President of Guangdong Mobile, responsible for the mobile telecommunications operations in Guangdong Province. He previously served as Deputy Director of Shaoxing Posts and Telecommunications Bureau, President of Zhejiang Nantian Posts and Telecommunications Group Company, Director of the General Office and Deputy Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Administration in Zhejiang Province, and Chairman and President of Zhejiang Mobile. He graduated from Zhejiang Radio and Television University in 1985, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Xu is a senior economist with 29 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. Paul Michael DONOVAN has served as our Non-Executive Director since June 2006. Mr. Donovan is Chief Executive Officer for Central Europe, Middle East, Asia-Pacific and Affiliates (EMAPA) of Vodafone. Mr. Donovan is also a member of the Executive Committee of Vodafone, a director of Vodafone’s operating companies located in Turkey, Hungary, Australia, New Zealand, Egypt, Czech Republic and Romania and also a director of certain other subsidiaries of Vodafone. Prior to his appointment as the Chief Executive Officer of the EMAPA division, Mr. Donovan was Chief Executive Officer of the Other Vodafone Subsidiaries, which included 14 of Vodafone’s operating subsidiaries. Mr. Donovan joined Vodafone UK in 1999 as Managing Director — Commercial, and in 2001 was appointed the Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Ireland. In 2004 he assumed the additional role of Global Director of Business Integration, leading One Vodafone, Vodafone’s business transformation program. Mr. Donovan began his career in FMCG sales and marketing at the Mars Group, before becoming Marketing Director at Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages in 1989. He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Scandinavian Studies from University College London and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Bradford University Management Centre, and has over 15 years experience in the telecommunications and information technology industries, gained at Apple Computer, BT and Cable and Wireless subsidiary One2One as Commercial Director, and as Chief Commercial Officer at Australian telecommunications provider Optus Communications. His other directorships held in listed public companies in the last three years include Vodafone Libertel NV, Vodafone Egypt Telecommunications S.A.E., Vodafone-PanafonHellenic Telecommunications Company S.A. and Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited. Dr. LO Ka Shui has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since April 2001. Dr. Lo is the Chairman and Managing Director of Great Eagle Holdings Limited, and is the non-executive chairman of Eagle Asset Management (CP) Limited (manager of Hong Kong listed Champion Real Estate Investment Trust). He is also a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Shanghai Industrial Holdings Limited, Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Limited, City e-Solutions Limited, Melco International Development Limited, The HSBC China Fund Limited, Tom Online Inc. and Winsor 50 Table of Contents Properties Holdings Limited. He was also a director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. Apart from the aforesaid, he did not hold any other directorships in other listed public companies in the last three years. He is also a Vice President of the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong, a Trustee of the Hong Kong Centre for Economic Research and a Member of the Airport Authority. Dr. Lo graduated with a Bachelor of Science Degree from McGill University in Canada and a Doctorate degree in medicine from Cornell University in the United States. He is board certified in cardiology. He has more than 27 years of experience in property and hotel development and investment both in Hong Kong and overseas. Mr. Frank K.S. WONG has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since August 2002. Mr. Wong is currently Vice Chairman of DBS Bank, Chief Operating Officer and a member of the boards of DBS Bank and DBS Group Holdings, and Chairman of DBS Bank (Hong Kong). Mr. Wong is also a director of the Singapore Tourism Board, National Healthcare Group Pte Ltd and Mapletree Investments Pte Ltd, and is a member of the University Court of The University of Hong Kong. He previously held a series of progressively senior positions with regional responsibility at Citibank, JP Morgan and NatWest from 1967 to 1999. Mr. Wong has also served in various positions with Hong Kong’s government bodies including the Chairman of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange. Mr. Wong has many years of finance and commercial management experience. Mr. Moses M.C. CHENG has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since March 2003. Mr. Cheng is a practicing solicitor and the senior partner of Messrs. P.C. Woo & Co. Mr. Cheng was a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong between 1991 and 1995. He is the Founder Chairman of the Hong Kong Institute of Directors of which he currently is the Honorary President and Chairman Emeritus. His other directorships held in listed public companies in the last three years include Beijing Capital International Airport Company Limited, City Telecom (HK) Limited, China COSCO Holdings Company Limited, China Resources Enterprise Limited, Guangdong Investment Limited, Kader Holdings Company Limited, Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited (formerly known as K. Wah Construction Materials Limited), Liu Chong Hing Investment Limited, Shui On Construction and Materials Limited, Tian An China Investments Company Limited and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. Compensation The aggregate amount of compensation that we paid to our directors and executive officers in 2006 for services performed as directors, officers or employees was approximately HK$63 million (US$8.2 million). We adopted a share option scheme on October 8, 1997, or the Old Scheme, pursuant to which our directors may, at their discretion, invite our employees, including executive directors, or employees of our subsidiaries, to take up options to subscribe for ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares equal to 10% of our total issued share capital. Pursuant to a resolution passed at the annual general meeting held on June 24, 2002, the Old Scheme was terminated and a new share option scheme, or the Current Scheme, was adopted. The purpose of the Current Scheme is to provide the Company with a flexible and effective means of remunerating and providing benefits to the employees, the executive directors and the non-executive directors of the Company, any of its holdings companies and their respective subsidiaries and any entity in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds any equity interest, thereby providing incentives to these participants. Under the Current Scheme, the directors of the Company may, at their discretion, invite the plan participants to take up options to subscribe for the ordinary shares of the Company. The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which can be subscribed pursuant to options that are or may be granted under the above schemes equals to 10% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at the date of adoption of the Current Scheme. Options lapsed or cancelled in accordance with the terms of the Old Scheme or the Current Scheme will not be counted for the purpose of calculating this 10% limit. As the Old Scheme was terminated with effect on June 24, 2002, no further options were granted under the Old Scheme thereafter. As at December 31, 2006, the total number of ordinary shares which may be issued on the exercise of the outstanding options granted under the Old Scheme is 14,401,300. As at the same date, the total number of ordinary shares which may be issued on the exercise of the outstanding options granted or to be granted under the Current Scheme is 1,559,974,404. No share options were granted under the Current Scheme during the year ended December 31, 2006. The consideration payable for the grant of option under each of the Old Scheme and the Current Scheme is HK$1.00. For options granted before September 1, 2001 under the Old Scheme, the exercise price of the options was determined by the directors of the Company at their discretion provided that such price may not be set below a minimum price which is the higher of: (i) the nominal value of a share; and 51 Table of Contents (ii) 80% of the average of the closing price of the ordinary share on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on the five trading days immediately preceding the date on which the option was granted. For options granted under the Current Scheme, the exercise price of the options are determined by the directors of the Company at their discretion provided that such price may not be set below a minimum price which is the highest of: (i) the nominal value of an ordinary share; (ii) the closing price of the ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on the date on which the option was granted; and (iii) the average closing price of the ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately preceding the date on which the option was granted. Under both the Old Scheme and the Current Scheme, the term of the option is determined by the directors at their discretion, provided that all options shall be exercised within 10 years after the adoption of the scheme (in the case of the Old Scheme) and within 10 years after the date on which the option is granted (in the case of the Current Scheme). As of December 31, 2006, the directors and employees of the Company had options to subscribe for the ordinary shares of the Company granted under both the Old Scheme and, from June 24, 2002 onwards, the Current Scheme. In 2006, 132,654,741 of these options had been exercised. See “— Share Ownership” below for details on options granted to our directors. Board Practices To enhance our corporate governance, we have three principal board committees, the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee. The audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee are all comprised solely of independent non-executive directors. Audit Committee The members of our audit committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Mr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The audit committee’s major responsibilities include: • to review the financial reports, the related report of independent registered public accounting firm and management’s responses to the reports; • to discuss the audit procedures with the independent registered public accounting firm as well as any issues arising out of such procedures; • to review the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm, the audit and non-audit fees and any matters relating to the termination or resignation of the independent registered public accounting firm; and • to examine the effectiveness of our internal controls, to review our internal audit plan and to submit relevant reports and recommendations to our Board on a regular basis. The audit committee usually meets four times each year. Remuneration Committee The members of our remuneration committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Mr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The remuneration committee’s major responsibilities include: • to advise the Board in relation to the remuneration structure and payments of our executive directors and executives; and • to represent the Board in confirming the individual remuneration packages and employment terms of executive directors and approving their related employment contracts. Meetings of the remuneration committee are held at least once a year. 52 Table of Contents Nomination Committee The members of our nomination committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Mr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The primary responsibilities of the nomination committee include: • to review, advise and make recommendations to the board on the matters in relation to the appointment and re-appointment of board members; and • to ensure the proper and transparent procedures for the appointment and re-appointment of directors. Meetings of the nomination committee are held at least once a year. As a foreign private issuer (as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), we are permitted to follow home country practices in lieu of some of the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, our corporate governance practices differ in some respects from those required to be followed by U.S. companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Employees See “