Risk Factors — Risks Relating to the Telecommunications Industry in Mainland China — Current or future asymmetrical and other regulatory measures adopted by the PRC regulatory authorities could materially harm our competitive position.” Nonetheless, given the customer growth potential in the small and medium-sized cities and rural areas in Mainland China, we believe there is growth potential for our mobile telecommunications business. In particular, we believe that the industry restructuring in 2009 will help optimize the allocation of telecommunications resources and help create a fair, orderly, transparent and healthy telecommunications market. Despite existing and future competition, we believe the following factors have contributed to our customer quality compared to that of our existing competitors and we seek to continue developing our competitive advantages on the basis of these factors: • our economies of scale; • our high-quality mobile telecommunications networks; • our advanced and flexible support systems; • our widely-recognized brand name and logo that are closely identified with us by consumers; • our broad distribution networks and our focus on customer services; • our extensive range of data business; • our experienced management team and seasoned employees; • our strong capabilities of execution and innovation; and • our financial resources. -25- Table of Contents Regulation The mobile telecommunications industry in Mainland China is highly regulated. Regulations issued or implemented by the State Council, the MIIT and other relevant government authorities including the NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce, encompass all key aspects of mobile telecommunications network operations, including entry into the telecommunications industry, scope of permissible business, interconnection and transmission line arrangements, technology and equipment standards, tariff standards, capital investment priorities, foreign investment policies and spectrum and numbering resources allocation. The MIIT, under the supervision of the State Council, is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. In order to provide a uniform regulatory framework to encourage the orderly development of the telecommunications industry, the MIIT, under the direction of the State Council, has been preparing a draft telecommunications law. We expect that, if and when the telecommunications law is adopted by the National People’s Congress, it will become the basic telecommunications statute and the legal source of telecommunications regulations in Mainland China. In addition, the State Council promulgated a set of telecommunications regulations on September 25, 2000. These regulations apply in the interim period prior to the adoption of the telecommunications law. Although we expect that the telecommunications law will have a positive effect on the overall development of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China, we cannot predict what the ultimate nature and scope of the telecommunications law will be. Entry into the Industry. Under the current regulations, operators of mobile telecommunications networks, providers of other basic telecommunications services such as local and long distance fixed-line telephone services, and data service providers whose telecommunications services cover two or more provinces, directly-administered municipalities or autonomous regions in Mainland China must apply for specific permits from the MIIT in order to provide such services. Granting of permits for providing basic telecommunications services will be through a tendering process. In addition to us, China Telecom and China Unicom are currently also authorized to provide mobile telecommunications services in all provinces, directly-administered municipalities and autonomous regions in China. Pursuant to China’s commitments under the WTO and the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign-Funded Telecommunications Enterprises, which became effective on January 1, 2002, foreign investors may invest in joint ventures that provide telecommunications services in Mainland China. However, these investments will presumably bear no direct relation to the issuance of licenses to providers of telecommunications services in Mainland China, as the issuance of new licenses by the relevant authority is governed by a separate set of rules and regulations. Pursuant to the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign-Funded Telecommunications Enterprises, as amended in September 2008, foreign ownership in a telecommunications enterprise may be gradually increased to 49% if such enterprise provides basic telecommunications services and 50% if such enterprise provides value-added telecommunications services (including radio paging services). The MIIT has promulgated the Administrative Measures for the Licensing of Telecommunication Business Operations, which became effective on April 10, 2009. Those regulations apply to the application for, and examination and approval of, telecommunications business licenses in the PRC. Spectrum Usage. In coordination with the relevant provincial authorities, the MIIT regulates the allocation of radio frequency. The frequency assigned to an entity is not allowed to be leased or, without approval of the MIIT, transferred by the entity to any other third party. In accordance with a joint circular from the NDRC and the MOF, CMCC has entered into an agreement with us that specifies the amount of fees to be paid to the MIIT for spectrum usage by each mobile telecommunications network operator based on the bandwidth of the frequency used and the number of base stations within the relevant operator’s networks. Spectrum usage fees for GSM networks are currently charged at the annual rate of RMB17 million per MHz for the 900 MHz frequency band and RMB15 million per MHz for the 1800 MHz frequency band. Spectrum usage fees are charged on the basis that upward and downward frequencies are separately charged. The relevant regulatory authorities in China may review these fee arrangements in the future. -26- Table of Contents Numbering Resources. The MIIT is responsible for the administration of the telecommunications numbering resources within Mainland China, including the telecommunications network numbers and customer numbers. The use of numbering resources by any telecommunications operator is subject to the approval by the MIIT. In January 2003, the former Ministry of Information Industry, or the MII, issued the Measures on Administration of Telecommunications Network Numbering Resources, pursuant to which a user of numbering resources is required to pay a usage fee to the state. In December 2004, the MII, the MOF and the NDRC jointly issued the Provisional Administrative Measures with respect to the Collection of the Usage Fee of Telecommunications Network Numbering Resources, under which telecommunications companies are required to pay a usage fee to the PRC government by the 10th day of the first month of each quarter. Moreover, under these provisional measures, mobile telecommunications companies are required to pay an annual usage fee of RMB12 million for each network number. Tariff Setting. Our tariffs are subject to regulation by various government authorities, including the MIIT, the NDRC and the relevant price regulatory authorities in Mainland China. Under the current telecommunications regulations, telecommunications tariffs are categorized into market based tariffs, government guidance tariffs and government standard tariffs. As a general matter, the actual price range in each service area is proposed by a network operator in that service area, and must be approved by the relevant price regulatory authorities in that service area. In addition, local usage charges, monthly fees, maximum domestic roaming usage charges and maximum domestic long distance tariffs (other than tariffs for IP phone calls) are also determined generally by the MIIT in consultation with the NDRC. In August 2005, the MII amended its tariff regulations relating to certain telecommunications services, which gave network operators more flexibility in setting, among other things, their domestic and international long distance tariffs and domestic roaming usage charges, provided that these tariffs and charges do not exceed the respective maximum tariffs it determined in consultation with the NDRC and that the tariff plans are filed with the MII (and, currently, with the MIIT) and the NDRC or, in some cases, the relevant price regulatory authorities at the provincial level. The MIIT has continued encouraging mobile telecommunications operators in Mainland China to implement the caller-party-pays regime, and mobile telecommunications operators, including us, have been implementing the caller-party-pays regime. In particular, all of the new calling plan packages that we have been offering in Mainland China since the beginning of 2007 are based on tariffs substantially equivalent to the caller-party-pays regime. In March 2008, the MII reduced the maximum domestic roaming usage charges that a mobile telecommunications services provider may charge on roaming services. In December 2009, the PRC regulators further promulgated policies to eliminate domestic roaming usage charges on outgoing international long distance calls when domestic roaming services are used, as well as eliminate local usage charges on outgoing domestic and international long distance calls when roaming services are not used. Our international roaming usage charges are set in accordance with agreements with the relevant foreign mobile operators. Under the current telecommunications regulations, tariffs for those telecommunications businesses that are considered fully competitive may be set by the service providers as market based tariffs. Interconnection Arrangements and Lease Line Arrangements. Under the current telecommunications regulations, parties seeking interconnection must enter into an interconnection agreement and file such agreement with the MIIT. In addition, major telecommunications services providers that have control over essential telecommunications infrastructure and possess significant market share must allow interconnection to their networks by other operators. These telecommunications services providers must also establish interconnection rules and procedures based on the principles of non-discrimination and transparency and submit such rules and procedures to the MIIT for approval. The termination of any interconnection arrangements will require prior approval by the MIIT. The applicable regulations provide that interconnection related equipment must conform to the technical standards approved by the MIIT. See “— Technical Standards” below. The MIIT also determines the standard lease tariffs to be paid by telecommunications operators with respect to the leasing of transmission lines that facilitate interconnection between telecommunications networks. Technical Standards. Certain regulatory authorities in Mainland China, including the MIIT, set technical standards and control the type and quality of mobile telecommunications equipment used in or connected to public networks, all radio telecommunications equipment and all interconnection related equipment. -27- Table of Contents The establishment of base stations requires the approval of the relevant provincial regulatory authorities. We have not experienced and do not expect to experience material difficulty in obtaining permission to establish additional sites. Capital Investment. We may be required to obtain approvals from relevant regulatory authorities in Mainland China with respect to some of our investment projects. Sharing of Telecommunications Infrastructure. In September 2008, the MIIT and the SASAC jointly issued a Notice on Promoting Joint Construction and Sharing of Telecommunications Infrastructure, which stipulates that the telecommunications operators in Mainland China must share existing transmission towers and masts and jointly construct future transmission towers and masts. The joint notice also requires the telecommunications operators to share and jointly construct base station facilities and transmission lines to the extent feasible, and prohibits exclusive arrangements in the leasing of third-party sites and premises. CMCC, China Unicom and China Telecom have subsequently entered into an agreement to set out the framework under which they will jointly construct and share relevant telecommunications infrastructure. Convergence of Telecom, Broadcasting and Internet Businesses. In January 2010, the PRC government announced a policy decision, or the Three-Network-Convergence Policy, to accelerate the advancement of the convergence of television and radio broadcasting, telecommunications and Internet access businesses in order to realize interconnection and resource sharing between the three networks and further develop the provision of voice, data, television and other services. Specifically, the Three-Network Convergence Policy will be initially carried out on a trial basis in selective geographic locations between 2010 and 2012 and further implemented on a larger scale in 2013 through 2015. The PRC government may amend the relevant regulations or promulgate new regulations in order to implement the Three-Network Convergence Policy. The new policy decision is expected to enhance the development of information industries, satisfy consumers’ diverse demands, promote domestic consumption and form new areas for economic growth. Employees As of December 31, 2009, 2010 and 2011, we had 145,954, 164,336 and 175,336 employees, respectively. Substantially all of our employees are located in Mainland China. The employees as of December 31, 2011 were classified in the following table. Approximately 65.5% of our permanent employees have college or graduate degrees. Set forth below is a breakdown of our employees by functions as of December 31, 2011. Management 23,303 Technical 46,964 Marketing 69,451 General affairs 29,333 Others 6,285 Total 175,336 We provide benefits to certain employees, including housing, retirement benefits and hospital, maternity, disability and dependent medical care benefits. Most of our employees are members of a labor association. We have not experienced any strikes, slowdowns or labor disputes that have interfered with our operations to date, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. The number of workers sourced by third parties that provided services to us reached 323,506 as of December 31, 2011. Properties, Plants and Equipment We own, lease or have usage rights in various properties which consist of land and buildings for offices, administrative centers, staff quarters, retail outlets and technical facilities. We believe that all of our owned and leased properties are well maintained and are suitable and adequate for their present use. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. -28- Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, together with the related notes, included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F. Overview of Our Operations The following table sets forth selected information about our operations for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2009 2010 2011 Total Voice Usage (in billions of minutes) 2,918.7 3,461.6 3,887.2 Total Operating Revenue (in RMB millions) 452,103 485,231 527,999 Total Operating Expenses (in RMB millions) 305,095 334,477 376,700 Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (in RMB millions) 115,166 119,640 125,870 In 2009, 2010 and 2011, our customer base and voice usage volume continued to experience considerable growth. Our total net increase in number of customers was approximately 65.6 million during 2011 and our total customer base reached approximately 649.6 million as of December 31, 2011. Our total voice usage increased by 18.6% from 2009 to 2010, and by 12.3% in 2011. As a result, our total operating revenue increased by 7.3% from 2009 to 2010, and by 8.8% in 2011. Our data business continued to grow, and our data services revenue accounted for 24.9% and 26.4% of our total operating revenue in 2010 and 2011, respectively. Our total operating expenses increased by 9.6% from 2009 to 2010, and by 12.6% in 2011. Our profit attributable to equity shareholders increased by 3.9% from 2009 to 2010, and by 5.2% in 2011. The PRC economy continued to grow in terms of GDP by 9.2% in 2011, which provided a favorable environment for our continued business development. However, following the restructuring of the telecommunications industry and the issuance of the 3G licenses, market competition in the telecommunications industry in Mainland China has intensified. As the mobile penetration rate in Mainland China reached 73.6% as of December 31, 2011, the mobile telecommunications markets in some economically developed regions of Mainland China also began to show signs of saturation. We intend to continue to cope with market and industry challenges that may arise from time to time by leveraging our customer base, network quality, brand name and execution capabilities. Moreover, although the overall mobile penetration rate in Mainland China is increasing, the mobile penetration rate in rural areas remains relatively low. We believe that there remains potential for continued growth in our customer base and our business. We have been a mobile telecommunications services provider in China since our inception in 1997. We acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Hong Kong Mobile in 2006, which enabled us to expand into the Hong Kong mobile telecommunications market. See “