D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have sold our business and currently conduct no business activities. In April 2003, we sold substantially all of our assets and liabilities (other than financial indebtedness) to STMicroelectronics. Since then, our plan of operation has been to evaluate the best course of action for Tikcro, including to attempt to merge or effect a business combination with a domestic or foreign, private or public operating company or to acquire minority stakes in one or more operating companies in new areas of operations. Other than activities relating to attempting to locate such a candidate and activities relating to the investment of our funds, we do not currently conduct any operations. We agreed to provide $2.5 million of funding to BioCancell Therapeutics, Inc., an Israel-based clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company whose future is uncertain. We agreed to fund BioCancell, to appoint a member to its board of directors and to provide it with certain consulting services. This transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including the approval of BioCancell’s public shareholders. BioCancell is developing new drugs for the treatment of various types of cancer. To be profitable, BioCancell must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute its drugs. The path necessary to achieve these goals for any drug product is long and uncertain. Before BioCancell can sell any drug, it will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that it is safe and effective for human use in the treatment of individuals with cancer. BioCancell has never successfully commercialized a drug product and no assurance can be given that BioCancell will be able to successfully complete the clinical trials for its drugs in development in accordance with the standards of the U.S. Federal Drug Administration, or if it is able, that its drugs will prove to be safe and will produce the intended effects. If BioCancell does not successfully meet its scientific, regulatory, financial and commercial challenges, then the value of our investment in BioCancell may significantly decline. BioCancell will require additional funding, which may further draw on our resources or result in significant dilution of our ownership. BioCancell is expected to need additional funding for its operations in 2009 and may not be able to raise such funds without our participation. If we allocate additional funds to BioCancell, our cash reserves will decline and the dependence of our results on the results of BioCancell will increase. If we do not allocate additional funds to BioCancell, our holding in BioCancell would be diluted, our influence over its business could weaken and the value of our holding could materially decline. We may not be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination or other acquisitions. We expect to incur expenses in the course of evaluating potential business combinations or other acquisitions, whether or not such evaluation results in a transaction. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating a business combination. No particular industry or specific business within an industry has been selected for a target company. Accordingly, we may enter into a business combination with a business entity having no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. In the event that we complete a business combination or acquire stakes in one or more operating companies, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the management of such target company or companies and numerous other factors. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate a business combination or other transactions on terms favorable to us, or at all. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. Following the sale of our business to STMicroelectronics in April 2003 and the investment of the cash proceeds of the sale, we may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless we qualify for an exemption. The likelihood of being deemed to be an investment company increases over time if we do not enter into a business combination or develop an operating business. Even if we acquire minority stakes in one or more operating companies, we may be deemed an investment company if we do not have sufficient control over such companies or qualify for another exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act of 1940. A violation of that law could make it more difficult for us to register securities and raise funding and subject us to other material adverse consequences. 3 Our shareholders may be subject to dilution of the value of our shares if we conduct a business combination. A business combination, which is one of the business alternatives considered by us, normally will involve the issuance of a significant number of additional shares. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such business combination, the per share value of our ordinary shares may increase or decrease, perhaps significantly. We may need additional financing in connection with a business combination or other transaction. If we consummate a business combination or acquire stakes in one or more operating companies, we may need to raise funds through a public or private financing. We agreed to provide $2.5 million in funding to BioCancell, which will require additional funding in 2009. We may not be provide BioCancell with the support it requires unless we raise additional funds. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all. We may face tax liabilities relating to our asset sales. We have generated a significant amount of income from the sale of the ASIC business of Silicon Value in 2001 and our various agreements with STMicroelectronics in 2002 to 2005. Based on our assessment and that of our tax advisors, we believe that we have fully satisfied all tax due in relation with these transactions. The tax authorities may not agree with our view. Any such disagreement and subsequent tax dispute could result in tax liabilities in amounts which we currently can not estimate. We might lose money from the investment of our cash. We plan to invest the majority of our cash on hand in a variety of financial instruments. If the obligor of any of the instruments we hold default or undergo a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. This will harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2007, see Item 11 – “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk – Interest Rate Risk Management.” We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we are required to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and various SEC regulations. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and, commencing from fiscal year 2009, by our independent registered public accounting firm. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. Once we complete a business combination, we will likely need to invest additional time and resources in connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to assure that we continue to comply with these requirements. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 4 Risks relating to our incorporation in Israel Our incorporation in Israel may limit our ability to find a target for a business combination or other transactions outside Israel. We are incorporated under the laws of Israel. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Political, economic and military conditions might deter potential targets from effecting a business combination or other transaction with an Israeli company. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers named herein may be difficult to effect within the United States because some of these people reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be enforceable within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if any Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; 5 — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in new Israeli shekels, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in new Israeli shekels at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in new Israeli shekels ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, which may depress out share price. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. 6 The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. Risks relating to the market for our ordinary shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face income tax risks. As a consequence of our ownership of substantial cash and investment assets but no operating business assets, it is likely that we would be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having been a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, during each of 2005, 2006 and 2007. We could also be classified as a PFIC for 2008, although the determination of PFIC status is made separately for each year and our PFIC status could change. Classification as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares, which could, in turn, cause a reduction in the value of our ordinary shares. Classification as a PFIC also triggers the application of certain United States tax reporting requirements. Complex rules apply to a U.S. holder of our ordinary shares if we are treated as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes for any year during such U.S. holder’s holding period. Accordingly, U.S. holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the application of these rules. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. The trading market for our ordinary shares has low liquidity, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares currently are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, an electronic quotation medium regulated by the National Association of Securities Dealers. Currently, we do not meet the initial listing conditions of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The market for shares quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Two shareholders may be able to control us. Izhak Tamir and Eric Paneth, directors of Tikcro, each beneficially own approximately 12.6% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they effectively may have the power to control the outcome of all matters submitted for the vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. Their combined equity interest in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult and may result in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Tikcro unless approved by one or both of them. 7 Our shareholder bonus rights plan may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. In September 2005, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2015. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Tikcro. 