Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history may not serve as an adequate basis to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a limited operating history. We are engaged in the business of developing, manufacturing and sales of lithium-based rechargeable battery cells used for a wide range of portable electronic applications. We were established in Shenzhen, China in August 2001 and commenced operations in June 2002. Our limited operating history may not provide a meaningful basis for an investor to evaluate our business, financial performance and prospects. We may not be able to: — maintain our leading position in the cellular phone battery replacement market; — retain existing customers or acquire new customers; — diversify our revenue sources by successfully developing and selling our products in the global cellular phone OEM market, notebook computer battery market and other markets; — keep up with evolving industry standards and market developments; — respond to competitive market conditions; — maintain adequate control of our expenses; — manage our relationships with our suppliers; — attract, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; or — protect our proprietary technologies. If we are unsuccessful in addressing any of these challenges, our business may be materially and adversely affected. General economic conditions can significantly affect our financial results. Our financial results can be significantly affected by general economic conditions, inflationary pressures, high labor or material and commodity costs and unforeseen changes in consumer demand or buying patterns. Changes in our ability to generate sufficient internal cash flows, as well as access to capital markets, interest rate fluctuations and other conditions which impact the ability to borrow, may negatively affect our ability to support capital expansion plans, general operations, research and development activity, and advertising and promotional activities. 24 Instability in the world financial markets and the global economy, including (and as a result of) the conflicts in the Middle East, may create uncertainty in the industries in which the Company operates, and may adversely affect its business. In addition, terrorist activities may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. We are primarily dependent on sales of lithium-ion battery cells for the cellular phone battery replacement market. A reduction in the volume or average price of lithium-ion battery cells that we sell for this market would cause our overall revenue to decline. We have derived a major portion of revenues to date from sales of our lithium-ion battery cells for the cellular phone battery replacement market. While we intend to diversify our revenue sources by expanding to the global cellular phone OEM market, notebook computers and high-power electrical tool markets, we expect that sales of battery cells used for the cellular phone battery replacement market will continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues in the near future. Accordingly, any decrease in the demand for our battery cells in the replacement market resulting from success of competing products, slower than expected growth of sales in the replacement market or other adverse developments relating to the replacement market may materially and adversely affect our business and cause our overall revenue to decline. In addition, our expansion to the global cellular phone battery OEM market and other markets may not increase our revenue to a level that would enable us to materially reduce our dependence on sales of battery cells for the cellular phone replacement market. Our business depends on the growth in demand for portable electronic devices. As the market demand for portable electronic devices is directly related to the demand for our products, a fast growing portable electronic device market will be critical to the success of our business. In anticipation of an expected increase in demand for portable electronic devices such as cellular phones and notebook computers in the next few years, we have expanded our manufacturing capacity. However, the markets we have targeted, including those of the PRC, may not achieve the level of growth we expect. If this market fails to achieve our expected level of growth, we will have excess production capacity and may not be able to generate enough revenue to maintain our profitability. Our future success depends on the success of manufacturers of the end applications that use our products. As we expand to the battery markets for global OEM cellular phones, notebook computers and other portable electronic devices, our future success depends on whether end application manufacturers are willing to use batteries that incorporate our products. To secure acceptance of our products, we must constantly develop and introduce more reliable and cost-effective battery cells with enhanced functionality to meet evolving industry standards. Our failure to gain acceptance of our products from these manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our future success. Even if a manufacturer decides to use batteries that incorporate our products, the manufacturer may not be able to market and sell its products successfully. The manufacturer’s inability to market and sell its products successfully, whether from lack of market acceptance or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects because this manufacturer may not order new products from us. If we cannot achieve the expected level of sales, we will not be able to make sufficient profits to offset the expenditures we have incurred to expand our production capacity, nor will we be able to grow our business. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future success would be materially and adversely affected. We experience fluctuations in quarterly operating results. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will fluctuate in the future. The demand for our products is driven largely by demand for the end-product applications that are powered by our products. Accordingly, the rechargeable battery industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside our control. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand for batteries and their end applications, capacity ramp up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. 25 Our failure to keep up with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards may cause our products to become obsolete and less marketable, resulting in loss of market share to our competitors. The lithium-based battery market is characterized by changing technologies and evolving industry standards, which are difficult to predict. This, coupled with frequent introduction of new products and models, has shortened product life cycles and may render our products obsolete or unmarketable. Our ability to adapt to evolving industry standards and anticipate future standards will be a significant factor in maintaining and improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. To achieve this goal, we have invested and plan to continue investing significant financial resources in our R&D infrastructure. R&D activities, however, are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Accordingly, our significant investment in our R&D infrastructure may not bear fruit. On the other hand, our competitors may improve their technologies or even achieve technological breakthroughs that would render our products obsolete or less marketable. Therefore, our failure to effectively keep up with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards by introducing new and enhanced products may cause us to lose our market share and to suffer a decrease in our revenue. A change in our product mix may cause our results of operations to differ substantially from the anticipated results in any particular period. Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix are substantially different than anticipated. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated in any particular period, our profitability could be lower than anticipated. Failure to successfully obtain OEM certification from international cellular phone brand owners may materially and adversely affect our future growth. We intend to leverage our position in the cellular phone battery replacement market and to expand to the global cellular phone OEM market. To achieve this goal, we must first be qualified by international brand owners. We have started the process with Motorola, Nokia and other international brand owners. Since international brand owners have very stringent requirements, the qualification process can be lengthy and costly for new component suppliers such as China BAK. Our failure to obtain qualifications from international brand owners would have a material adverse effect on our ability to execute our business plan and achieve the level of growth we have planned. We may not be able to manage our expansion of operations effectively. We were established in August 2001 and have grown rapidly since. We are in the process of significantly expanding our business in order to meet the increasing demand for our products, as well as capture new market opportunities. As we continue to grow, we must continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, increase manufacturing capacity and output, and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. In order to fund our on-going operations and our future growth, we need to have sufficient internal sources of liquidity or access to additional financing from external sources. Furthermore, our management will be required to maintain and strengthen our relationships with our customers, suppliers and other third parties. As a result, our continued expansion has placed, and will continue to place, significant strains on our management personnel, systems and resources. We also will need to further strengthen our internal control and compliance functions to ensure that we will be able to comply with our legal and contractual obligations and minimize our operational and compliance risks. Our current and planned operations, personnel, systems, internal procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future growth. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, execute our business strategies or respond to competitive pressures. We may not be able to substantially increase our manufacturing output in order to maintain our cost competitiveness. We believe that our ability to provide cost-effective products is one of the most significant factors that contributed to our current success and will be essential for our future growth. We believe this is one of our competitive advantages over our Japanese and Korean competitors. In order to continue doing so, we will need to increase our manufacturing output to a level that will enable us to substantially reduce the cost of our products on a per unit basis through economies of scale. However, our ability to substantially increase our manufacturing output is subject to significant constraints and uncertainties, including: — the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase and prepay raw materials or to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; 26 — delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as increases in raw material prices and problems with equipment vendors; — delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; — diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and — failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to increase our manufacturing output because of any of the risks described above, we may be unable to maintain our competitive position or achieve the growth we expect. Moreover, even if we expand our manufacturing output, we may not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our products to support our increased production output. Maintaining our manufacturing operations requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain our operations would have a material adverse impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. We had capital expenditures of approximately $65.8 million and $41.4 million in fiscal years 2007 and 2006, respectively. We may incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and other events that impact our business. If we are unable or fail to adequately maintain our manufacturing capacity or quality control processes, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse impact on our market share and our ability to generate revenue. We are and will continue to be subject to rapidly declining average selling prices, which may harm our revenue and gross profits. Portable consumer electronics such as cellular phones and notebook computers are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to rapidly evolving technologies, industry standards and consumer preferences. As a result, manufacturers of these electronic devices expect us as suppliers to cut our costs and lower the price of our products in order to mitigate the negative impact on their own margins. We have reduced the price of our products in the past in order to meet market demand and expect to continue to face market-driven downward pricing pressures in the future. Our revenue and profitability will suffer if we are unable to offset any declines in our average selling prices by developing new or enhanced products with higher selling prices or gross profit margins, increasing our sales volumes or reducing our costs on a timely basis. We did not have effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2007 due to material weaknesses, which relate primarily to the disclosure and presentation of financial information under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, or U.S. GAAP. We have restated our consolidated financial statements three times. We can make no assurances that additional material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. Our failure to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements which could require us to restate financial statements, cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and have a negative effect on our stock price. In the course of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”), review of registration statements on Form SB-2 (File Nos. 333-122209 and 333-130247), we restated our consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2004, our consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income, our consolidated statements of cash flows and our consolidated statements of changes in shareholders’ equity for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004, and also extended or modified certain notes to these consolidated financial statements. This restatement arose out of accounting errors relating to (1) misclassification of cash transactions, (2) incorrect charging to our statements of income and comprehensive income for fiscal 2003 and 2004 for deficit attributable to 1,152,456 shares outstanding prior to our reverse acquisition on January 20, 2005, and (3) incorrect presentation of depreciation expenses in the statement of income and comprehensive income. The restatement resulted in an increase in net cash from financing activities, a decrease in the number of shares of common stock outstanding and a corresponding increase in paid-in capital, and a decrease in gross profit for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2004 by $1,635,971, or approximately 11%. 27 In the course of the SEC review of the registration statements referred to above, we determined that beginning with fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2005, we would no longer be considered a “small business issuer.” We restated our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005, our consolidated statement of income and comprehensive income and our consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended December 31, 2005 to reflect the prospective adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 123 (Revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment,” or SFAS 123R, relating to the accounting for stock-based compensation commencing in the first quarter of our fiscal year ending September 30, 2006. Pursuant to the restatement, we incurred an incremental share-based compensation expense of $711,512 in the quarter ended December 31, 2005. This restatement resulted in, among other things, a decrease in gross profit and net income per share for the first quarter of our fiscal year 2006. As reported in the current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 4, 2006, we changed our independent registered public accounting firm from Schwartz Levitsky Feldman LLP to KPMG. We engaged KPMG on May 15, 2006 to audit our financial statements for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005. During the course of the audit, KPMG notified our accounting staff of misstatements in our previously reported financial statements for the fiscal years ended September 30, 2003, 2004 and 2005 that required correction relating to: (1) the overstatement of interest expense because of an error in the application of accounting principles relating to interest capitalization, and the related understatement of property, plant and equipment, construction in progress and depreciation expenses; (2) the incorrect charging to shareholders’ equity for fiscal year 2005 of the provision for staff and workers’ bonus and welfare fund instead of charging it to the statements of income and comprehensive income; (3) the overstatement of the provision for contributions to a social insurance plan because of a misinterpretation of the applicable PRC laws; (4) the understatement of our accumulated foreign-currency translation adjustment for fiscal 2005 included in comprehensive income and overstatement of our additional paid-in capital due to a calculation error during consolidation; (5) other misstatements identified, which were individually not material, including amounts related to amortization of lease prepayments, prepayments and other receivables, accrued expenses and other payables, cost of revenues, general and administrative expenses, finance costs, other expenses, and certain cash flow items, and (6) the consequential understatements or overstatements of income tax expenses. The net restatement adjustments resulted in an increase in our net income and earnings per share in the relevant periods. For more detailed descriptions, see Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006 (the “2006 Form 10-K”). Our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of September 30, 2006, because of the material weaknesses that had been identified and described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” of the 2006 Form 10-K. Management believes that some appropriate measures have been implemented to remediate these weaknesses during the fiscal year 2007. Investors are directed to Item 9A of the 2006 Form 10-K for the description of these weaknesses. As disclosed in our current report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on April 3, 2007, as amended on April 11, 2007 and April 17, 2007, on March 28, 2007 we dismissed KPMG as our independent registered public accounting firm and appointed PKF as our independent registered public accounting firm, in each case effective April 1, 2007. Our management has carried out an evaluation, with the participation and under the supervision of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of September 30, 2007 covered by Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. We have identified the following material weaknesses as of September 30, 2007: 1. Entity Level Material Weakness - Control Environment We did not maintain effective controls over the financial reporting processes due to an insufficient complement of personnel with a level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of U.S. GAAP commensurate with our financial requirements. Additionally, our senior management lacked an adequate level of accounting knowledge, experience and training in the application of U.S. GAAP, and did not implement adequate and proper supervisory review to ensure the consolidated financial statements were prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and with SEC requirements. 28 2. Process Level Material Weakness - Procedures and transactions We did not maintain adequate procedures to properly account for deferred taxes under U.S. GAAP. Specifically, we did not have effective controls and procedures over the identification and measurement of differences between the respective tax and financial reporting bases of certain assets and liabilities and the determination of the applicable income tax rate to ensure that deferred taxes were accurately presented in our consolidated financial statements. This material weakness resulted in a material adjustment to our preliminary consolidated financial statements as of September 30, 2007. The need for this adjustment was initially identified by our external auditor and subsequently implemented by our management. See Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures” for a more detailed discussion of these material weaknesses. We can make no assurances that additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in additional significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Any such failure could adversely affect the results of periodic management evaluations and annual auditor attestation reports regarding the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting that are required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. The existence of a material weakness could result in errors in our financial statements that could result in another restatement of financial statements, cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations and cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. We are subject to the reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on such companies’ internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports that contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. In addition, pursuant to Auditing Standard No. 2, which is in effect for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting as well as the operating effectiveness of the company’s internal controls. These requirements first applied to us in connection with the Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2006. Management’s report on internal control over financial reporting is set out in Item 9A “Controls and Procedures.” of the 2006 Form 10-K. Management has determined that, as of the fiscal year ended September 30, 2007, the two material weaknesses as described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures,” resulted from material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. To remediate these material weaknesses, we have taken and will continue to take a number of remediation measures, as described in Item 9A. “Controls and Procedures.” However, we can make no assurances that we can fully remediate all our material weaknesses or address additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies that may subsequently arise by the year end date of fiscal year 2008, so that our management will be able to conclude that we will have effective internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2008. If we cannot implement the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our registered independent public accounting firm may not be able to provide a written attestation as to the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, in which event, our registered independent public accounting firm may issue a disclaimer of their audit opinion. Our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting may result in sanctions or investigations by regulatory authorities, such as the SEC, and loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 29 We became a public company through our acquisition by a non-operating public shell company, where we were the accounting acquirer and assumed all liabilities of our predecessor entity. Our January 2005 share exchange with Medina Coffee, Inc. was accounted for as a reverse acquisition in which Shenzhen BAK was deemed to be the accounting acquirer and Medina Coffee, which was originally incorporated in 1999, was deemed to be the legal acquirer. Accordingly, we have assumed all the liabilities of Medina Coffee. Medina Coffee was incorporated for the purposes of engaging in the retail coffee business and at the time of the share exchange, Medina Coffee had no substantial operations, assets or liabilities. We cannot guarantee that we will not become subject to any liabilities related to the conduct by Medina Coffee of its business prior to its acquisition by us that may subsequently arise. We are dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 39.9%, 42.3% and 37.1% of our revenues in the years ended September 30, 2005, 2006, and 2007, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to contribute to a significant portion of our sales in the near future. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these top customers is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. If we fail to sell our products to one or more of these top customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, or if we fail to develop additional major customers, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. A small number of prismatic cell customers and A123Systems have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. In the year ended September 30, 2007, sales to A123Systems accounted for 14% of our revenues. In the same period, our top five customers in aggregate contributed to approximately 37.1% of our revenues. As we expand our product portfolio and target new market segments, our customer composition as well as the identity and concentration of our top customers are expected to change from period to period. Our agreement with A123Systems, as amended on August 18, 2005, terminated in accordance with its terms on August 30, 2007. If we fail to find alternative sources of demand for our lithium-phosphate cells, our revenue may be substantially impacted. In addition, according to the terms set out in one of our credit facility agreements, if our monthly revenue for any given month is 10% lower than the monthly revenue for the corresponding month of the preceding year, the outstanding loans under this credit facility, including interests and penalties thereunder, will accelerate and become immediately due and payable. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, which may result in significant uncertainties and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the term of our sales contracts with our customers is typically one year. Furthermore, these contracts leave certain major terms such as price and quantity of products open to be determined in each purchase order. These contracts also allow parties to re-adjust the contract price for substantial changes in market conditions. As a result, if our customers hold stronger bargaining power than us or the market conditions are in their favor, we may not be able to enjoy the price downside protection or upside gain. Furthermore, our customers may decide not to continue placing purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods. As a result, our results of operations may vary from period to period and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We may not be able to accurately plan our production based on our sales contracts, which may result in excess product inventory or product shortages. Our sales contracts typically provide for a non-binding, three-month forecast on the quantity of products that our customers may purchase from us. We typically have only a 15-day lead time to manufacture products to meet our customers’ requirements once our customers place orders with us. To meet the short delivery deadline, we generally make significant decisions on our production level and timing, procurement, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resources requirements based on our estimate in light of this forecast, our past dealings with such customers, market conditions and other relevant factors. Our customers’ final purchase orders may not be consistent with our estimates. If the final purchase orders substantially differ from our estimates, we may have excess product inventory or product shortages. Excess product inventory could result in unprofitable sales or write-offs as our products are susceptible to obsolescence and price declines. Producing additional products to make up for any product shortages within a short time frame may be difficult, making us unable to fill out the purchase orders. In either case, our results of operation would fluctuate from period to period. 30 We may face impairment charges if economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions substantially change. Assessment of the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets is an integral part of our normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of long-lived assets is dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects our best estimates at a particular point in time, which may vary from testing date to testing date. The economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected product selling prices and materials costs, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on both the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. Future changes in the economic environment and the economic outlook for the assets being evaluated could also result in impairment charges. Any significant asset impairments would adversely impact our financial results. We depend on third parties to supply key raw materials to us. Failure to obtain sufficient supply of these raw materials in a timely fashion and at reasonable costs could significantly delay our production and shipments, which would cause us to breach our sales contracts with our customers. We purchase from Chinese domestic suppliers certain key raw materials such as electrolytes, electrode materials and import separators, a key component of battery cells from foreign countries. We purchase raw materials on the basis of purchase orders. In the absence of firm and long-term contracts, we may not be able to obtain sufficient supply of these raw materials from our existing suppliers or alternates in a timely fashion or at a reasonable cost. Our failure to secure sufficient supply of key raw materials in a timely fashion would result in a significant delay in our production and shipments, which may cause us to breach our sales contracts with our customers. Furthermore, failure to obtain sufficient supply of these raw materials at a reasonable cost could also harm our revenue and gross profit margins. Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, particularly lithium cobalt dioxide, could increase our costs or cause delays in shipments, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly lithium cobalt dioxide, the primary cost component of our battery products, or other product parts or components. Lithium cobalt dioxide mainly consists of cobalt. Cobalt market prices averaged $17.9 per pound in fiscal year 2005, $16.3 per pound in fiscal year 2006 and $27.2 per pound in fiscal year 2007. Cobalt traded as high as $32.0 per pound on March 30, 2007. The increase in cobalt’s market price has negatively impacted our financial results in recent years. We historically have not been able to fully offset the effects of higher costs of raw materials through price increases to customers or by way of productivity improvements. A significant increase in the price of one or more raw materials, parts or components or the inability to successfully implement price increases / surcharges to mitigate such cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We face intense competition from other battery cell manufacturers, many of which have significantly greater resources. The market for battery cells used for portable electronic devices such as cellular phones is intensely competitive and is characterized by frequent technological changes and evolving industry standards. We expect competition to become more intense. Increased competition may result in decline in average selling prices, causing a decrease in gross profit margins. We have faced and will continue to face competition from manufacturers of traditional rechargeable battery cells, such as nickel-cadmium batteries, from manufacturers of rechargeable battery cells of more recent technologies, such as nickel-metal hydride and liquid electrolyte, other manufacturers of lithium-ion battery cells, as well as from companies engaged in the development of batteries incorporating new technologies. Other manufacturers of lithium-ion battery cells currently include Sanyo Electric Co., Sony Corporation, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic), GS Group, NEC Corporation, Hitachi Ltd., LG Chemical Ltd., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., BYD Co. Ltd., Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint Stock Co., Ltd., Henan Huanyu Group and Harbin Coslight Technology International Group Co., Ltd. 31 Many of these existing competitors have greater financial, personnel, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and evolving industry standards. Many of our competitors are developing a variety of battery technologies, such as lithium polymer and fuel cell batteries, which are expected to compete with our existing product line. Other companies undertaking R&D activities of solid-polymer lithium-ion batteries have developed prototypes and are constructing commercial scale production facilities. It is possible that our competitors will be able to introduce new products with more desirable features than ours and their new products will gain market acceptance. If our competitors successfully do so, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position and our future success would be materially and adversely affected. We depend on third-party battery pack manufacturers to incorporate our products into battery packs to make batteries ready for use in various portable consumer electronics. If these factories fail to properly assemble our products and battery packs, resulting in defective battery cells, our reputation could be severely damaged and our sales could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, our battery technology may only be commercially viable as a component of other companies' products, and these companies may choose not to include our systems in their products. We manufacture only battery cells, the key component of a battery. Battery cells need to be incorporated into battery packs to constitute batteries ready for use in various portable consumer electronics. Some of our end application customers may ask us to designate certain third-party battery pack manufacturers to assemble our products into batteries. While assembly is a fairly straightforward process as it does not involve complex technologies, the batteries could malfunction unless assembled properly. If the battery pack manufacturers with whom we cooperate fail to assemble batteries properly and cause a large number of batteries to be defective due to reasons unrelated to the quality of our products, our reputation could be severely damaged. In addition, if these battery pack manufacturers are unable to assemble a sufficient number of batteries to meet the requirements of our end application customers and we cannot timely find qualified alternative battery pack manufacturers, our sales could be materially and adversely affected. To be commercially viable, our batteries must be integrated in most cases into products manufactured by other companies. These other companies may not be able to manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, may choose not to use our technology. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by companies using our products could adversely affect the market for our products and our financial results. Any perceived problem while conducting demonstrations of our batteries could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products, which could impede the development of our business. We have demonstrated our battery technology in the past and we plan to conduct additional demonstrations in public and in private in the future. We also expect our customers to conduct field testing and pilot programs to evaluate products which utilize our technology. Although to date we have not experienced significant problems in demonstration or testing, future demonstrations and testing could encounter problems for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly and the failure to maintain and service the test systems properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, field test programs, by their nature, involve delays and modifications. Any problem or perceived problem with our field tests could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products, which could impede the development of our business. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lost their services. Our future success heavily depends on the continued service of our senior executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of our chief executive officer and president, Mr. Xiangqian Li, and our chief operating officer and chief technical officer, Dr. Huanyu Mao. If one or more of our senior executives are unable or unwilling to continue to work for us in their present positions, we may have to spend a considerable amount of time and resources searching, recruiting and integrating the replacements into our operations, which would substantially divert management’s attention from our business and severely disrupt our business. This may also adversely affect our ability to execute our business strategy. Moreover, if any of our senior executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition and confidentiality clauses. However, if any dispute arises between our executive officers and the Company, it is hard to predict the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. 32 The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and key personnel. Because of the highly specialized, technical nature of our business, we must attract, train and retain a sizable workforce comprising highly skilled employees and other key personnel. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may have to pay higher salaries and wages and provide greater benefits in order to attract and retain highly skilled employees or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the requirements of our growing business. Our failure to attract, train or retain highly skilled employees and other key personnel in numbers that are sufficient to satisfy our needs would materially and adversely affect our business. Manufacturing or use of our products may cause accidents, which could result in significant production interruption, delay or claims for substantial damages. Due to the high energy density inherent in lithium-based batteries, our batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. Although we incorporate safety procedures in the research, development, manufacture and transportation of batteries that are designed to minimize safety risks, the manufacture or use of our products may still cause accidents. Any accident, whether occurring at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of our products, may result in significant production interruption, delays or claims for substantial damages caused by personal injuries or property damages. We extend relatively long payment terms to our customers. As is customary in the industry in the PRC, we extend relatively long payment terms and provide generous return policies to our customers. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations out of our operating cash flow. In addition, although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. Our customers often place large orders for products, requiring fast delivery, which impacts our working capital. If our customers do not incorporate our products into their products and sell them in a timely fashion, for example, due to excess inventories, sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. Our customers’ failure to pay may force us to defer or delay further product orders, which may adversely affect our cash flows, sales or income in subsequent periods. We manufacture and market lithium-based battery cells only. If a viable substitute product or chemistry emerges and gains market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We manufacture and market lithium-based battery cells only. As we believe that the market for lithium-based batteries has good growth potential, we have focused our R&D activities on exploring new chemistry and formula to enhance our product quality and features while reducing cost. Some of our competitors are conducting R&D on alternative battery technologies, such as fuel cells. If any viable substitute product emerges and gains market acceptance because it has more enhanced features, more power, more attractive pricing, or better reliability, the market demand for our products may be reduced, and accordingly our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. 33 We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In the years ended September 30, 2006 and 2007, we derived 32.8% and 27.6% respectively of our sales from outside the PRC. The marketing, international distribution and sale of our products expose us to a number of risks, including: — fluctuations in currency exchange rates; — difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors that are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; — increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; — difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; — inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and — trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. We rely on third parties whose operations are outside our control. We rely on arrangements with third-party shippers and carriers such as independent shipping companies for timely delivery of our products to our customers. As a result, we may be subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor strikes, inclement weather, natural disasters and rapidly increasing fuel costs. If the services of any of these third parties become unsatisfactory, we may experience delays in meeting our customers' product demands and we may not be able to find a suitable replacement on a timely basis or on commercially reasonable terms. Any failure to deliver products to our customers in a timely and accurate manner may damage our reputation and could cause us to lose customers. We also utilize third party distributors and manufacturer's representatives to sell, install and service certain of our products. While we are selective in whom we choose to represent us, it is difficult for us to ensure that our distributors and manufacturer's representatives consistently act in accordance with the standards we set for them. To the extent any of our end-customers have negative experiences with any of our distributors or manufacturer's representatives; it could reflect poorly on us and damage our reputation, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. Defects in our products could result in a loss of customers and decrease in revenue, unexpected expenses and a loss of market share. We have purchased certain product liability insurance from some PRC-based insurance companies to provide against any claims against us based on our product quality. If any of our products is found to have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we will be required to accept returns, provide replacement, provide refund, or pay damages. As our insurance policy imposes a ceiling for maximum coverage and high deductibles, we may not be able to obtain from our insurance policy an amount enough to compensate our customers for damages they suffered attributable to the quality of our products. Moreover, as our insurance policy also excludes certain types of claims from its coverage and if any of our customers’ claims against us falls into those exclusions, we would not receive any amount from our insurance policy at all. In either case, we may still be required to incur substantial amounts to indemnify our customers in respect of their product quality claims against us, which would materially and adversely affect the results of our operations and severely damage our reputation. 34 We are subject to a patent infringement lawsuit in the United States involving our production of battery cells for A123Systems for use in cordless power tools. If the court holds against us, we may be required to pay monetary damages, terminate our production of the cells, or pay royalties to continue the production. This would in turn materially adversely affect our ability to execute our growth strategy, revenues and business prospects. On September 12, 2006, Hydro-Quebec, a Canadian company, and the Board of Regents of the University of Texas System brought a federal patent infringement suit in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas against us. The plaintiffs alleged that by manufacturing rechargeable lithium cells for A123Systems for use in DeWalt 36-volt cordless power tools manufactured by Black & Decker, we have infringed two U.S. patents owned by and exclusively licensed to the plaintiffs. The plaintiffs seek injunctive relief and damages in an unspecified amount. A123Systems, Black & Decker Corporation and Black & Decker (U.S.) Inc. have also been named as co-defendants in this lawsuit. The court has not ruled on this lawsuit. We understand that this lawsuit is a countersuit against A123Systems, which filed a claim against Hydro-Quebec in the United States District Court of Massachusetts in April 2006. In that suit, A123Systems sought declaratory relief that the two said U.S. patents are invalid and that A123Systems is not infringing either of these two patents. If the court holds against us, we may be required to pay plaintiffs substantial monetary damages, and be prohibited from further production of cells for A123Systems to be used in Black & Decker power tools or be required to pay royalties to engage in such production. Accordingly, our revenues and business prospects could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, regardless of the final outcome of the lawsuit, we may incur substantial costs and our management resource and attention to our business would be diverted. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause our loss of significant rights and inability to continue providing our existing product offerings. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to lithium-ion battery technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly expensive and time-consuming. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technologies or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available at acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Protracted litigation could result in our customers, or potential customers, deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Parties making the infringement claim may also obtain an injunction that can prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing contents. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Other future litigation could impact our financial results and condition. Our business, results of operations and financial condition could be affected by other significant future litigation or claims adverse to us. Types of potential litigation cases include: product liability, contract, employment-related, labor relations, personal injury or property damage, intellectual property, stockholder claims and claims arising from any injury or damage to persons, property or the environment from hazardous substances used, generated or disposed of in the conduct of our business (or that of a predecessor to the extent we are not indemnified for those liabilities). We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or others may challenge our intellectual property rights, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of September 30, 2007, we owned 195 registered patents in China and had 305 pending patent applications in China. We had 46 registered trademarks in China that cover various categories of goods and services. Some of our trademarks, such as BAK, are also registered trademarks in the United States, European Union, Korea, Russia, Taiwan and Hong Kong. We can make no assurances that all the pending patent applications will result in issue of patents or, if issued, that it will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. Nor can we make any assurances that any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights that we have obtained may not be challenged by third parties. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lax, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us any royalties. Though we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. 35 We do not hold the land use right for our BAK Industrial Park where our facilities are located, nor did we obtain the required construction and zoning permits for our manufacturing facilities and other related facilities situated on the land. We currently do not hold the land use right to the tract of property on which we have constructed our new manufacturing facilities and other related facilities. Under relevant PRC laws and regulations, because we did not have the land use right for the underlying land, we were not eligible to apply for the required construction or zoning permits for the facilities we later built on the land, including our manufacturing facilities, and therefore we are not deemed to be the rightful owner for all these facilities. While we have been actively negotiating with the Shenzhen municipal government with a view to resolving this issue, we may not be able to purchase the land use right to the underlying land from the Shenzhen municipal government on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Even if we manage to acquire the land use right, we can make no assurances that we will not be subject to any fine or other penalty for our past non-compliance with construction and zoning requirements. If we are unsuccessful in acquiring the land use right, we could be forced to halt our production, vacate our current premises, and lose all of our facilities situated on the land without any compensation, which would adversely and materially affect our business, results of operations and our financial condition. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and our failure to comply with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and a material adverse effect on our business. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various PRC environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid waste and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the PRC environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the PRC government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Failure to comply with PRC environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. To the extent we ship our products outside of the PRC, or to the extent our products are used in products sold outside of the PRC, they may be affected by the following: The transportation of non-rechargeable and rechargeable lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO), and corresponding International Air Transport Association (IATA), Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code (IMDG), and in the PRC by General Administration of Civil Aviation of China and Maritime Safety Administration of People’s Republic of China. These regulations are based on the United Nations (UN) Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. New regulations that pertain to all lithium battery manufacturers went into effect in 2003 and 2004, and additional regulations will go into effect in 2009. The regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We comply with all current PRC and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and will comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we were unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have significant short-term debt obligations, which mature in less than one year. Failure to extend those maturities of, or to refinance, that debt could result in defaults, and in certain instances, foreclosures on our assets. Moreover, we may be unable to obtain financing to fund ongoing operations and future growth. At September 30, 2007, we had $89.9 million of short-term loans and $23.8 million of bills payable maturing in less than one year, a substantial portion of which is secured by certain of our assets that amounted to $42.9 million. Our inventory, machinery and equipment worth $38.3 million secured the short-term bank loans, and our deposits worth $4.6 million secured the bills payable. Failure to obtain extensions of the maturity dates of, or to refinance, these obligations or to obtain additional equity financing to meet these debt obligations would result in an event of default with respect to such obligations and could result in the foreclosure on the collateral. The sale of such collateral at foreclosure would significantly disrupt our ability to produce products for our customers in the quantities required by customer orders or deliver products in a timely fashion, which could significantly lower our revenues and profitability. We may be able to refinance or obtain extensions of the maturities of all or some of such debt only on terms that significantly restrict our ability to operate, including terms that place additional limitations on our ability to incur other indebtedness, to pay dividends, to use our assets as collateral for other financing, to sell assets or to make acquisitions or enter into other transactions. Such restrictions may adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or to engage in other business activities. If we finance the repayment of our outstanding indebtedness by issuing additional equity or convertible debt securities, such issuances could result in substantial dilution to our stockholders. 36 While we believe that our revenue growth projections and our ongoing cost controls will allow us to generate cash and achieve profitability in the foreseeable future, there is no assurance as to when or if we will be able to achieve our projections. Our future cash flows from operations, combined with our accessibility to cash and credit, may not be sufficient to allow us to finance ongoing operations or to make required investments for future growth. We may need to seek additional credit or access capital markets for additional funds. There is no assurance that we would be successful in this regard. We have limited insurance coverage against damages or loss we might suffer. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many developed countries. We do not carry business interruption insurance and therefore any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial damages or losses to us. In addition, there are certain types of losses (such as losses from forces of nature) that are generally not insured because either they are uninsurable or insurance cannot be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. Further, we have not been able to insure any of our manufacturing facilities since we have not yet received the applicable land use rights certificate. If we were to suffer any losses or damages to our manufacturing facilities, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in the political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. All of our business operations are conducted in China and a significant portion of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: — the amount of government involvement; — the level of development; — the growth rate; — the control of foreign exchange; and — the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past 20 years, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall Chinese economy, but also may have a negative effect on us. We cannot predict the future direction of economic reforms or the effects such measures may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 37 Any adverse change in economic conditions, in government policies or in laws and regulations in China could have a material adverse effect on overall economic growth, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial amount of our materials sourcing originates in China. We may be unable to enforce our legal rights due to policies regarding the regulation of foreign investments in China as well as other aspects of the Chinese legal system. Unlike the common law system prevalent in the United States, the PRC’s legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes, in which system decided legal cases have little value as precedents. The PRC does not have a well-developed, consolidated body of laws governing foreign investment enterprises. As a result, the administration of laws and regulations by government agencies are subject to considerable discretion and variation on the part of the PRC government, including its courts, and may be subject to influence by external forces unrelated to the legal merits of a particular matter. China’s regulations and policies with respect to foreign investments are evolving. Definitive regulations and policies with respect to such matters as the permissible percentage of foreign investment and permissible rates of equity returns have not yet been published. As a result, we may not be aware of any violations of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. Statements regarding these evolving policies have been conflicting and any such policies, as administered, are likely to be subject to broad interpretation and discretion and to be modified, perhaps on a case-by-case basis. The uncertainties regarding such regulations and policies present risks that may affect our ability to achieve our business objectives. If we are unable to enforce any legal rights we may have under our contracts or otherwise, our ability to compete with other companies in our industry could be materially and negatively affected. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention. The relative inexperience of China's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. It may also be difficult to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction in China. We currently enjoy a reduced tax rate and other government incentives, and the loss of or reduction in these benefits may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. According to relevant PRC laws and regulations, an enterprise located in Shenzhen, including the district where we are currently located, is subject to a 15% enterprise income tax. According to PRC laws and regulations on foreign invested enterprises, a foreign invested manufacturing enterprise is entitled to, starting from its first profitable year, a two-year exemption from its enterprise income tax followed by a three-year 50% reduction in its enterprise income tax rate. Our PRC subsidiaries, Shenzhen BAK and BAK Electronics, are each entitled to a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax from its first profitable year, and a reduced enterprise income tax rate of 7.5% for the following three years. As such, for the first two years ended December 31, 2003, Shenzhen BAK was exempted from any enterprise income tax. Between January 1, 2004 and December 31, 2006, Shenzhen BAK was subject to the enterprise income tax rate of 7.5%. BAK Electronics, established in August 2005, is eligible for the same preferential tax treatment that is applicable to Shenzhen BAK, and is currently in its tax holiday and fully exempt from any enterprise income tax. BAK Tianjin is currently exempt from any enterprise income tax due to cumulative tax losses. In addition, due to the additional capital invested in Shenzhen BAK in both 2005 and 2006, Shenzhen BAK was granted a preferential income tax rate of 3.309%, 3.82% and 6.12% in calendar years 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. However, the PRC government authorities could reduce or eliminate these incentives at any time in the future. There have been preliminary high-level discussions within the PRC on leveling the playing field between foreign invested enterprises and PRC domestic enterprises by phasing out preferential tax rates applicable to foreign invested enterprises. We cannot predict whether and when we may lose, in whole or in part, the preferential tax treatment and other incentives we have now. If we lose part or all of these preferential treatments, we would be subject to a normal enterprise tax rate. Any loss of or reduction in the preferential tax treatments we have received could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 38 We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. We are a holding company, and we conduct all of our operations through our three subsidiaries in PRC: Shenzhen BAK, BAK Electronics and BAK Tianjin, each a limited liability company established in China. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. Current regulations in the PRC permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. According to the articles of association of our PRC subsidiaries, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on the PRC accounting standards and regulations each year to its enterprise development reserve, until the balance in the reserve reaches 50% of the registered capital of the company. Funds in the reserve are not distributable to us in forms of cash dividends, loans or advances. In addition, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn will adversely affect our available cash. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect our ability to satisfy our non-RMB obligations. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of the RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current corporate structure, our income is primarily derived from dividend payments from our PRC subsidiaries. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our stockholders. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may result in foreign currency translation losses or in increased costs to us. The value of the RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed band against a basket of certain foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an approximately 9.3% appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar between July 21, 2005 and September 30, 2007. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the PRC government to adopt an even more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further and more significant appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in the RMB, and a significant portion of our financial assets are also denominated in RMB. We rely entirely on dividends and other fees paid to us by our subsidiaries in China. Any significant revaluation of the RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on common stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB-denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into the RMB for such purposes. An appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar would also result in foreign currency translation losses for financial reporting purposes when we translate our U.S. dollar denominated financial assets into the RMB, as the RMB is our reporting currency. 39 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose vehicle, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure also could result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. We believe our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 have registered with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that their existing registrations have fully complied with, and that they have made all necessary amendments to their registration to fully comply with, all applicable registrations or approvals required by Circular 75. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. All of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our current directors and officers are nationals or residents of China. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. 40 An outbreak of a pandemic avian influenza, SARS or other contagious disease may have an adverse effect on the economies of certain Asian countries and may adversely affect our results of operations. During the past four years, large parts of Asia experienced unprecedented outbreaks of avian influenza caused by the H5N1 virus which, according to a report of the World Health Organization, or WHO, in 2004, “moved the world closer than any time since 1968 to an influenza pandemic with high morbidity, excess mortality and social and economic disruption.” Currently, no fully effective avian flu vaccines have been developed and there is evidence that the H5N1 virus is evolving and an effective vaccine may not be discovered in time to protect against the potential avian flu pandemic. In the first half of 2003, certain countries in Asia experienced an outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia, which seriously interrupted the economic activities and the demand for goods plummeted in the affected regions. An outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease or the measures taken by the governments of affected countries against such potential outbreaks, may seriously interrupt our production operations or those of our suppliers and customers, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The perception that an outbreak of avian flu, SARS or other contagious disease may occur again may also have an adverse effect on the economic conditions of countries in Asia. Our production facilities are subject to risks of power shortages. Many cities and provinces in the PRC have suffered serious power shortages since the second quarter of 2004. Many of the regional grids do not have sufficient power generating capacity to fully satisfy the increased demand for electricity driven by continual economic growth and persistent hot weather. Local governments have recently required local factories to temporarily shut down their operations or reduce their daily operational hours in order to reduce local power consumption levels. To date, our operations have not been affected by those administrative measures. However, there is a risk that our operations may be affected by those administrative measures in the future, thereby causing material production disruption and delay in delivery schedule. In such event, our business, results of operation and financial conditions could be materially adversely affected. We do not have any back-up power generation system. Although we have not experienced any power outages in the past, we may be adversely affected by any power outages in the future. Implementation of the PRC’s new corporate income tax law may adversely affect us. On March 16, 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC determined to adopt a new corporate income tax law in its fifth plenary session. The new corporate income tax law unifies the application scope, tax rate, tax deduction and preferential policy for both domestic and foreign-invested enterprises. The new corporate income tax law will be effective on January 1, 2008. According to the new corporate income tax law, the applicable income tax rate for our operating subsidiaries is subject to change. As implementation details have not yet been announced, we cannot be sure of the potential impact of this new corporate income tax law on our financial position and operating results. Changes in PRC property rights law may affect our interests in our properties. The new PRC Law on Property Rights was approved by the Fifth Session of the Tenth National People's Congress on March 16, 2007, and went into effect on October 1, 2007. The Property Rights Law is the first piece of Mainland PRC legislation that comprehensively regulates the different types of rights which can be created or acquired over tangible property. We are currently evaluating the impact of the Property Rights Law. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. Only recently has China permitted provincial and local economic autonomy and private economic activities. The Chinese government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use rights, property and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. 41 Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. Future inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion and highly fluctuating rates of inflation. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 20.7% and as low as -2.2%. These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to restrict the availability of credit or regulate growth and contain inflation. High inflation may in the future cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit and/or prices, or to take other action, which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. We may be unable to complete a business combination transaction efficiently or on favorable terms due to complicated merger and acquisition regulations implemented on September 8, 2006. On September 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce, or “MOFCOM,” together with several other government agencies, promulgated a comprehensive set of regulations governing the approval process by which a Chinese company may participate in an acquisition of its assets or its equity interests and by which a Chinese company may obtain public trading of its securities on a securities exchange outside of the PRC. Depending on the structure of the transaction, these regulations will require the Chinese parties to make a series of applications and supplemental applications to the governmental agencies. In some instances, the application process may require the presentation of economic data concerning a transaction, including appraisals of the target business and evaluations of the acquirer, which are designed to allow the government to assess the transaction. Governmental approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the governmental agencies. Compliance with the new regulations is likely to be more time-consuming and expensive than in the past and the government now can exert more control over the combination of two businesses. Accordingly, due to these new regulations, our ability to engage in business combination transactions has become significantly more complicated, time-consuming and expensive and we may not be able to negotiate a transaction that is acceptable to our stockholders or sufficiently protect their interests in a transaction. The new regulations allow PRC government agencies to assess the economic terms of a business combination transaction. Parties to a business combination transaction may have to submit to MOFCOM and the other government agencies an appraisal report, an evaluation report and the acquisition agreement, all of which form part of the application for approval, depending on the structure of the transaction. The regulations also prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the Chinese business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulations also limit our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Therefore, such regulations may impede our ability to negotiate and complete a business combination transaction on financial terms, which satisfy our investors and protect our stockholders’ economic interests and we may not be able to negotiate a business combination transaction on terms favorable to our stockholders. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: — the lack of depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; 42 — actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; — announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; — changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; — market conditions in our industry; — changes in operations or market valuations of other companies in our industry; — our sales of common stock; — investor perceptions of us and our business; — changes in the estimates of the future size and growth rate of our markets; — market conditions in industries of our customers; — announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions; — strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; — recruitment or departures of key personnel; — potential litigation; — any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; and — the overall economy, geopolitical events, terrorist activities, or threats of terrorism. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. For example, the trading price of our common stock could decline in reaction to events that negatively affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us at all. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be a target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. Our directors and executive officers, collectively, own approximately 39.7% of our outstanding common stock and may be able to control our management and affairs. As of September 30, 2007, Mr. Xiangqian Li, our president and chief executive officer and chairman of our board, and our other executive officers and directors beneficially owned an aggregate of 39.7% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our directors and executive officers, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidation, and sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, even if such a change of control would benefit our stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could entrench our board of directors and prevent a change in control. Our articles of incorporation provide that at the request of at least 10% of our shares entitled to vote, we need to call a special meeting of stockholders. In addition, our bylaws (i) allow vacancies in the board of directors to be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, (ii) provide that no contract or transaction between us and one or more of our directors or officers is void if certain criteria are met, and (iii) provide that our bylaws may be amended or appealed at any meeting of the board of directors at which a quorum is present, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at such meeting. Collectively, these provisions may have the effect of entrenching our existing board members, discouraging or preventing a transaction including a change in control transaction where such transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders. 43 We are obligated to indemnify our officers and directors for certain losses they suffer. To the fullest extent permitted by Chapter 78 of the Nevada Revised Statues, we may, if and to the extent authorized by our board of directors, indemnify our officers and any other persons who we have power to indemnify against liability, reasonable expense or other matter whatsoever. If we are required to indemnify any persons under this policy, we may have to pay indemnity in a substantial amount which we may be unable to recover at all. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 