ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS We have significant short-term debt obligations, which mature in less than one year. Failure to repay these debts upon maturity will result in defaults and foreclosures on our assets, which could force us to cease a majority part of our operation. Our independent registered auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As of September 30, 2013, we had short-term bank loans of $151.4 million and bills payable of $41.4 million, a substantial portion of which is secured by almost all of our assets, including, but not limited to, our ownership of major subsidiaries, land use rights and property rights of our industrial parks in Shenzhen and Tianjin and Research & Development Centre in Shenzhen, as well as our machinery and equipment, trade accounts receivable and inventory. We also had other short-term loans from unrelated third parties of $28.3 million. Our inventory, machinery and equipment, trade accounts receivables and land use right and properties with a net book value worth approximately $216.9 million and our ownership of major subsidiaries secured the short-term bank loans, and our deposits worth $8.1 million secured certain bills payable and advance from an unrelated third party. Because we defaulted on certain loans from Bank of China, we are experiencing and, we believe, will continue to experience significant difficulties to renew credit facility or refinance loans from banks. As a result, failure to obtain sufficient funds from other sources to repay matured or to be matured bank loans would result in an event of default with respect to our repayment obligations and would result in the foreclosure on the collateral. The sale of such collateral at foreclosure could force us to cease a majority part of our operation and significantly disrupt our ability to produce products for our customers. Our audited consolidated financial statements included in this report include an explanatory paragraph that indicates that they were prepared assuming that we would continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included with this report, we had net liabilities, a working capital deficiency, accumulated deficit from recurring net losses incurred for the current and prior years as of September 30, 2013 and significant short-term debt obligations maturing in less than one year. These conditions raise substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. As disclosed under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, we have received a total of RMB 520 million (approximately $85 million) from a potential buyer to repay some of our maturing bank loans in exchange for our pledging of equity interest in our subsidiaries to the potential buyer. We are also in the process of negotiating with the potential buyer on the transfer of our ownership of BAK International and its subsidiaries (including all their assets and liabilities). There is no guarantee that such transaction will be completed successfully in a timely manner. If we fail to obtain funds from other parities to repay our remaining bank loans or sell our ownership of BAK International and its subsidiaries with liabilities of these entities to the potential buyer timely, we will be in default and as a result, our pledged assets could be foreclosed by the lenders. We are primarily dependent on sales of lithium-ion battery cells for the cellular phone battery market. A reduction in the demand for lithium-ion battery cells that we sell for this market would cause our overall revenue to decline. 13 We have derived a major portion of revenues to date from sales of our lithium-ion battery cells for the cellular phone battery market. While we have diversified our revenue sources by expanding to the global cellular phone OEM market, portable electronic device markets, notebook computers and high-power electrical appliance markets, we expect that sales of battery cells used for the cellular phone battery market will continue to comprise a significant portion of our revenues in the near future. Accordingly, any decrease in the demand for our battery cells in the cellular phone battery market resulting from success of competing products, slower than expected growth of sales in the cellular phone battery market or other adverse developments relating to the cellular phone battery market may materially and adversely affect our business and cause our overall revenue to decline. During the fiscal year ended September 30, 2013, net revenues from our prismatic cells sold for the cellular phone battery market were $28.8 million, or $47.3 million lower than net revenues from prismatic cells sold for the cellular phone battery market for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2012 of $76.1 million. The decline of demand for cellular phone batteries was one of the primary reasons for the decline in revenue. In addition, our expansion to the global cellular phone battery OEM market and other markets may not increase our revenue to a level that would enable us to materially reduce our dependence on sales of battery cells for the cellular phone market. Our business depends on the growth in demand for portable electronic devices. As the market demand for portable electronic devices is directly related to the demand for our products, a fast growing portable electronic device market will be critical to the success of our business. In anticipation of an expected increase in demand for portable electronic devices such as cellular phones, notebook computers and electric vehicles in the next few years, we have expanded our manufacturing capacity. However, the markets we have targeted, including those of the PRC, may not achieve the level of growth we expect. If this market fails to achieve our expected level of growth, we will have excess production capacity and may not be able to generate enough revenue to maintain our profitability. If we cannot continue to develop new products in a timely manner, and at favorable margins, we may not be able to compete effectively. The battery industry has been notable for the pace of innovations in product life, product design and applied technology. We and our competitors have made, and continue to make, investments in research and development with the goal of further innovation. The successful development and introduction of new products and line extensions face the uncertainty of customer acceptance and reaction from competitors, as well as the possibility of cannibalization of sales of our existing products. In addition, our ability to create new products and line extensions and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can: develop and fund research and technological innovations, receive and maintain necessary intellectual property protections, obtain governmental approvals and registrations, comply with governmental regulations, and anticipate customer needs and preferences successfully. The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business and any delay in the development or launch of a new product could also compromise our competitive position. If competitors introduce new or enhanced products that significantly outperform ours, or if they develop or apply manufacturing technology which permits them to manufacture at a significantly lower cost relative to ours, we may be unable to compete successfully in the market segments affected by these changes. Our efforts to develop products for new commercial applications could fail. Although we are involved with developing certain products for new commercial applications, we cannot provide assurance that acceptance of our products will occur due to the highly competitive nature of the business. There are many new product and technology entrants into the marketplace, and we must continually reassess the market segments in which our products can be successful and seek to engage customers in these segments that will adopt our products for use in their products. In addition, these companies must be successful with their products in their markets for us to gain increased business. Increased competition, failure to gain customer acceptance of products, the introduction of competitive technologies or failure of our customers in their markets could have a further adverse effect on our business. In particular, we have made significant investments to develop high-power lithium battery cells suitable for emerging technologies such as hybrid electric vehicles and light electric vehicles that have not yet resulted, and may never result, in significantly increasing our earnings. 14 Our future success depends on the success of manufacturers of the end applications that use our products. As we expand to the battery markets for global OEM cellular phones, notebook computers, electric vehicles and other portable electronic devices, our future success depends on whether end-application manufacturers are willing to use batteries that incorporate our products. To secure acceptance of our products, we must constantly develop and introduce more reliable and cost-effective battery cells with enhanced functionality to meet evolving industry standards. Our failure to gain acceptance of our products from these manufacturers could materially and adversely affect our future success. Even if a manufacturer decides to use batteries that incorporate our products, the manufacturer may not be able to market and sell its products successfully. The manufacturer’s inability to market and sell its products successfully, whether from lack of market acceptance or otherwise, could materially and adversely affect our business and prospects because this manufacturer may not order new products from us. If we cannot achieve the expected level of sales, we will not be able to make sufficient profits to offset the expenditures we have incurred to expand our production capacity, nor will we be able to grow our business. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future success would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to keep up with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards may cause our products to become obsolete and less marketable, resulting in loss of market share to our competitors. The lithium-based battery market is characterized by changing technologies and evolving industry standards, which are difficult to predict. This, coupled with frequent introduction of new products and models, has shortened product life cycles and may render our products obsolete or unmarketable. Our ability to adapt to evolving industry standards and anticipate future standards will be a significant factor in maintaining and improving our competitive position and our prospects for growth. To achieve this goal, we have invested and plan to continue investing significant financial resources in our R&D infrastructure. R&D activities, however, are inherently uncertain, and we might encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. Accordingly, our significant investment in our R&D infrastructure may not bear fruit. On the other hand, our competitors may improve their technologies or even achieve technological breakthroughs that would render our products obsolete or less marketable. Therefore, our failure to effectively keep up with rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards by introducing new and enhanced products may cause us to lose our market share and to suffer a decrease in our revenue. A change in our product mix may cause our results of operations to differ substantially from the anticipated results in any particular period. Our overall profitability may not meet expectations if our products, customers or geographic mix are substantially different than anticipated. Our profit margins vary among products, customers and geographic markets. Consequently, if our mix of any of these is substantially different from what is anticipated in any particular period, our profitability could be lower than anticipated. We have been and most likely will continue to be subject to rapidly declining average selling prices, which may harm our revenue and gross profits. Portable consumer electronics such as cellular phones and notebook computers are subject to rapid declines in average selling prices due to rapidly evolving technologies, industry standards and consumer preferences. As a result, manufacturers of these electronic devices expect us as suppliers to cut our costs and lower the price of our products in order to mitigate the negative impact on their own margins. We have reduced the price of our products in the past in order to meet market demand and expect to continue to face market-driven downward pricing pressures in the future. Our revenue and profitability will suffer if we are unable to offset any declines in our average selling prices by developing new or enhanced products with higher selling prices or gross profit margins, increasing our sales volumes or reducing our costs on a timely basis. We may face impairment charges if economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions substantially change. A property, plant and equipment impairment charge of $3.9 million and $62.5 million was recognized for each of the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, respectively. During the course of our strategic review of our operations during fiscal year 2013, we assessed the recoverability of the carrying value of certain property, plant and equipment and we wrote down the excess of carrying amount of these assets over their estimated fair value in accordance with US GAAP. Assessment of the potential impairment of property, plant and equipment and other identifiable intangible assets is an integral part of our normal ongoing review of operations. Testing for potential impairment of long-lived assets is dependent on numerous assumptions and reflects our best estimates at a particular point in time, which may vary from testing date to testing date. The economic environments in which our businesses operate and key economic and business assumptions with respect to projected product selling prices and materials costs, market growth and inflation rates, can significantly affect the outcome of impairment tests. Estimates based on these assumptions may differ significantly from actual results. Changes in factors and assumptions used in assessing potential impairments can have a significant impact on both the existence and magnitude of impairments, as well as the time at which such impairments are recognized. Future changes in the economic environment and the economic outlook for the assets being evaluated could also result in impairment charges. Any significant asset impairments would adversely impact our financial results. 15 We experience fluctuations in quarterly and annual operating results. Our quarterly and annual operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will fluctuate in the future. The demand for our products is driven largely by demand for the end-product applications that are powered by our products. Accordingly, the rechargeable battery industry is affected by market conditions that are often outside our control. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly from period to period due to a number of factors, including seasonal variations in consumer demand for batteries and their end applications, capacity ramp up by competitors, industry-wide technological changes, the loss of a key customer and the postponement, rescheduling or cancellation of large orders by a key customer. As a result of these factors and other risks discussed in this section, period-to-period comparisons should not be relied upon to predict our future performance. We may not be able to substantially increase our manufacturing output in order to maintain our cost competitiveness. We believe that our ability to provide cost-effective products is one of the most significant factors that contributed to our past success and will be essential for our future growth. We believe this is one of our competitive advantages over our Japanese and Korean competitors. In order to continue doing so, we will need to increase our manufacturing output to a level that will enable us to substantially reduce the cost of our products on a per unit basis through economies of scale. However, our ability to substantially increase our manufacturing output is subject to significant constraints and uncertainties, including: the need to raise significant additional funds to purchase and prepay raw materials or to build additional manufacturing facilities, which we may be unable to obtain on reasonable terms or at all; delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as increases in raw material prices and problems with equipment vendors; delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; diversion of significant management attention and other resources; and failure to execute our expansion plan effectively. If we are unable to increase our manufacturing output because of any of the risks described above, we may be unable to maintain our competitive position or achieve the growth we expect. Moreover, even if we expand our manufacturing output, we may not be able to generate sufficient customer demand for our products to support our increased production output. Maintaining our manufacturing operations requires significant capital expenditures, and our inability or failure to maintain our operations would have a material adverse impact on our market share and ability to generate revenue. We had capital expenditures of approximately $20.5 million and $13.3 million in fiscal years 2012 and 2013, respectively. We may incur significant additional capital expenditures as a result of unanticipated expenses, regulatory changes and other events that impact our business. If we are unable or fail to adequately maintain our manufacturing capacity or quality control processes, we could lose customers and there could be a material adverse impact on our market share and our ability to generate revenue. We may incur significant costs because of the warranties we supply with our products and services. With respect to our battery products, we typically offer warranties against any defects due to product malfunction or workmanship for a periods of six-to-twelve months from the date of purchase. We provide a reserve for these potential warranty expenses, which is based on an analysis of historical warranty issues. There is no assurance that future warranty claims will be consistent with past history, and in the event we experience a significant increase in warranty claims, there is no assurance that our reserves will be sufficient. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 16 Defects in our products could result in a loss of customers and decrease in revenue, unexpected expenses and a loss of market share. We have purchased certain product liability insurance from some PRC-based insurance companies to provide against any claims against us based on our product quality. If any of our products are found to have reliability, quality or compatibility problems, we will be required to accept returns, provide replacements, provide refunds, or pay damages. As our insurance policy imposes a ceiling for maximum coverage and high deductibles, we may not be able to obtain from our insurance policy a sufficient amount to compensate our customers for damages they suffered attributable to the quality of our products. Moreover, our insurance policy also excludes certain types of claims from its coverage, and if any of our customers’ claims against us falls into those exclusions, we would not receive any amount from our insurance policy at all. In either case, we may still be required to incur substantial amounts to indemnify our customers in respect of their product quality claims against us, which would materially and adversely affect the results of our operations and severely damage our reputation. We may not be able to accurately plan our production based on our sales contracts, which may result in excess product inventory or product shortages. Our sales contracts typically provide for a non-binding, three-month forecast on the quantity of products that our customers may purchase from us. We typically have only a 15-day lead time to manufacture products to meet our customers’ requirements once our customers place orders with us. To meet the short delivery deadline, we generally make significant decisions on our production level and timing, procurement, facility requirements, personnel needs and other resources requirements based on our estimate in light of this forecast, our past dealings with such customers, market conditions and other relevant factors. Our customers’ final purchase orders may not be consistent with our estimates. If the final purchase orders substantially differ from our estimates, we may have excess product inventory or product shortages. Excess product inventory could result in unprofitable sales or write-offs as our products are susceptible to obsolescence and price declines. Producing additional products to make up for any product shortages within a short time frame may be difficult, making us unable to fill out the purchase orders. In either case, our results of operation would fluctuate from period to period. We depend on third parties to supply key raw materials and components to us. Failure to obtain a sufficient supply of these raw materials and components in a timely fashion and at reasonable costs could significantly delay our production and shipments, which would cause us to breach our sales contracts with our customers. We purchase from Chinese domestic suppliers certain key raw materials and components such as electrolytes, electrode materials and import separators, a key component of battery cells, from foreign countries. We purchase raw materials and components on the basis of purchase orders. In the absence of firm and long-term contracts, we may not be able to obtain a sufficient supply of these raw materials and components from our existing suppliers or alternates in a timely fashion or at a reasonable cost. Our failure to secure a sufficient supply of key raw materials and components in a timely fashion would result in a significant delay in our production and shipments, which may cause us to breach our sales contracts with our customers. Furthermore, failure to obtain sufficient supply of these raw materials and components at a reasonable cost could also harm our revenue and gross profit margins. Fluctuations in prices and availability of raw materials, particularly lithium cobalt dioxide, could increase our costs or cause delays in shipments, which would adversely impact our business and results of operations. Our operating results could be adversely affected by increases in the cost of raw materials, particularly lithium cobalt dioxide, the primary cost component of our battery products, or other product parts or components. Our average purchase price of lithium cobalt oxide (the most important lithium cobalt dioxide we used) was $31.7 per kilogram and $30.3 per kilogram during the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, respectively. The price of lithium cobalt dioxide is not stable as most output of cobalt is conducted in unstable or developing countries such as the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and we cannot predict the price trend. If the price increases, it will negatively impact our financial results in years ahead. We historically have not been able to fully offset the effects of higher costs of raw materials through price increases to customers or by way of productivity improvements. 17 Fuel costs have increased significantly in recent months. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we are unable to pass along price increases to address higher fuel costs related to the distribution of products from our warehouses and distribution centers to our customers. A significant increase in the price of one or more raw materials, parts or components or the inability to successfully implement price increases / surcharges to mitigate such cost increases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We depend on third-party battery pack manufacturers to incorporate our products into battery packs to make batteries ready for use in various portable consumer electronics. If these factories fail to properly assemble our products and battery packs, resulting in defective battery cells, our reputation could be severely damaged and our sales could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, our battery technology may only be commercially viable as a component of other companies' products, and these companies may choose not to include our systems in their products. We manufacture only battery cells, the key component of a battery. Battery cells need to be incorporated into battery packs to constitute batteries ready for use in various portable consumer electronics. Some of our end-application customers may ask us to designate certain third-party battery pack manufacturers to assemble our products into batteries. While assembly is a fairly straightforward process as it does not involve complex technologies, the batteries could malfunction unless assembled properly. If the battery pack manufacturers with whom we cooperate fail to assemble batteries properly and cause a large number of batteries to be defective due to reasons unrelated to the quality of our products, our reputation could be severely damaged. In addition, if these battery pack manufacturers are unable to assemble a sufficient number of batteries to meet the requirements of our end-application customers and we cannot timely find qualified alternative battery pack manufacturers, our sales could be materially and adversely affected. To be commercially viable, our batteries must be integrated in most cases into products manufactured by other companies. These other companies may not be able to manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, may choose not to use our technology. Any integration, design, manufacturing or marketing problems encountered by companies using our products could adversely affect the market for our products and our financial results. Any perceived problem while conducting demonstrations of our batteries could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products, which could impede the development of our business. We have demonstrated our battery technology in the past and we plan to conduct additional demonstrations in public and in private in the future. We also expect our customers to conduct field testing and pilot programs to evaluate products which utilize our technology. Although to date we have not experienced significant problems in demonstration or testing, future demonstrations and testing could encounter problems for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly and the failure to maintain and service the test systems properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, field test programs, by their nature, involve delays and modifications. Any problem or perceived problem with our field tests could hurt our reputation and the reputation of our products, which could impede the development of our business. We manufacture and market lithium-based battery cells only. If a viable substitute product or chemistry emerges and gains market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially and adversely affected. We mainly manufacture and market lithium-based battery cells. As we believe that the market for lithium-based batteries has good growth potential, we have focused our R&D activities on exploring new chemistries and formulas to enhance our product quality and features while reducing cost. Some of our competitors are conducting R&D on alternative battery technologies, such as fuel cells. If any viable substitute product emerges and gains market acceptance because it has more enhanced features, more power, more attractive pricing, or better reliability, the market demand for our products may be reduced, and accordingly our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Manufacturing or use of our products may cause accidents, which could result in significant production interruption, delay or claims for substantial damages. Due to the high energy density inherent in lithium-based batteries, our batteries can pose certain safety risks, including the risk of fire. Although we incorporate safety procedures in the research, development, manufacture and transportation of batteries that are designed to minimize safety risks, the manufacture or use of our products may still cause accidents. Any accident, whether occurring at the manufacturing facilities or from the use of our products, may result in significant production interruption, delays or claims for substantial damages caused by personal injuries or property damages. 18 We face intense competition from other battery cell manufacturers, many of which have significantly greater resources. The market for battery cells used for portable electronic devices such as cellular phones is intensely competitive and is characterized by frequent technological changes and evolving industry standards. We expect competition to become more intense. Increased competition may result in declines in average selling prices, causing a decrease in gross profit margins. We have faced and will continue to face competition from manufacturers of traditional rechargeable battery cells, such as nickel-cadmium batteries, from manufacturers of rechargeable battery cells of more recent technologies, such as nickel-metal hydride and liquid electrolyte, other manufacturers of lithium-ion battery cells, as well as from companies engaged in the development of batteries incorporating new technologies. Other manufacturers of lithium-ion battery cells currently include Sony Corporation, Matsushita Electric Industrial Co., Ltd. (Panasonic), NEC Corporation, Hitachi Ltd., LG Chemical Ltd., Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., BYD Co. Ltd., Tianjin Lishen Battery Joint Stock Co., Ltd., Harbin Coslight Technology International Group Co., Ltd., and Amperex Technology Limited. Many of these existing competitors have greater financial, personnel, technical, manufacturing, marketing, sales and other resources than we do. As a result, these competitors may be in a stronger position to respond quickly to market opportunities, new or emerging technologies and evolving industry standards. Many of our competitors are developing a variety of battery technologies, such as lithium polymer and fuel cell batteries, which are expected to compete with our existing product lines. Other companies undertaking R&D activities of solid-polymer lithium-ion batteries have developed prototypes and are constructing commercial scale production facilities. It is possible that our competitors will be able to introduce new products with more desirable features than ours and their new products will gain market acceptance. If our competitors successfully do so, we may not be able to maintain our competitive position and our future success would be materially and adversely affected. We are dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenues and this dependence is likely to continue. We have been dependent on a limited number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue. Our top five customers accounted for approximately 25.0% and 41.6% of our revenues in the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, respectively. Dependence on a few customers could make it difficult to negotiate attractive prices for our products and could expose us to the risk of substantial losses if a single dominant customer stops purchasing our products. We expect that a limited number of customers will continue to contribute a significant portion of our sales in the near future. Our ability to maintain close relationships with these top customers is essential to the growth and profitability of our business. If we fail to sell our products to one or more of these top customers in any particular period, or if a large customer purchases fewer of our products, defers orders or fails to place additional orders with us, or if we fail to develop additional major customers, our revenue could decline, and our results of operations could be adversely affected. A small number of prismatic cell customers have historically accounted for a substantial portion of our revenues. As we expand our product portfolio and target new market segments, our customer composition as well as the identity and concentration of our top customers are expected to change from period to period. However, if we fail to find alternative sources of demand for our lithium-ion cells, our revenue may be substantially impacted. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers, which may result in significant uncertainties and volatility with respect to our revenue from period to period. We do not have long-term purchase commitments from our customers and the term of our sales contracts with our customers is typically one year. Furthermore, these contracts leave certain major terms such as price and quantity of products open to be determined in each purchase order. These contracts also allow parties to re-adjust the contract price for substantial changes in market conditions. As a result, if our customers hold stronger bargaining power than us or the market conditions are in their favor, we may not be able to enjoy the price downside protection or upside gain. Furthermore, our customers may decide not to continue placing purchase orders with us in the future at the same level as in prior periods. As a result, our results of operations may vary from period to period and may fluctuate significantly in the future. We extend relatively long payment terms to some large customers. As is customary in the industry in the PRC, we extend relatively long payment terms and provide generous return policies to some large customers. As a result of the size of many of our orders, these extended terms may adversely affect our cash flow and our ability to fund our operations out of our operating cash flow. In addition, although we attempt to establish appropriate reserves for our receivables, those reserves may not prove to be adequate in view of actual levels of bad debts. The failure of our customers to pay us timely would negatively affect our working capital, which could in turn adversely affect our cash flow. 19 Our customers often place large orders for products, requiring fast delivery, which impacts our working capital. If our customers do not incorporate our products into their products and sell them in a timely fashion, for example, due to excess inventories, sales slowdowns or other issues, they may not pay us in a timely fashion, even on our extended terms. Our customers’ failure to pay may force us to defer or delay further product orders, which may adversely affect our cash flows, sales or income in subsequent periods. We face risks associated with the marketing, distribution and sale of our products internationally, and if we are unable to effectively manage these risks, they could impair our ability to expand our business abroad. In the years ended September 30, 2012 and 2013, we derived 27.7% and 22.6% respectively of our sales from outside the PRC mainland. The marketing, international distribution and sale of our products expose us to a number of risks, including: fluctuations in currency exchange rates; difficulty in engaging and retaining distributors that are knowledgeable about, and can function effectively in, overseas markets; increased costs associated with maintaining marketing efforts in various countries; difficulty and cost relating to compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas markets in which we offer our products; inability to obtain, maintain or enforce intellectual property rights; and trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the prices of our products and make us less competitive in some countries. Our business depends substantially on the continuing efforts of our senior executives and other key personnel, and our business may be severely disrupted if we lost their services. Our future success heavily depends on the continued service of our senior executives and other key employees. In particular, we rely on the expertise and experience of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, President and Interim Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Xiangqian Li, and our Chief Technology Officer, Dr. Huanyu Mao. If one or more of our other senior executives are unable or unwilling to continue to work for us in their present positions, we may encounter similar problems, but on a compounded basis. Moreover, if any of our current or former senior executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose customers, suppliers, know-how and key personnel. Each of our executive officers has entered into an employment agreement with us, which contains non-competition and confidentiality clauses. However, if any dispute arises between our current or former executive officers and the Company, it is hard to predict the extent to which any of these agreements could be enforced in China, where these executive officers reside, in light of the uncertainties with China’s legal system. We have experienced significant management changes which could increase our control risks and have a material adverse effect on our ability to do business and our results of operations. Since February 2009, we have had a number of changes in our senior management, including four changes in our Chief Financial Officer. The magnitude of these past and expected changes and the short time interval in which they have occurred or are expected to occur, particularly during the ongoing economic and financial crisis, add to the risks of control failures, including a failure in the effective operation of our internal control over financial reporting or our disclosure controls and procedures. Control failures could result in material adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations. It may take time for the new management team to become sufficiently familiar with our business and each other to effectively develop and implement our business strategies. This turnover of key management positions could further harm our financial performance and results of operations. Management attention may be diverted from regular business concerns by reorganizations. The success of our business depends on our ability to attract, train and retain highly skilled employees and key personnel. 20 Because of the highly specialized, technical nature of our business, we must attract, train and retain a sizable workforce comprising highly skilled employees and other key personnel. Since our industry is characterized by high demand and intense competition for talent, we may have to pay higher salaries and wages and provide greater benefits in order to attract and retain highly skilled employees or other key personnel that we will need to achieve our strategic objectives. As we are still a relatively young company and our business has grown rapidly, our ability to train and integrate new employees into our operations may not meet the requirements of our growing business. Our failure to attract, train or retain highly skilled employees and other key personnel in numbers that are sufficient to satisfy our needs would materially and adversely affect our business. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause our loss of significant rights and inability to continue providing our existing product offerings. Our success also depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to lithium-ion battery technology patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly expensive and time-consuming. If there is a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay substantial damages to the party claiming infringement, develop non-infringing technologies or enter into royalty or license agreements that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. Our failure to develop non-infringing technologies or license the proprietary rights on a timely basis would harm our business. Protracted litigation could result in our customers, or potential customers, deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our products until resolution of such litigation. Parties making the infringement claim may also obtain an injunction that can prevent us from selling our products or using technology that contains the allegedly infringing contents. Any intellectual property litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. We may not be able to prevent others from unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or others may challenge our intellectual property rights, which could harm our business and competitive position. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements to protect our intellectual property rights. As of September 30, 2013, we owned 438 registered patents in PRC and 49 registered patents in other countries, and had 282 pending patent applications in PRC and 180 pending patent applications outside of PRC. We had 83 registered trademarks in PRC and 64 registered trademarks in the United States, European Union, Korea, Russia, Taiwan, Canada, India and Hong Kong that cover various categories of goods and services. We can make no assurances that all the pending patent applications will result in issuance of patents or, if issued, that it will sufficiently protect our intellectual property rights. Nor can we make any assurances that any patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights that we have obtained may not be challenged by third parties. Implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has historically been lax, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in PRC may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology is difficult and expensive. The steps we have taken may not be adequate to prevent unauthorized use of our intellectual property rights. Reverse engineering, unauthorized copying or other misappropriation of our proprietary technologies could enable third parties to benefit from our technologies without paying us any royalties. Though we are not currently involved in any litigation with respect to intellectual property, we may need to enforce our intellectual property rights through litigation. We do not hold the property ownership rights for certain facilities located in the PRC. Our manufacturing activities could be adversely affected if we lose the facilities that we do not have property ownership rights. We have obtained land use right and property ownership for our Tianjin manufacture facilities and most of Shenzhen facilities except for certain dormitories and structures which mainly comprises landslide preventing, roadway and drainage, plantation and sewage treatment works of our Shenzhen facilities. If we lose these dormitories and structures of our Shenzhen facilities due to the lack of the property ownership, our manufacture activities will be adversely impacted. Compliance with environmental regulations can be expensive, and our failure to comply with these regulations may result in adverse publicity and a material adverse effect on our business. As a manufacturer, we are subject to various PRC environmental laws and regulations on air emission, waste water discharge, solid waste and noise. Although we believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with current environmental laws and regulations, we may not be able to comply with these regulations at all times as the PRC environmental legal regime is evolving and becoming more stringent. Therefore, if the PRC government imposes more stringent regulations in the future, we will have to incur additional substantial costs and expenses in order to comply with new regulations, which may negatively affect our results of operations. If we fail to comply with any of the present or future environmental regulations in material aspects, we may suffer from negative publicity and may be required to pay substantial fines, suspend or even cease operations. Failure to comply with PRC environmental laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 To the extent we ship our products outside of the PRC, or to the extent our products are used in products sold outside of the PRC, they may be affected by the following: The transportation of non-rechargeable and rechargeable lithium batteries is regulated by the International Civil Aviation Organization, or ICAO, and corresponding International Air Transport Association, or IATA, Pipeline & Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, or PHMSA, Dangerous Goods Regulations and the International Maritime Dangerous Goods Code, or IMDG, and in the PRC by General Administration of Civil Aviation of China and Maritime Safety Administration of People’s Republic of China. These regulations are based on the United Nations, or UN, Recommendations on the Transport of Dangerous Goods Model Regulations and the UN Manual of Tests and Criteria. We currently ship our products pursuant to ICAO, IATA and PHMSA hazardous goods regulations. New regulations that pertain to all lithium battery manufacturers went into effect in 2003, 2004, and 2009, and 2010. The regulations require companies to meet certain testing, packaging, labeling and shipping specifications for safety reasons. We comply with all current PRC and international regulations for the shipment of our products, and will comply with any new regulations that are imposed. We have established our own testing facilities to ensure that we comply with these regulations. If we were unable to comply with the new regulations, however, or if regulations are introduced that limit our ability to transport our products to customers in a cost-effective manner, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited insurance coverage against damages or losses we might suffer. The insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development and business interruption insurance available in China offers limited coverage compared to that offered in many developed countries. We do not carry business interruption insurance and therefore any business disruption or natural disaster could result in substantial damages or losses to us. In addition, there are certain types of losses (such as losses from forces of nature) that are generally not insured because either they are uninsurable or insurance cannot be obtained on commercially reasonable terms. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, our business could be materially adversely affected. As of September 30, 2013, we have insurance for all of the buildings located at our BAK Industrial Park facility and owned by Shenzhen BAK, which constitute all of our PRC-based facilities in Shenzhen. We also had insurance for our facilities at Tianjin, PRC. We did not have insurance for our R&D Test Centre being constructed in Shenzhen. If we were to suffer any losses or damages to any uninsured facilities, or if our insurance does not cover any losses or damages that occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. We have identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to remediate the material weaknesses or maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud, and investor confidence and the market price of our shares may be adversely affected. To implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or SOX 404, the SEC adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. Under current law, we are subject to the requirement that we maintain internal controls and that management perform periodic evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal controls, assuming our filing status remains as a smaller reporting company. A report of our management is included under Item 9A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our management has identified the following material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting: we did not have appropriate policies and procedures in place to evaluate the proper accounting and disclosures of key documents and agreements, and there was insufficient accounting personnel with an appropriate level of technical accounting knowledge and experience in the application of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or U.S. GAAP, commensurate with our financial reporting requirements. A "material weakness" is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. We have taken measures and plan to continue to take measures to remedy this material weakness. However, the implementation of these measures may not fully address the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. Our failure to address any control deficiency could result in inaccuracies in our financial statements and could also impair our ability to comply with applicable financial reporting requirements and related regulatory filings on a timely basis. Moreover, effective internal control over financial reporting is important to prevent fraud. As a result, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects, as well as the trading price of our shares, may be materially and adversely affected. 22 If we become directly subject to the recent scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity involving U.S.-listed Chinese companies, we may have to expend significant resources to investigate and resolve the matter which could harm our business operations, stock price and reputation and could result in a loss of your investment in our stock, especially if such matter cannot be addressed and resolved favorably. Recently, U.S. public companies that have substantially all of their operations in China, particularly companies like us which have completed so-called reverse merger transactions, have been the subject of intense scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity by investors, financial commentators and regulatory agencies, such as the SEC. Much of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity has centered around financial and accounting irregularities and mistakes, a lack of effective internal controls over financial accounting, inadequate corporate governance policies or a lack of adherence thereto and, in many cases, allegations of fraud. As a result of the scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity, the publicly traded stock of many U.S. listed Chinese companies has sharply decreased in value and, in some cases, has become virtually worthless. Many of these companies are now subject to shareholder lawsuits and SEC enforcement actions, and are conducting internal and external investigations into the allegations. It is not clear what effect this sector-wide scrutiny, criticism and negative publicity will have on our Company, our business and our stock price. If we become the subject of any unfavorable allegations, whether such allegations are proven to be true or untrue, we will have to expend significant resources to investigate such allegations and/or defend our company. This situation will be costly and time consuming and distract our management from growing our company. If such allegations are not proven to be groundless, our company and business operations will be severely and your investment in our stock could be rendered worthless. The disclosures in our reports and other filings with the SEC and our other public pronouncements are not subject to the scrutiny of any regulatory bodies in the PRC. Accordingly, our public disclosure should be reviewed in light of the fact that no governmental agency that is located in China where substantially all of our operations and business are located have conducted any due diligence on our operations or reviewed or cleared any of our disclosures. We are regulated by the SEC and our reports and other filings with the SEC are subject to SEC review in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Unlike public reporting companies whose operations are located primarily in the United States, however, substantially all of our operations are located in China. Since substantially all of our operations and business take place in China, it may be more difficult for the Staff of the SEC to overcome the geographic and cultural obstacles that are present when reviewing our disclosures. These same obstacles are not present for similar companies whose operations or business take place entirely or primarily in the United States. Furthermore, our SEC reports and other disclosures and public pronouncements are not subject to the review or scrutiny of any PRC regulatory authority. For example, the disclosure in our SEC reports and other filings are not subject to the review of China Securities Regulatory Commission, a PRC regulator that is tasked with oversight of the capital markets in China. Accordingly, you should review our SEC reports, filings and our other public pronouncements with the understanding that no local regulator has done any due diligence on our company and with the understanding that none of our SEC reports, other filings or any of our other public pronouncements has been reviewed or otherwise been scrutinized by any local regulator. Our auditors, based in Hong Kong, China, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China and to the extent their audit clients have operations in China, is not permitted to be subject to full inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as such, you may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firms that issued the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as auditors of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), or PCAOB, are required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by the PCAOB to assess their compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. However, our operations are solely located in the PRC, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of the PRC authorities. Our independent registered public accounting firms, like others operating in China (and Hong Kong, to the extent their audit clients have operations in China), are currently not subject to inspection conducted by the PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that the PCAOB has conducted outside China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The inability of the PCAOB to conduct full inspections of auditors operating in China makes it more difficult to evaluate our auditors’ audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. 23 We face risks related to general domestic and global economic conditions and to the recent credit crisis. The current uncertainty arising out of domestic and global economic conditions, including the recent disruption in credit markets, poses a risk to the economies in which we operate that has impacted demand for our products and services, and may impact our ability to manage normal relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. If the current situation deteriorates significantly, our business could be materially negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services from a slow-down in the general economy, or supplier or customer disruptions resulting from tighter credit markets. In addition, terrorist activities may cause unpredictable or unfavorable economic conditions and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and financial condition. RISKS RELATED TO DOING BUSINESS IN CHINA Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could impede the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for our products and damage our business. We conduct substantially all of our operations and generate most of our revenue in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: a higher level of government involvement; an early stage of development of the market-oriented sector of the economy; a rapid growth rate; a higher level of control over foreign exchange; and the allocation of resources. As the PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, the PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. While these measures may benefit the overall PRC economy, they may also have a negative effect on us. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the PRC government continues to exercise significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling the payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and imposing policies that impact particular industries or companies in different ways. Any adverse change in economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could limit the legal protections available to you and us. We conduct substantially all of our business through our operating subsidiaries in China. Our operating subsidiaries are generally subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investments in China and, in particular, laws applicable to foreign-invested enterprises, or FIEs. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes, and prior court decisions may be cited for reference, but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, a series of new PRC laws and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, since the PRC legal system continues to rapidly evolve, the interpretations of many laws, regulations and rules are not always uniform and enforcement of these laws, regulations and rules involve uncertainties for you and us. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. If we are found to have failed to comply with applicable laws, we may incur additional expenditures or be subject to significant fines and penalties. Our operations are subject to PRC laws and regulations applicable to us. However, many PRC laws and regulations are uncertain in their scope, and the implementation of such laws and regulations in different localities could have significant differences. In certain instances, local implementation rules and/or the actual implementation are not necessarily consistent with the regulations at the national level. Although we strive to comply with all the applicable PRC laws and regulations, we cannot assure you that the relevant PRC government authorities will not later determine that we have not been in compliance with certain laws or regulations. 24 In addition, our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with these and other applicable laws and regulations in China could subject us to administrative penalties and injunctive relief, as well as civil remedies, including fines, injunctions and recalls of our products. It is possible that changes to such laws or more rigorous enforcement of such laws or with respect to our current or past practices could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Further, additional environmental, health or safety issues relating to matters that are not currently known to management may result in unanticipated liabilities and expenditures. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our subsidiaries for our cash needs. We are a holding company, and we conduct all of our operations through our PRC subsidiaries. We rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our PRC subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. Current regulations in the PRC permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with PRC accounting standards and regulations. According to the articles of association of our PRC subsidiaries, each of our PRC subsidiaries is required to set aside at least 10% of its after-tax profit based on the PRC accounting standards and regulations each year to its statutory general reserve, until the balance in the reserve reaches 50% of the registered capital of the company. Funds in the reserve are not distributable to us in forms of cash dividends, loans or advances. In addition, if our PRC subsidiaries incur debt on their own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us, which in turn will adversely affect our available cash. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our sales revenue effectively. Most of our sales revenue and expenses are denominated in RMB. Under PRC law, the RMB is currently convertible under the “current account,” which includes dividends and trade and service-related foreign exchange transactions, but not under the “capital account,” which includes foreign direct investment and loans. Currently, our PRC operating subsidiaries may purchase foreign currencies for settlement of current account transactions, including payments of dividends to us, without the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, the relevant PRC government authorities may limit or eliminate our ability to purchase foreign currencies in the future. Since a significant amount of our future revenue will be denominated in RMB, any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize revenue generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange transactions by PRC operating subsidiaries under the capital account continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of or need to register with PRC government authorities, including SAFE. In particular, if our PRC operating subsidiaries borrow foreign currency through loans from us or other foreign lenders, these loans must be registered with SAFE, and if we finance the subsidiaries by means of additional capital contributions, these capital contributions must be approved by certain government authorities, including the Ministry of Commerce, or MOFCOM, or their respective local counterparts. These limitations could affect their ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing. Fluctuation in the value of the RMB may result in foreign currency translation losses or in increased costs to us. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, the financial records of our operating subsidiaries are maintained in their local currency, the RMB, which is our functional currency. Approximately 97.8% of our revenues and 98.5% of our costs and expenses for the year ended September 30, 2013 are denominated in RMB, with the balance denominated in U.S. dollars. Approximately 96.5% of our assets excluding cash were denominated in RMB as of September 30, 2013. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange risk as our revenues and results of operations may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between U.S. dollars and RMB. If the RMB depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the value of our RMB revenues, earnings and assets as expressed in our U.S. dollar financial statements will decline. Assets and liabilities of our operating subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, their equity accounts are translated at historical exchange rate and their income and expenses items are translated using the average rate for the period. Any resulting exchange differences are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. An average appreciation (depreciation) of the RMB against the U.S. dollar of 5% would increase (decrease) our comprehensive loss by $2.5 million based on our outstanding revenues, costs and expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in RMB as of September 30, 2013. As of September 30, 2013, our accumulated other comprehensive income was $37.9 million. We have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign exchange risk. 25 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may subject our PRC resident stockholders to personal liability, limit our ability to acquire PRC companies or to inject capital into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to distribute profits to us or otherwise materially adversely affect us. In October 2005, SAFE issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the competent local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), expanded the reach of Circular 75 by (i) purporting to cover the establishment or acquisition of control by PRC residents of offshore entities which merely acquire “control” over domestic companies or assets, even in the absence of legal ownership; (ii) adding requirements relating to the source of the PRC resident’s funds used to establish or acquire the offshore entity; (iii) covering the use of existing offshore entities for offshore financings; (iv) purporting to cover situations in which an offshore SPV establishes a new subsidiary in China or acquires an unrelated company or unrelated assets in China; and (v) making the domestic affiliate of the SPV responsible for the accuracy of certain documents which must be filed in connection with any such registration, notably, the business plan which describes the overseas financing and the use of proceeds. Amendments to registrations made under Circular 75 are required in connection with any increase or decrease of capital, transfer of shares, mergers and acquisitions, equity investment or creation of any security interest in any assets located in China to guarantee offshore obligations, and Notice 106 makes the offshore SPV jointly responsible for these filings. In the case of an SPV which was established, and which acquired a related domestic company or assets, before the implementation date of Circular 75, a retroactive SAFE registration was required to have been completed before March 31, 2006; this date was subsequently extended indefinitely by Notice 106, which also required that the registrant establish that all foreign exchange transactions undertaken by the SPV and its affiliates were in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Failure to comply with the requirements of Circular 75, as applied by SAFE in accordance with Notice 106, may result in fines and other penalties under PRC laws for evasion of applicable foreign exchange restrictions. Any such failure could also result in the SPV’s affiliates being impeded or prevented from distributing their profits and the proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation to the SPV, or from engaging in other transfers of funds into or out of China. In June, 2009, Notice 106 was superseded by the Notice on Foreign Exchange Implementing Guidelines regarding Capital Account Management (known as Notice 77) which allows establishing or controlling a SPV before the SAFE registration is complete. In May 2011, a SAFE Notice on Issuance of the Operating Procedures for PRC Residents Engaging in Financing and Roundtrip investments via Overseas Special Purpose Vehicles (known as Notice 19) was promulgated to simply the SAFE registration process which further superseded Notice 77 and came into force on July 1, 2011. We have asked our stockholders who are PRC residents as defined in Circular 75 to register with the relevant branch of SAFE, as currently required, in connection with their equity interests in us and our acquisitions of equity interests in our PRC subsidiaries. However, we cannot provide any assurances that they can obtain the above SAFE registrations required by Circular 75, Notice 106, Notice 77 and Notice 19. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies. For example, our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities, such as the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings, may be subject to compliance with Circular 75, Notice 106, Notice 77 and Notice 19 by our PRC resident beneficial holders. In addition, such PRC residents may not always be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75, Notice 106, Notice 77 and Notice 19. We also have little control over either our present or prospective direct or indirect stockholders or the outcome of such registration procedures. A failure by our PRC resident beneficial holders or future PRC resident stockholders to comply with Circular 75, Notice 106, Notice 77 and Notice 19, if SAFE requires it, could subject these PRC resident beneficial holders to fines or legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, which could adversely affect our business and prospects. 26 The M&A Rule establishes more complex procedures for some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors, which could make it more difficult for us to pursue growth through acquisitions in China. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule establishes additional procedures and requirements that could make some acquisitions of Chinese companies by foreign investors more time-consuming and complex, including requirements in some instances that the PRC Ministry of Commerce be notified in advance of any change-of-control transaction and in some situations, require approval of the PRC Ministry of Commerce when a foreign investor takes control of a Chinese domestic enterprise. The regulations prohibit a transaction at an acquisition price obviously lower than the appraised value of the PRC business or assets and in certain transaction structures, require that consideration must be paid within defined periods, generally not in excess of a year. The regulation also limits our ability to negotiate various terms of the acquisition, including aspects of the initial consideration, contingent consideration, holdback provisions, indemnification provisions and provisions relating to the assumption and allocation of assets and liabilities. Transaction structures involving trusts, nominees and similar entities are prohibited. Government approvals will have expiration dates by which a transaction must be completed and reported to the government agencies. In the future, we may grow our business in part by acquiring complementary businesses, although we do not have any plans to do so at this time. The M&A Rule also requires PRC Ministry of Commerce anti-trust review of any change-of-control transactions involving certain types of foreign acquirers. On February 3, 2011, the Circular on Establishing the Security Review System for Merger and Acquisition of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors was promulgated by the General Office of the State Council, which went into effect on March 4, 2011. On August 25, 2011, the Ministry of Commerce issued the corresponding implementation rules. According to these rules, a foreign investor’s acquisitions of Chinese companies in the fields of military, important agricultural products, energy and resources, infrastructure, transport service, key technology and major equipment manufacturing, and other restricted fields requires security review by a ministerial panel established and governed under the direction of the State Council and led by the National Development and Reform Commission and Ministry of Commerce. Complying with the requirements of the M&A Rule to complete such transactions could be time-consuming, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the PRC Ministry of Commerce, may delay or inhibit our ability to complete such transactions, which could affect our ability to expand our business or maintain our market share. Investors may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based upon U.S. laws, including the federal securities laws or other foreign laws against us or our management. All of our current operations are conducted in China. Moreover, most of our current directors and officers are nationals or residents of China. All or a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States and in the PRC. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon these persons. In addition, uncertainty exists as to whether the courts of China would recognize or enforce judgments of U.S. courts obtained against us or such officers and/or directors predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in China against us or such persons predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof. Under the Enterprise Income Tax Law, we may be classified as a “resident enterprise” of China. Such classification will likely result in unfavorable tax consequences to us and our non-PRC stockholders. Under China’s Enterprise Income Tax Law, or the EIT Law, an enterprise established outside of China with “de facto management bodies” within China is considered a “resident enterprise,” meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define de facto management as “substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties” of the enterprise. The State Administration of Taxation has issued the Notice Concerning Relevant Issues Regarding Cognizance of Chinese Investment Controlled Enterprises Incorporated Offshore as Resident Enterprises pursuant to Criteria of de facto Management Bodies, or the Notice, further interpreting the application of the EIT Law and its implementation non-Chinese enterprise or group controlled offshore entities. Pursuant to the Notice, an enterprise incorporated in an offshore jurisdiction and controlled by a Chinese enterprise or group will be classified as a “non-domestically incorporated resident enterprise” if (i) its senior management in charge of daily operations reside or perform their duties mainly in China; (ii) its financial or personnel decisions are made or approved by bodies or persons in China; (iii) its substantial assets and properties, accounting books, corporate chops, board and shareholder minutes are kept in China; and (iv) at least half of its directors with voting rights or senior management often resident in China. A resident enterprise would be subject to an enterprise income tax rate of 25% on its worldwide income and must pay a withholding tax at a rate of 10% when paying dividends to its non-PRC shareholders. However, it remains unclear as to whether the Notice is applicable to an offshore enterprise incorporated by a Chinese natural person. Nor are detailed measures on imposition of tax from non-domestically incorporated resident enterprises are available. Therefore, it is unclear how tax authorities will determine tax residency based on the facts of each case. 27 If the PRC tax authorities determine that China BAK Battery, Inc. is a “resident enterprise” for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of unfavorable PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our worldwide taxable income as well as PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. In our case, this would mean that income such as interest on offering proceeds and non-China source income would be subject to PRC enterprise income tax at a rate of 25%. Second, although under the EIT Law and its implementing rules dividends paid to us from our PRC subsidiaries would qualify as “tax-exempt income,” we cannot guarantee that such dividends will not be subject to a 10% withholding tax, as the PRC foreign exchange control authorities, which enforce the withholding tax, have not yet issued guidance with respect to the processing of outbound remittances to entities that are treated as resident enterprises for PRC enterprise income tax purposes. Finally, it is possible that future guidance issued with respect to the new “resident enterprise” classification could result in a situation in which a 10% withholding tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our non-PRC stockholders and with respect to gains derived by our non-PRC stockholders from transferring our shares. We are actively monitoring the possibility of “resident enterprise” treatment for the 2013 tax year and are evaluating appropriate organizational changes to avoid this treatment, to the extent possible. In addition, under the EIT Law, dividends payable by a FIE to any of its foreign non-resident enterprise investors shall be subject to a 10% withholding tax, unless such foreign non-resident enterprise investor’s jurisdiction of incorporation has signed a tax treaty or arrangement for the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to taxes on income with China that provides for a reduced rate of withholding tax on dividends. Since the PRC and Hong Kong have signed the above-mentioned tax arrangement for the avoidance of double taxation, and Shenzhen BAK, BAK Battery and BAK Tianjin are wholly owned by BAK International, the dividends payable by each of Shenzhen BAK, BAK Battery and BAK Tianjin to its foreign non-resident enterprise investors are expected to be subject to a 5% withholding tax pursuant to the China-Hong Kong double tax arrangement. We currently enjoy a reduced tax rate and other government incentives, and the loss of or reduction in these benefits may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Shenzhen BAK and BAK Battery are both registered and operate in Shenzhen, the PRC, and are each recognized as a “Manufacturing Enterprise Located in Special Economic Zone”. As a result, they had been entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15%. In accordance with the relevant income tax laws, the profits of Shenzhen BAK and BAK Battery were fully exempted from income tax for two years from the first profitable calendar year of operations after offset of accumulated taxable losses, followed by a 50% exemption for the immediate next three calendar years. The tax holiday of Shenzhen BAK commenced in 2002, the first calendar year in which Shenzhen BAK had assessable profit, and ended on December 31, 2006. In addition, due to additional capital contributed by BAK International to Shenzhen BAK in both 2005 and 2006 and Shenzhen BAK’s qualification as an advanced technology enterprise in 2007 and 2008, Shenzhen BAK was granted a preferential income tax rate of 7.5%, 11.8% and 12.6% for calendar years 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively. In April18, 2008 the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST), the Ministry of Finance (MOF), the State Taxation Administration (STA) jointly issued “Measures for Acknowledgement and Determination of New and High Technology Enterprises”, under the measures, if an enterprise is successfully recognized as a new and high technology enterprise, it should be entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15%. Shenzhen BAK was recognized as a high technology enterprise on October 31, 2011; as a result, Shenzhen BAK is entitled to a preferential enterprise income tax rate of 15% for each calendar year 2011, 2012 and 2013. For BAK Battery, established in August 2005, the same tax holiday was in effect for calendar years 2006 and 2007, making BAK Battery fully exempt from any enterprise income tax. Following the tax holiday, a three-year 50% reduction in BAK Battery’s enterprise income tax rate commenced. Pursuant to the transition period of the EIT Law, BAK Battery’s income tax rates for calendar years 2011 and 2012 are 24% and 25%, respectively. Taking the 50% reduction into account, BAK Battery’s income tax rate is 24% for calendar year 2011, and starting in calendar year 2012, it is subject to an income tax rate of 25%. BAK Battery did not incur any enterprise income tax for the current year due to cumulative tax losses. 28 We face uncertainty from the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises' Share Transfer released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation (SAT), effective as of January 1, 2008. Pursuant to the Circular on Strengthening the Administration of Enterprise Income Tax on Non-resident Enterprises' Share Transfer, or Circular 698, released in December 2009 by China's State Administration of Taxation, or SAT, effective as of January 1, 2008, Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise by selling the shares in an offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country (jurisdiction) where the effective tax burden is less than 12.5% or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the foreign investor shall provide the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise with the relevant information within 30 days of the transfers. Where a foreign investor indirectly transfers equity interests in a Chinese resident enterprise through the abuse of form of organization and there are no reasonable commercial purposes such that the corporate income tax liability is avoided, the tax authority shall have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer in accordance with the “substance-over-form” principle and deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes. “Income derived from equity transfers” as mentioned in Circular 698 refers to income derived by non-resident enterprises from direct or indirect transfers of equity interests in China resident enterprises, excluding shares in Chinese resident enterprises that are bought and sold openly on a stock exchange. While the term “indirectly transfer” is not defined, we understand that the relevant PRC tax authorities have jurisdiction regarding requests for information over a wide range of foreign entities having no direct contact with China. The relevant authority has not yet promulgated any formal provisions or formally declared or stated how to calculate the effective tax in every country (jurisdiction) and to what extent and the process of the disclosure to the tax authority in charge of that Chinese resident enterprise. Meanwhile, there are not any formal declarations with regard to how to decide “abuse of form of organization” and “reasonable commercial purpose,” which can be utilized to help comply with Circular 698. The Chinese government exerts substantial influence over the manner in which we must conduct our business activities. The PRC government has exercised and continues to exercise substantial control over virtually every sector of the Chinese economy through regulation and state ownership. Our ability to operate in China may be harmed by changes in its laws and regulations, including those relating to taxation, import and export tariffs, environmental regulations, land use and property ownership rights, and other matters. We believe that our operations in China are in material compliance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements. However, the central or local governments of the jurisdictions in which we operate may impose new, stricter regulations or interpretations of existing regulations that would require additional expenditures and efforts on our part to ensure our compliance with such regulations or interpretations. Accordingly, government actions in the future, including any decision not to continue to support recent economic reforms and to return to a more centrally planned economy or regional or local variations in the implementation of economic policies, could have a significant effect on economic conditions in China or particular regions thereof, and could require us to divest ourselves of any interest we then hold in Chinese properties or joint ventures. RISKS RELATED TO OUR COMMON STOCK The market price for our common stock may be volatile. The market price for our common stock may be highly volatile and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to a variety of factors, some of which may be beyond our control. Factors affecting the trading price of our common stock include: the lack of depth and liquidity of the market for our common stock; actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; announcements of new products or services by us or our competitors; changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; market conditions in our industry; 29 changes in operations or market valuations of other companies in our industry; our sales of common stock; investor perceptions of us and our business; changes in the estimates of the future size and growth rate of our markets; market conditions in industries of our customers; announcements by our competitors of significant acquisitions; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; recruitment or departures of key personnel; potential litigation; any material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting; and the overall economy, geopolitical events, terrorist activities, or threats of terrorism. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the performance of listed companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. For example, the trading price of our common stock could decline in reaction to events that negatively affect other companies in our industry even if these events do not directly affect us at all. In the past, many companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be a target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. If the trading price of our common shares fails to comply with the continued listing requirements of The NASDAQ Global Market, we would face possible delisting, which would result in a limited public market for our common stock and make obtaining future debt or equity financing more difficult for us. Companies listed on The NASDAQ Stock Market, or NASDAQ, are subject to delisting for, among other things, failure to maintain a minimum closing bid price per share of $1.00 for 30 consecutive business days. On May 25, 2012, we received a letter from NASDAQ indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share requirement pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1) for continued inclusion on The NASDAQ Global Market. After we effected a one-for-five reverse split on October 26, 2012, we regained compliance with the minimum bid price requirement for continued listing set forth in NASDAQ Listing Rule 5450(a)(1). On June 5, 2013, we received another letter from NASDAQ indicating that for the last 30 consecutive business days, the bid price of our common stock closed below the minimum $1.00 per share. We again regained compliance within a short period of time. As of January 10, 2014, the closing price of our common stock was $2.45 per share. We cannot be sure that our share price will comply with the requirements for continued listing of our common stock on The NASDAQ Global Market in the future. If our common stock loses its status on The NASDAQ Global Market and we are not successful in obtaining a listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market, our common stock would likely trade in the over-the-counter market. If our shares were to trade on the over-the-counter market, selling our common stock could be more difficult because smaller quantities of shares would likely be bought and sold, transactions could be delayed, and security analysts’ coverage of us may be reduced. In addition, in the event our common stock is delisted, broker-dealers have certain regulatory burdens imposed upon them, which may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our common stock, further limiting the liquidity of our common stock. These factors could result in lower prices and larger spreads in the bid and ask prices for our common stock. Such delisting from The NASDAQ Global Market and continued or further declines in our share price could also greatly impair our ability to raise additional necessary capital through equity or debt financing, and could significantly increase the ownership dilution to shareholders caused by our issuing equity in financing or other transactions. We may be subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions and you may have difficulty selling shares of our common stock. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define so-called “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exemptions. If our common stock becomes a “penny stock”, we may become subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act, or the Penny Stock Rule. This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. 30 For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. There can be no assurance that our common stock will qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. Our directors and executive officers, collectively, own approximately 30.99% of our outstanding common stock and may be able to control our management and affairs. As of September 30, 2013, Mr. Xiangqian Li, our president and chief executive officer and chairman of our board, and our other executive officers and directors beneficially owned an aggregate of 30.99% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, our directors and executive officers, acting together, may be able to control our management and affairs, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions, such as mergers, consolidation, and sale of all or substantially all of our assets. Consequently, this concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control, including a merger, consolidation or other business combination involving us, even if such a change of control would benefit our stockholders. Provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws could entrench our board of directors and prevent a change in control. Our articles of incorporation provide that special meetings of the stockholders can only be called by our president or any other executive officer, or the board of directors, or any member thereof, the record holder or holders of at least 10% of all shares entitled to vote at the meeting, or the president or secretary at the written request of our stockholders holding not less than 30% of all shares issued, outstanding and entitled to vote. In addition, our bylaws and/or our articles of incorporation (i) allow vacancies in the board of directors to be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum, (ii) provide that no contract or transaction between us and one or more of our directors or officers is void if certain criteria are met, (iii) provide that our bylaws may be amended or appealed at any meeting of the board of directors at which a quorum is present, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at such meeting, and (iv) provide that at an annual meeting, our stockholders elect a board of directors and transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting; by contrast, at a special meeting, our stockholders may transact only the business for the purposes specified in the notice of the meeting unless all of our stockholders entitled to vote are present at the special meeting and consent. In addition, our board of directors may cause us to issue our authorized but unissued shares of common stock in the future without stockholders’ approval. These additional shares may be utilized for a variety of corporate purposes, including future public offerings to raise additional capital, corporate acquisitions and employee benefit plans. The existence of authorized but unissued shares of common stock could render more difficult or discourage an attempt to obtain control of a majority of our common stock by means of a proxy contest, tender offer, merger or otherwise. Collectively, these provisions may have the effect of entrenching our existing board members, discouraging or preventing a transaction including a change in control transaction where such transaction would be beneficial to our stockholders.. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 