Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Mainland China—Fluctuations in exchange rates could materially and adversely affect our financial results” and “Item 10. Additional Information—Exchange Controls.” Each of our operating subsidiaries in Mainland China is able to purchase foreign exchange for settlement of current account transactions, as defined in applicable regulations, in order to satisfy its foreign exchange requirements. 46 Table of Contents Item 6. Directors, Senior Management and Employees. Directors and Senior Management The following table sets forth certain information concerning our directors and senior management as of June 10, 2008. Name Age Position Mr. WANG Jianzhou 59 Executive Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mr. ZHANG Chunjiang 49 Executive Director and Vice Chairman Mr. LI Yue 49 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. LU Xiangdong 48 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. XUE Taohai 52 Executive Director, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Mdm. HUANG Wenlin 53 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. SHA Yuejia 50 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. LIU Aili 44 Executive Director and Vice President Mdm. XIN Fanfei 51 Executive Director and Vice President Mr. XU Long 51 Executive Director Mr. Paul Michael DONOVAN 49 Non-Executive Director Dr. LO Ka Shui 61 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. Frank K.S. WONG 60 Independent Non-Executive Director Dr. Moses M.C. CHENG 58 Independent Non-Executive Director Mr. WANG Jianzhou has served as our Executive Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer since November 2004. Mr. Wang is in charge of our overall management. He is also the President of CMCC, and the Chairman of CMC. Prior to joining us, Mr. Wang served as Deputy Director General and Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Bureau of Hangzhou City, Deputy Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Administration of Zhejiang Province, Director General of the Department of Planning and Construction of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Director General of the Department of General Planning of the former Ministry of Information Industry, and Director, Executive Vice President, President and Chairman of China United Telecommunications Corporation, and Executive Director, President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of China Unicom Limited, and Chairman and President of China United Telecommunications Corporation Limited. Mr. Wang graduated in 1985 from the Department of Management Engineering of Zhejiang University with a Master’s Degree in Engineering, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Wang is a professor-level senior engineer with extensive knowledge and has over 30 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. ZHANG Chunjiang has served as our Executive Director and Vice Chairman since June 2008. Mr. Zhang is also a Vice President of CMCC. Prior to joining us, Mr. Zhang served as Deputy Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Administration of Liaoning Province, Director General of Mobile Telecommunications Administration of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Director General of Telecommunications Administration and Deputy Minister of the former Ministry of Information Industry, President of China Network Communications Group Corporation, Chairman of China Netcom (Group) Company Limited, Chairman and Executive Director of China Netcom Group Corporation (Hong Kong) Limited and Non-Executive Director of PCCW Limited. Mr. Zhang graduated in 1982 from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications with a bachelor’s degree in telecommunications. Mr. Zhang is a professor-level senior engineer with extensive experience in telecommunications management, operations and technology. Mr. LI Yue has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2003. Mr. Li assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our network, planning and development strategy. He has been serving as Vice President of CMCC since April 2000. Mr. Li is also a director of CMC. Mr. Li previously served as the Deputy Director General of the Tianjin Posts and Telecommunications Administration and the President of Tianjin Mobile Communications Company. Mr. Li graduated from Tianjin University with a Master’s Degree in 47 Table of Contents business administration, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Li is a professor-level senior engineer with over 32 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. LU Xiangdong has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2003. Mr. Lu assists the Chief Executive Officer principally with respect to our marketing, data, corporate customer matters and Beijing Olympics related matters. He has been serving as Vice President of CMCC since April 2000. Mr. Lu is also a director of CMC, Chairman of Aspire Holdings Limited and a director of Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Limited. He previously served as the Director General of Fujian Wireless Telecommunications Administration and the Deputy Director General of the Mobile Telecommunications Bureau of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications. Mr. Lu graduated from the Academy of Posts and Telecommunications of the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications with a Master’s Degree in wireless telecommunications, and holds a doctoral degree in economics from Peking University. Mr. Lu is a professor-level senior engineer with nearly 26 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. XUE Taohai has served as our Executive Director, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since July 2002. Mr. Xue assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our management of corporate finance and human resources remuneration. Mr. Xue is also a Vice President of CMCC and a director of CMC. Mr. Xue previously served as the Deputy Director General of the Finance Department of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Deputy Director General of the Department of Financial Adjustment and Clearance of the former Ministry of Information Industry and Deputy Director General of the former Directorate General of Telecommunications. He graduated from Henan University and received an EMBA degree from Peking University. He is a senior accountant with over 28 years of experience in the telecommunications industry and financial management. Mdm. HUANG Wenlin has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since September 2007. Mdm. Huang assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our corporate affairs. Mdm. Huang is also a Vice President of CMCC, and a director of CMC. Mdm. Huang previously served as the Director of Domestic Communications Division and Director of Communications Organization Division of the Directorate General of Telecommunications of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications, Vice President of China Telecommunications Corporation and Executive Director and Executive Vice President of China Telecom Corporation Limited. Mdm. Huang graduated in 1984 from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications with a major in management engineering and received an EMBA degree from Peking University. Mdm. Huang is a senior economist with 32 years of operational and managerial experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. SHA Yuejia has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2006. Mr. Sha assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our business support, technology and research & development. He is also a Vice President of CMCC and a director of CMC. He previously served as Director of the Engineering Construction Department IV Division of Beijing Telecommunications Administration, President of Beijing Telecommunications Planning Design Institute, Deputy Director General of Beijing Telecommunications Administration, Vice President of Beijing Mobile Communications Company, and Director and Vice President, Chairman and President of Beijing Mobile. Mr. Sha graduated from Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, and received a Master’s Degree from the Academy of Posts and Telecommunications of the former Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications and a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He is a professor-level senior engineer with over 25 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. LIU Aili has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since March 2006. Mr. Liu assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our business expansion and management information systems. He is also a Vice President of CMCC, a director of CMC and Chairman of CMPak Limited. He previously served as Deputy Director General of Shandong Mobile Telecommunications Administration, Director General of Shandong Mobile Telecommunications Administration and General Manager of Shandong Mobile Communications Enterprises, Vice President of Shandong Mobile Communications Company, Director-General 48 Table of Contents of Network Department of China Mobile Communications Corporation, and Chairman and President of Shandong Mobile and Zhejiang Mobile. Mr. Liu graduated from Heilongjiang Posts and Telecommunications School with an associate degree and completed a post-graduate program in economics at Shandong University. Mr. Liu also received a Master of Management degree from Norwegian School of Management BI and a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. He is a professor-level senior engineer with over 25 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mdm. XIN Fanfei has served as our Executive Director and Vice President since January 2006. Mdm. Xin assists the Chief Executive Officer in relation to our general administration and investor and media relations. She previously served as Deputy Director of the Foreign Affairs Division, Deputy Director of the Planning Division and Chief of the Planning Office, Director of the Planning Division, Director of the Department of Planning and Construction of Tianjin Posts and Telecommunications Administration, Assistant to the Director General and Director of the Department of Planning and Construction of Tianjin Mobile Telecommunications Administration, Vice President of Tianjin Mobile Communications Company, Vice President of Tianjin Mobile, President of Heilongjiang Mobile Communications Company, and Chairwoman and President of Heilongjiang Mobile. Mdm. Xin graduated from Xidian University and received an EMBA degree from Peking University. She is currently pursuing a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mdm. Xin is a professor-level senior engineer with many years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. XU Long has served as our Executive Director since August 1999. He is also the Chairman and President of Guangdong Mobile, responsible for the mobile telecommunications operations in Guangdong Province. He previously served as Deputy Director of Shaoxing Posts and Telecommunications Bureau, President of Zhejiang Nantian Posts and Telecommunications Group Company, Director of the General Office and Deputy Director General of the Posts and Telecommunications Administration in Zhejiang Province, and Chairman and President of Zhejiang Mobile. He graduated from Zhejiang Radio and Television University in 1985, and holds a doctoral degree in business administration from Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Mr. Xu is a senior economist with 30 years of experience in the telecommunications industry. Mr. Paul Michael DONOVAN has served as our Non-Executive Director since June 2006. Mr. Donovan is currently Vodafone’s Chief Executive Officer for EMAPA of Vodafone. Mr. Donovan is also a member of the Executive Committee of Vodafone, a director of Vodafone’s operating companies located in Turkey, Hungary, Australia, New Zealand, Egypt, Czech Republic and Romania and also a director of certain other subsidiaries of Vodafone. Prior to his appointment as the Chief Executive Officer of the EMAPA division, Mr. Donovan was Chief Executive Officer of the Other Vodafone Subsidiaries, which included 14 of Vodafone’s operating subsidiaries. Mr. Donovan joined Vodafone UK in 1999 as Managing Director—Commercial, and in 2001 was appointed the Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone Ireland. In 2004 he assumed the additional role of Global Director of Business Integration, leading One Vodafone, Vodafone’s business transformation program. Mr. Donovan began his career in FMCG sales and marketing at the Mars Group, before becoming Marketing Director at Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages in 1989. He holds a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Scandinavian Studies from University College London and a Master’s Degree in Business Administration from Bradford University Management Centre, and has over 16 years experience in the telecommunications and information technology industries, gained at Apple Computer, BT and Cable and Wireless subsidiary One2One as Commercial Director, and as Chief Commercial Officer at Australian telecommunications provider Optus Communications. His directorships held in other listed public companies in the last three years include Vodafone Egypt Telecommunications S.A.E. and Bharti Tele-Ventures Limited. Dr. LO Ka Shui has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since April 2001. Dr. Lo is the Chairman and Managing Director of Great Eagle Holdings Limited, and is the non-executive chairman of Eagle Asset Management (CP) Limited (manager of Hong Kong listed Champion Real Estate Investment Trust). He is also a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Shanghai Industrial Holdings Limited, Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Limited, City e-Solutions Limited, Melco International 49 Table of Contents Development Limited and Winsor Properties Holdings Limited. He was a non-executive director of The HSBC China Fund Limited, Tom Online Inc. and Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited. He is also a Vice President of the Real Estate Developers Association of Hong Kong, a Trustee of the Hong Kong Centre for Economic Research and a Member of the Airport Authority. Dr. Lo graduated with a Bachelor of Science Degree from McGill University in Canada and a Doctorate degree in medicine from Cornell University in the United States. He is board certified in cardiology. He has more than 28 years of experience in property and hotel development and investment both in Hong Kong and overseas. Mr. Frank K.S. WONG has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since August 2002. Mr. Wong is currently Vice Chairman of DBS Bank, Chief Operating Officer and a member of the boards of DBS Bank and DBS Group Holdings, and Chairman of DBS Bank (Hong Kong). Mr. Wong is also a director of National Healthcare Group Pte Ltd and Mapletree Investments Pte Ltd, and is a member of the University Court of The University of Hong Kong. He previously held a series of progressively senior positions with regional responsibility at Citibank, JP Morgan and NatWest from 1967 to 1999. Mr. Wong has also served in various positions with Hong Kong’s government bodies including the Chairman of the Hong Kong Futures Exchange. Mr. Wong has many years of finance and commercial management experience. Dr. Moses M.C. CHENG has served as our independent Non-Executive Director since March 2003. Dr. Cheng is a practicing solicitor and the senior partner of Messrs. P.C. Woo & Co. Dr. Cheng was a member of the Legislative Council of Hong Kong between 1991 and 1995. He is the Founder Chairman of the Hong Kong Institute of Directors of which he currently is the Honorary President and Chairman Emeritus. His other directorships held in listed public companies in the last three years include ARA Asset Management Limited, Beijing Capital International Airport Company Limited, City Telecom (HK) Limited, China COSCO Holdings Company Limited, China Resources Enterprise Limited, Guangdong Investment Limited, Kader Holdings Company Limited, Galaxy Entertainment Group Limited (formerly known as K. Wah Construction Materials Limited), Liu Chong Hing Investment Limited, Shui On Construction and Materials Limited, Tian An China Investments Company Limited, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited and Towngas China Company Limited. Compensation The aggregate amount of compensation that we paid to our directors and executive officers in 2007 for services performed as directors, officers or employees was approximately HK$35 million (US$4.5 million). We adopted a share option scheme on October 8, 1997, or the Old Scheme, pursuant to which our directors may, at their discretion, invite our employees, including executive directors, or employees of our subsidiaries, to take up options to subscribe for ordinary shares up to a maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares equal to 10% of our total issued share capital. Pursuant to a resolution passed at the annual general meeting held on June 24, 2002, the Old Scheme was terminated and a new share option scheme, or the Current Scheme, was adopted. The purpose of the Current Scheme is to provide the Company with a flexible and effective means of remunerating and providing benefits to the employees, the executive directors and the non-executive directors of the Company, any of its holdings companies and their respective subsidiaries and any entity in which the Company or any of its subsidiaries holds any equity interest, thereby providing incentives to these participants. Under the Current Scheme, the directors of the Company may, at their discretion, invite the plan participants to take up options to subscribe for the ordinary shares of the Company. The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares which can be subscribed pursuant to options that are or may be granted under the above schemes equals to 10% of the total issued share capital of the Company as at the date of adoption of the Current Scheme. Options lapsed or cancelled in accordance with the terms of the Old Scheme or the Current Scheme will not be counted for the purpose of calculating this 10% limit. 50 Table of Contents As the Old Scheme was terminated with effect on June 24, 2002, no further options were granted under the Old Scheme thereafter. Under the Old Scheme, all options not exercised on or before October 7, 2007 have lapsed. Accordingly, as at December 31, 2007, there were no outstanding options granted under the Old Scheme. As at the same date, the total number of ordinary shares which may be issued on the exercise of the outstanding options granted or to be granted under the Current Scheme is 1,510,285,254. No share options were granted under the Current Scheme during the year ended December 31, 2007. The consideration payable for the grant of option under each of the Old Scheme and the Current Scheme is HK$1.00. For options granted before September 1, 2001 under the Old Scheme, the exercise price of the options was determined by the directors of the Company at their discretion provided that such price may not be set below a minimum price which is the higher of: (i) the nominal value of a share; and (ii) 80% of the average of the closing price of the ordinary share on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on the five trading days immediately preceding the date on which the option was granted. For options granted under the Current Scheme, the exercise price of the options are determined by the directors of the Company at their discretion provided that such price may not be set below a minimum price which is the highest of: (i) the nominal value of an ordinary share; (ii) the closing price of the ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange on the date on which the option was granted; and (iii) the average closing price of the ordinary shares on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange for the five trading days immediately preceding the date on which the option was granted. Under the Old Scheme, all options not exercised have lapsed by December 31, 2007, and under the Current Scheme, the term of the option is determined by the directors at their discretion, provided that all options shall be exercised within 10 years after the date on which the option is granted. As of December 31, 2007, the directors and employees of the Company had options to subscribe for the ordinary shares of the Company granted under the Current Scheme. In 2007, 64,090,450 of these options had been exercised. See “—Share Ownership” below for details on options granted to our directors. Board Practices To enhance our corporate governance, we have three principal board committees, the audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee. The audit committee, the remuneration committee and the nomination committee are all comprised solely of independent non-executive directors. Audit Committee The members of our audit committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Dr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The audit committee’s major responsibilities include: • to review the financial reports, the related report of independent registered public accounting firm and management’s responses to the reports; • to discuss the audit procedures with the independent registered public accounting firm as well as any issues arising out of such procedures; • to review the appointment of the independent registered public accounting firm, the audit and non-audit fees and any matters relating to the termination or resignation of the independent registered public accounting firm; and 51 Table of Contents • to examine the effectiveness of our internal controls, to review our internal audit plan and to submit relevant reports and recommendations to our Board on a regular basis. The audit committee usually meets four times each year. Remuneration Committee The members of our remuneration committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Dr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The remuneration committee’s major responsibilities include: • to advise the Board in relation to the remuneration structure and payments of our executive directors and executives; and • to represent the Board in confirming the individual remuneration packages and employment terms of executive directors and approving their related employment contracts. Meetings of the remuneration committee are held at least once a year. Nomination Committee The members of our nomination committee are Dr. Lo Ka Shui, as chairman of the committee, Mr. Frank K.S. Wong and Dr. Moses M.C. Cheng. The primary responsibilities of the nomination committee include: • to review, advise and make recommendations to the board on the matters in relation to the appointment and re-appointment of board members; and • to ensure the proper and transparent procedures for the appointment and re-appointment of directors. Meetings of the nomination committee are held at least once a year. As a foreign private issuer (as defined in Rule 3b-4 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), we are permitted to follow home country practices in lieu of some of the corporate governance practices required to be followed by U.S. companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As a result, our corporate governance practices differ in some respects from those required to be followed by U.S. companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Employees See “