RISK FACTORS We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. You should carefully consider each of the risks and uncertainties we describe below and all of the other information in this Form 20-F before deciding to invest in our bearer shares or ADSs. The risks and uncertainties we describe below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Technological Change and Research and Development If technological change makes our products obsolete, we will no longer be able to sell our products and our revenues will decline Pharmaceutical and biotechnology development is characterized by significant and rapid technological change. Research and discoveries by others, including possible developments of which we are not currently aware, may make our products and those from which we derive royalty income obsolete. If technological changes make our products obsolete, doctors will be less likely to prescribe our products, and sales of our products will be reduced. We may not realize the full market potential of our current products and products under development Our long-term growth will depend on our ability to realize the full market potential of our current products and to develop and commercialize new products. Biotechnology product development is highly uncertain and depends on numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. We currently have more than 25 post-discovery projects in preclinical or clinical development. Products that appear promising in the early phases of development may fail to reach the market for numerous reasons, including, but not limited to the following: •Development of products may be stopped due to a variety of reasons, such as lack of efficacy, potentially harmful side effects, an unexpected or unfavorable risk-benefit analysis and/or evolution of the competitive environment. For example, in April 2005, the efficacy observed for onercept was less than that observed in the earlier Phase II study and with other available treatments. Consequently, the clinical development program for onercept in moderate-to-severe psoriasis was discontinued. In April 2005 and October 2005, respectively, the development of Canvaxin for Stage IV and Stage III melanoma was discontinued due to the unlikelihood that the data for the candidate product would provide sufficient evidence of a survival benefit versus placebo. •We may not successfully complete clinical trials for our products within any specific time period, or at all, for a variety of reasons, such as our inability to attract a sufficient number of investigators, our inability to enroll and maintain a sufficient number of patients in the clinical trials and suspension of the trials by regulatory authorities. •Products may fail to receive necessary regulatory approvals for any of the indications requested by us in our applications. •New products may fail due to limited experience by Serono in a new therapeutic area. For example, Serono has recently expanded its therapeutic areas to include oncology indications and autoimmune diseases. Oncology and autoimmune diseases are highly competitive fields. •Products may turn out to be uneconomical to commercialize because of manufacturing costs or other factors. The above factors are important, not only with respect to new drugs, but also with respect to new indications for existing drugs, because we may fail to obtain regulatory approval for each new indication 7 and market acceptance for indications may vary. These factors may also lead to gaps in the product development pipeline and delays between the approval of one product and approval of the next new product. Risks Related to Our Products and Markets We face growing and new competition that may reduce our likelihood of market success We operate in a highly competitive environment. This competition may become more intense as commercial applications for biotechnology products increase. Our principal competitors are pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. Some of our competitors may discover, develop, acquire or commercialize new products sooner or more successfully than we do. For example, Biogen Idec and its partner Elan, competitors in the neurology field, could reintroduce Tysabri (natalizumab) onto the market. The reintroduction of this product and any advantageous changes to their label could place additional competitive pressure on Rebif. Small biotechnology companies, academic institutions, governmental agencies and other public and private research organizations conduct a significant amount of research and development in the biotechnology field. These entities may seek patent protection and enter into licensing arrangements to collect royalties for the use of technology they have developed. We face competition in licensing activities from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies that also seek to acquire technologies from the same entities. If we are not able to compete effectively with these entities to acquire technology, this may adversely impact or block our ability to develop new products relying on the technology covered in such patent. We may revise the labeling for our products from time to time, which may harm sales of our products We may be required to change the labeling for our products for a variety of reasons, such as to include new safety or efficacy data from clinical trials or post-marketing surveillance, to reflect experiential use following a period of commercialization, or to stay current with evolving regulatory policy or clinical practice. Prescribers of our products may interpret such changes in various ways that could influence their decisions on initiation, or on their further use or discontinuance of these products. If prescribers interpret changes in the labeling of our products in ways that cause them to decrease or cease prescribing those products, we may not be able to continue our current level of sales, grow sales, or experience declining sales. For example, in May 2005 we updated the package insert for Novantrone to provide information regarding possible side effects reported in patients taking the treatment and to include recommendations for increased cardiac monitoring. If we encounter problems with any of our key suppliers or service providers, we could experience higher costs of sales, delays in our manufacturing or loss of revenues Other companies produce raw materials necessary for the manufacture of some of our products, as well as some of our products themselves. As a result, we are subject to the risk that some of the products we sell may have manufacturing defects that we cannot control. For example, in 2005 we experienced a significant increase in customer complaints related to our click.easy II device used to reconstitute Saizen. The source of the problem has been identified at the supplier and, although no recall of the device was required in 2005, an enhanced version is now being manufactured in replacement of the original device. In some cases, we cite our third party sources specifically in our drug applications with regulatory authorities and accordingly we must obtain those materials or products as specified. We also use subcontractors for certain services, and in some cases the subcontracts are with sole- or limited-source suppliers. For example, Owen Mumford is the exclusive provider of the injection device Rebiject for use with Rebif, our largest selling product. Our subcontractors may also be registered with the 8 regulatory authorities, so we would have to obtain regulatory approval in order to use a different subcontractor. If such services were no longer available, or no longer available at a reasonable cost, from those suppliers, we would need to find new subcontractors. As another example, one of our suppliers of a critical ingredient in our cell-culture media announced in 2005 that it could discontinue production of the ingredient in 2006. In this specific case, we believe sufficient notice has been given for timely replacement of such ingredient as we have subsequently increased the inventory. However, there is no guarantee that our other suppliers or service providers will give us ample notice in the event they discontinue production of a material or a service required to manufacture our products. If our suppliers experience manufacturing defects or if we have to find and register alternative raw material, product or service suppliers, we may experience significant delays in our ability to manufacture or sell our products and incur significant expense or fail to realize significant revenues. Resale of our biotechnology products within the European Union may cause our sales and gross profit margin to decline In an effort to create a single economic sphere and reduce barriers to the mobility of commercial products, the European Union has interpreted its competition and patent laws to permit the resale of various products, including biotechnology products. In 2005, $1,038.3 million (44.4%) of our product sales were in Western Europe. Once we place our products in the stream of commerce in the European Union, we have limited ways of preventing third-party distributors from re-packaging, and then reselling, our products in any other country of the European Union. Our prices vary across the European Union, principally as a function of different government policies regarding product pricing and reimbursement. Third-party distributors may purchase our products in markets within the European Union where our prices are lower, and then re-sell our products in countries where prices are higher. As a result, we face competition from third-party distributors that resell our products into these latter countries. We do not have the right to be the exclusive seller of our products within the European Union, nor do our patent rights protect us from third-party distributors re-selling our products in this manner. As a result, we cannot prevent a shift in sales to markets in which we realize lower unit sales prices for our products. If we sell a larger percentage of our products into these markets, our sales and gross profit margin will decline. Competition from generic drugs, follow-on biologics ("biosimilars") and products sold for non-approved uses could reduce our sales growth We face competition from generic products, biosimilar drugs (known as follow-on protein products in the United States) and products sold for non-approved uses. For example, competition may come from generic manufacturers who rely on the registration files of products already granted regulatory approval and can therefore sell at a lower price. The patent for Novantrone (mitoxantrone) for the oncology indication will expire in April 2006 and it is anticipated that other manufacturers will introduce their generic products at or after that time. Two generic manufacturers have already received a tentative approval from the FDA for mitoxantrone and these generic entrants may erode revenue for the Novantrone brand, causing our sales to decrease. We may also face competition from the introduction of biosimilar products. For example, the biosimilar growth hormone omnitrope which may provide competition for Saizen was recently approved in Australia. Biosimilar products are not the exact composition of our biotechnology products but instead are similar in molecular weight and protein structure only. Furthermore, Serostim faces competition from drugs prescribed by physicians who may prescribe competing human growth hormone products to treat HIV-associated wasting although, as indicated by their labeling, regulators have not approved these products for this indication. We may lose market 9 share to these alternative therapies and non-approved usages and we may consequently not be able to maintain our current level of sales. Sales of counterfeit products may damage our reputation and cause customers to lose faith in our products As a manufacturer of biotechnology products, we are subject to the risk that third parties will attempt to create counterfeit versions of our products and sell the counterfeits as our products. For example, in 2001 and 2002, we discovered that a counterfeit product was being sold as Serostim in the United States. Counterfeit products are not approved by the respective regulatory authorities and therefore cannot be considered safe for use. Although we have since instituted the Serono Secured Distribution Program further described in Item 4 "Information on the Company," and the U.S. government continues its investigation and has prosecuted individuals and pharmacies involved in the manufacture and distribution of counterfeit Serostim, if any counterfeit products are sold as ours, our reputation could suffer and patients could lose faith in our products. In addition, our products could be subject to recall in the event of counterfeit sales where we are unable to distinguish it from the counterfeit. If patients lose faith in our products or we are forced to recall any of our products as a result of the counterfeiting of those products, our sales could decline. Reliance on third party distributors, wholesalers and pharmacies to distribute and sell our products may negatively impact our product sales. In certain countries including the United States, we rely on third parties, such as distributors, wholesalers and pharmacies, to distribute our products. Reliance on third parties exposes us to various potential risks in the event of a disruption or termination of such relationship. For example, in June 2005, we entered into a strategic services agreement with Priority Healthcare Corporation. As part of the agreement, Priority's Freedom Drug unit became our preferred specialty pharmacy ("Freedom Fertility Pharmacy") for the distribution of our reproductive health products in the United States, which means that, with certain limited exceptions, they are the only specialty pharmacy with which we have a contractual relationship for the sale of our reproductive health products. Priority Healthcare Corporation subsequently was acquired by Express Scripts, Inc. in October 2005. Such a distribution model exposes us to risk should Express Scripts be unable or decide not to maintain its obligations under our agreement. If a disruption in our relationship with Express Scripts occurs, our reproductive health sales could decline. Risks Related to Our Sources of Revenue If sales of any of our major products decline, our profitability would be reduced In 2005 Rebif, our recombinant beta interferon, accounted for 54.3% ($1,269.8 million) of our total product sales. Rebif faces competition from Avonex and Betaseron, other recombinant beta interferon products, from Copaxone, another drug used in multiple sclerosis, from Novantrone in worsening MS and potentially from Tysabri, which was marketed in the United States in the first quarter of 2005 and may be re-introduced to the market. Rebif also faces competition from off-label use of other therapies. If Tysabri is introduced, it may increase the competitive pressure on current MS treatments and could impact Rebif sales growth rate. Because our business is highly dependent on Rebif, a reduction in revenue from sales of Rebif would have a significant impact on our overall profitability. Further, in 2005, Gonal-f, our recombinant follicle-stimulating hormone, accounted for 23.4% ($547.0 million) of our total product sales. Gonal-f faces competition from Puregon (marketed in the United States as Follistim), another recombinant product, and a variety of other FSH products. Because our business is highly dependent on Gonal-f, a reduction in revenue from sales of Gonal-f would have a significant impact on our overall profitability. 10 Our revenues are dependent on reimbursement from third-party payers who could reduce their reimbursement rates In most of our markets, sales of our products are, or may be in part, dependent on the availability of reimbursement from third-party payers. These payers include state and national governments, such as the national health services in many European Union countries and Medicaid and Medicare programs in the United States and private insurance plans. When a new product is approved, the reimbursement status and rate for the product is uncertain and must be negotiated with third-party payers in each European country, a process that can take up to several years. In addition, reimbursement and/or policies for existing products may change at any time. Changes in reimbursement rates or our failure to obtain and maintain reimbursement for our products may reduce the demand for, or the price of, our products and result in lower product sales or revenues. For example, in 2004 the Federal Republic of Germany, Europe's largest pharmaceutical market, announced an across-the-board reduction of 10% in reimbursement rates for all pharmaceuticals, including our products. The 10% reduction was subsequently reduced to 6% in 2005. In certain markets, the pricing and reimbursement of our products are subject to government controls. In Europe, some third-party payers link the reimbursement price to maximum quantities of the product sold in a given year. Single payer medical insurance systems, which are predominant in Europe, are under increasing financial strain, which creates an incentive to decrease the amount that such systems will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs. In the United States, there have been, and we expect there will continue to be, a number of state and federal proposals that limit the amount that state or federal governments will pay to reimburse the cost of drugs, and we believe the increasing emphasis on managed care will put pressure on the price and usage of our products, which may impact product sales. For example, in 2001 and 2002 many states in the United States imposed prior authorization requirements for the purchase of certain drugs under Medicaid, including Serostim. In 2006, we expect changes to Medicaid and Medicare in the United States. Medicare will offer a pharmacy benefit through Managed Care plans. States are coming under increasing pressure to reduce pharmacy costs in their Medicaid Programs. Manufacturers will be asked to bid, or offer discounts to be listed on Managed Care or Medicaid formularies. If our products are not put on approved formulary lists, or in a competitive position on these lists, our yearly sales may decrease. Not all jurisdictions recognize the importance of infertility treatment and accordingly do not offer reimbursement coverage for such treatment. In addition, in some countries the extent of reimbursement may be affected by local public policy and ethical concerns about certain therapies, such as in vitro fertilization. Third-party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for products we discover, develop and register. If third-party payers do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our products, the market acceptance of these products may be significantly reduced. For example, in 2004, Italy restricted the reimbursement in fertility treatments under Legge 19-02-2004, n. 40, Norme in materia di procreazione medicalmente assistita. A significant percentage of our net income is dependent on royalty and license payments that are beyond our control We derive a significant percentage of our net income from royalty and license income. Our royalty and license income was $247.5 million in 2005 and $280.1 million in 2004, relating primarily to royalties received from Biogen Idec on its sales of Avonex, Organon on its sales of Puregon, Amgen (formerly Immunex) on its sales of Enbrel, and Abbott on its sales of Humira. Our receipt of these payments is largely dependent on the successful development and sale of products by other companies over which we have no control or against which we compete. In addition, some of these revenues are dependent on patents that may be invalidated or expired. If these parties are not successful at developing and 11 selling their products or our underlying patents are no longer in force, our net income could decline. Furthermore, the royalty income that we record each quarter is based on estimated income from third parties. This income may be different from the actual payments we receive from third parties. Foreign exchange fluctuations could significantly impact the U.S. dollar value of our revenues and expenses Our operations are conducted by subsidiaries in many countries, and the results of operations and the financial position of each of those subsidiaries are reported in the relevant currency and then translated into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rate for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, our reported sales figures may differ substantially from our sales figures as measured in local currencies. Conversely, our reported expenses may also differ substantially from our expenses as measured in local currencies. Due to this translation effect, the prevailing foreign exchange rate could cause our net income growth rate to not meet expectations. Again, if our sales figures or our net income do not meet market expectations, our stock price could decline. Risks Related to Government Regulation Governmental regulations may restrict our ability to sell our products, which could result in a loss of revenues and a decrease in our stock price Our research, preclinical testing, clinical trials, facilities, manufacturing, labeling, pricing, and sales and marketing are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental authorities, including authorities in the European Union, such as the European Medicines Agency called EMEA, Switzerland, as well as governmental authorities in the United States, such as the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA. Our research and development activities are subject to laws regulating such activities as laboratory practices and the use and disposal of potentially hazardous materials including radioactive compounds and infectious disease agents. We are also required to obtain and maintain regulatory approval to market products for approved indications in the European Union, the United States, Japan and other markets. Obtaining regulatory approval is a lengthy and complex process. For example, though we have obtained regulatory approval to sell Gonal-f in more than 90 countries including the United States and the countries of the European Union, in order to obtain regulatory approval to sell the product in Japan we were required to conduct additional local clinical studies. Additionally, even if we are able to obtain regulatory approval for our products, both our manufacturing processes and our marketed products are subject to continued review. Later discovery of previously unknown problems with the safety or efficacy of our products or manufacturing processes may result in restrictions on these products or processes, including withdrawal of the products from the market or suspension of our manufacturing operations. Pharmaceutical usage guidelines may recommend lower use of our products If government agencies or other respected groups or organizations recommend reducing the use of one of our products, our sales of that product could drop and our revenues could be reduced. In addition, professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations and organizations involved in various diseases may also publish guidelines or recommendations to the health care and patient communities. These organizations may make recommendations that affect a patient's usage of certain therapies, drugs or procedures, including our products. Such decisions may also influence prescription guidelines for our products issued in other countries. Recommendations or guidelines that are followed by patients and health care providers could result in, among other things, decreased use of our products. For example the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE) in the U.K. systematically issues guidelines in selected therapeutic areas which may limit prescription of our products. On September 30, 2005, NICE published on its website an appraisal on the use of Raptiva 12 and Enbrel for treatment in adults with moderate or severe psoriasis. Although the guidance acknowledges that Raptiva is cost-effective, it indicates that Raptiva should be used by patients only if their psoriasis has failed to respond to current systemic therapies and to Enbrel, or if they are shown to be intolerant of, or have contraindications to, treatment with such therapies. Potential regulation of the use of biological materials could make production of our products more expensive or not possible We use biological materials, in particular animal-derived materials, in the development and manufacture of some of our products. Some interest groups in the European Union and the United States are seeking to ban or regulate the use of animal-derived materials generally, including their use in biotechnology products and for research and development. Although we are developing manufacturing processes for our major products that will eliminate the utilization of animal-derived components, we may not be successful in that development in all processes and we cannot be certain that regulatory authorities will approve the new processes. If a government were to ban or regulate our use of animal-derived materials, we would incur additional costs that could make the production of our products less profitable or economically impractical, or we could have to cease production of certain of our products, which could cause our net income to decline. If we fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations, we could be subject to serious sanctions or reputational damage If we or our employees do not comply with the laws and regulations within the countries in which we do business, we could be subject to serious sanctions or reputational damage. For example, in April 2005, we announced a charge of $725.0 million related to the previously reported U.S. Attorney's Office investigation of Serostim. The investigation was settled with the U.S. federal and state authorities for $716.9 million including accrued interest of $12.9 million. As an additional result of the settlement, in October 2005, Serono Holding, Inc. entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the United States to promote compliance with the statutes, regulations and written directives of Medicare, Medicaid and all other federal health care programs. Under this agreement, which is effective for five years from October 14, 2005, Serono Holding, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates (for these purposes "Serono") are subject to certain administrative requirements and are required to maintain a comprehensive compliance program, including a written code of conduct, training programs, regulatory compliance policies and procedures, annual audits and periodic reporting to the U.S. government. The corporate integrity agreement permits the U.S. government to exclude Serono from participation in the U.S. federal health care programs if there is a material breach of the agreement that we do not cure within thirty days after we receive notice of such breach. Such exclusion would significantly decrease our revenue and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further litigation and other governmental investigation matters which are required to be disclosed by us are set forth in Item 8 "Legal Proceedings" of this filing and are updated as required in our quarterly releases. Risks Related to Legal Uncertainty If we are not able to defend our intellectual property rights, we may lose the competitive advantage they give us Our long-term success depends largely on our ability to market technologically competitive products. The patents and patent applications relating to our products and the technologies from which we derive license revenue may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties and might not protect us against competitors with similar products or technology. Any challenge to or invalidation or circumvention of patents related to products produced using licenses we have granted could affect 13 our licensing revenues. If we are unable to prevent unauthorized third parties from using proprietary rights relating to our products, we will not be able to realize the full value of our research investment, and we will lose a source of competitive advantage. Even if our patents are not invalidated or circumvented, each of them will eventually expire. The competitive position of a number of our products is dependent on various patents. We believe that these patents discourage other companies from entering our markets. Certain of these patents also allow us to realize licensing revenue from competitors whose products would otherwise infringe these patents. If we cannot defend these patents, other companies could sell products that directly compete with our products. Moreover, the patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual issues. Important legal issues remain to be resolved as to the extent and scope of available patent protection for biotechnology products and processes in the European Union, the United States and other important markets. To date, no consistent policy has emerged regarding the breadth of claims allowed in pharmaceutical and biotechnology patents. As a result, it is difficult for us to assess the amount of protection our patents provide for our competitive position. We rely on trade secrets and trademarks to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection not to be appropriate or obtainable. We protect our proprietary technology and processes, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our key employees, consultants, collaborators and contractors. These agreements may be breached, or we may have inadequate remedies for any breach, or our trade secrets or those of our collaborators or contractors may otherwise become known or be discovered independently by competitors. If we do not have access to the intellectual property we need for our business, our ability to develop and market our products may be limited We are aware that others, including various universities and companies working in the biotechnology field, have filed patent applications and have been granted patents in the European Union, the United States and other jurisdictions claiming subject matter potentially useful or necessary to our business. Some of those patents and applications claim only specific products or methods of making such products, while others claim more general processes or techniques useful or now used in the biotechnology industry, either alone or in combination with other products. For example, Berlex Laboratories and Schering AG own three U.S. patents that they have asserted cover the recombinant manufacture of interferon beta. Following the filing by us of a declaratory judgment action against Berlex and Schering AG asserting that we do not infringe their patent rights, we settled with them and agreed to make a one-time payment to Berlex and pay Berlex royalties on our U.S. sales of Rebif in the United States until 2008. Litigation and administrative proceedings, which could result in substantial costs to us, may be necessary to enforce any patents issued to us or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. We have in the past been, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation. If we lose one of these proceedings, we may be required to obtain third-party licenses at a material cost or cease using the technology or product in dispute. If others have or obtain patents or proprietary rights with respect to products we currently are developing, we may not be able to continue to research and develop our products profitably. If we are unable to enforce our patents, we may lose competitive advantage or marketing revenue. 14 Risks Related to Our Share Price and Corporate Control The value of dividends on our ADSs will be affected by exchange rates We declare and pay dividends on our bearer shares in Swiss francs. Exchange rate fluctuations between the Swiss franc and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar value of dividends that holders of our ADSs will receive. Our controlling shareholders may have interests that are adverse to yours As of December 31, 2005, Bertarelli Biotech S.A., a corporation with its principal offices at Chéserex (Vaud), Switzerland, held 57.18% of our capital, including treasury shares, and 67.09% of our voting rights. Ernesto Bertarelli, our Vice-Chairman, Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, controls Bertarelli Biotech S.A. In addition, Maria-Iris Bertarelli, Ernesto Bertarelli and Donata Bertarelli Späth own as individuals in the aggregate 4.79% of our capital, including treasury shares, and 8.61% of our voting rights. The members of the Bertarelli family may in the future, through open market purchases or otherwise, acquire additional shares. Ernesto Bertarelli, through his control of Bertarelli Biotech S.A. and his ownership of additional shares, currently controls the management of our company and the outcome of all actions requiring the approval of our shareholders. In addition, Mr. Bertarelli and the Bertarelli family control enough votes that they can cause us to increase our share capital, change our corporate purposes and create shares with privileged voting rights. This could have the effect of diluting the voting rights and ownership of our other investors and of maintaining the control of Mr. Bertarelli and the Bertarelli family. In November 2005, we issued a press release that Goldman Sachs had been retained to explore strategic alternatives for the company. These strategic options could include the sale of the company. If as a result of this process, a deal is not successfully completed, it is not known how the markets will interpret such an event and it is possible that the market reaction could cause our share price to decrease. Conversely, if a deal were completed and the entire stock of our company held by the Bertarelli family were sold to one purchaser, under Swiss law, the acquirer would have to submit a takeover bid to all the remaining shareholders because the acquisition would involve more than 331/3% of the voting rights of a listed Swiss corporation. In such a case, according to Swiss law, the offered price would have to be at least equivalent to the average stock market price of the last thirty days prior to the offer, but could be up to 25 % less than the highest price paid by the bidder for shares of the company within the last twelve months. It may not be possible to enforce judgments of United States courts against the members of our board of directors We are a Swiss stock corporation. Most of our directors are not residents of the United States. In addition, a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of our board members are located outside the United States. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States on us or on our directors, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in the United States courts based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States. In addition, awards of punitive damages in actions brought in the United States or elsewhere may be unenforceable in Switzerland. 15 Risks Related to Forward-Looking Statements Our actual results may differ from forward-looking statements that we make in this Form 20-F Many statements made under Items 3, 4 and 5 of this Form 20-F and elsewhere are forward-looking statements relating to future events and/or future performance, including, without limitation, statements regarding our expectations, beliefs, intentions or future strategies that are signified by the words "expects," "anticipates," "intends," "believes," "plans" or similar language. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, the factors set forth in this "Risk Factors" section. We caution you that these forward-looking statements, which may deal with subjects such as our research and development plans, our marketing strategies, our planned regulatory approvals, our planned relationships with our research collaborators, the development of our business, the markets for our products, our anticipated capital expenditures, the possible impacts of regulatory requirements and other matters that are not historical facts, are only predictions and estimates regarding future events and circumstances. All forward-looking statements included in this document are based on information available to us on the date of this Form 20-F, and we undertake no obligation to update these forward-looking statements to reflect events occurring after the date of this Form 20-F. You should carefully consider the information set forth in this section in addition to the other information set forth in this Form 20-F before deciding whether to invest in our bearer shares or ADSs. 