Item 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS From time to time, information provided by us, including but not limited to statements in this report, or other statements made by or on our behalf, may contain “forward-looking” information within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties, and contingencies, many of which are beyond our control, which may cause actual results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those anticipated. Set forth below are important factors that could cause our results, performance, or achievements to differ materially from those in any forward-looking statements made by us or on our behalf. Business Risks We may not be able to obtain an adequate supply of high quality raw materials. Our business depends on obtaining a reliable supply of various agricultural products, including chestnuts, vegetables, fruits, red meat, fish, eggs, rice, flour and packaging products. During 2008, the cost of our raw materials increased from $36,920,585 to $64,980,230, for an increase of approximately 76%. We may have to increase the number of our suppliers of raw materials and expand our own agricultural operations in the future to meet growing production demands. Despite our efforts to control our supply of raw materials and maintain good relationships with our suppliers, we could lose one or more of our suppliers at any time. The loss of several suppliers may be difficult to replace and could increase our reliance on higher cost or lower quality suppliers, which could negatively affect our profitability. In addition, if we have to increase the number of our suppliers of raw materials in the future to meet growing production demands, we may not be able to locate new suppliers who could provide us with sufficient materials to meet our needs. Any interruptions to, or decline in, the amount or quality of our raw materials supply could materially disrupt our production and adversely affect our business and financial condition and financial prospects. 15 The prices that we have paid for our raw materials recently have experienced significant fluctuation. If these price fluctuations continue, our profit margins may be materially adversely affected. The average price that we paid for chestnuts in 2007 and 2008 was approximately $787 per metric ton and $727 per metric ton, respectively, excluding value added taxes. We do not currently hedge against changes in our raw material prices. Consequently, if the costs of our raw materials increase further, and we are unable to offset these increases by raising the prices of our products, our profit margins and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our sales and reputation may be affected by product liability claims, litigation or, product recalls in relation to our products. The sale of products for human consumption involves an inherent risk of injury to consumers. We face risks associated with product liability claims, litigation, or product recalls, if our products cause injury or become adulterated or misbranded. Our products are subject to product tampering and contamination, such as mold, bacteria, insects, shell fragments and off-flavor contamination, during any of the procurement, production, transportation and storage processes. If any of our products were to be tampered with, or become tainted in any of these respects, and we were unable to detect this, our products could be subject to product liability claims or product recalls. Our ability to sell products could be reduced if certain pesticides, herbicides or other chemicals used by growers have left harmful residues on portions of our raw materials or if our raw materials have been contaminated by other agents. We have never had a product recall in the past but we have experienced product liability claims that were made by our customers. The amounts of such claims were immaterial. However, claims of product defect or product liability for material amounts, individually or in the aggregate, may be made in the future. We have not procured a product liability or general liability insurance policy for our business, as the insurance industry in China is still in an early stage of development. To the extent that we suffer a loss of a type which would normally be covered by product liability or general liability insurance in the United States, we would incur significant expenses in defending any action against us and in paying any claims that result from a settlement or judgment against us. Product liability claims and product recalls could have a material adverse effect on the demand for our products and on our business goodwill and reputation. Adverse publicity could result in a loss of consumer confidence in our products. We may be unable to manage future rapid growth. We have grown rapidly over the last few years. Our sales increased by 377% from $27,735,833 in 2004 to $132,360,317 in 2008. The number of product types we sold increased from approximately 100 in 2004 to approximately 234 in 2008. We intend to continue to expand the volume and variety of products we offer, as well as the geographical scope of our sales and production facilities. Our business growth could place a significant strain on our managerial, operational and financial resources. Our ability to manage future growth will depend on our ability to continue to implement and improve operational, financial and management information systems on a timely basis and to expand, train, motivate and manage our workforce. Our personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future growth. Failure to effectively manage our expansion may lead to increased costs, a decline in sales and reduced profitability. 16 Our expansion strategy may not prove successful and could adversely affect our existing business. Our growth strategy includes the expansion of our manufacturing operations, including new production lines and agricultural operations. We plan to expand our sales in China and internationally. We will need to engage in various forms of promotional and marketing activities in order to further develop the branding of our products and to increase our market share in new and existing markets. The implementation of this strategy may involve large transactions and present financial, managerial and operational challenges. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if any of our growth strategies incur problems of which we are not presently aware. If we fail to generate sufficient sales in new markets or increase our sales in existing markets, we may not be able to recover the production, distribution, promotional and marketing expenses, as well as administrative costs we have incurred in developing such markets. The acquisition of other businesses could pose risks to our profitability. We may try to grow through acquisitions in the future. Any proposed acquisition could result in accounting charges, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, and increased debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our existing business and the market price of our common stock. Acquisitions, in general, entail many risks, including risks relating to the failed integration of the acquired operations, diversion of management’s attention, and the potential loss of key employees of the acquired organizations. We may be unable to successfully integrate businesses or the personnel of any business that might be acquired in the future, and our failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and on the market price of our common stock. We are subject to risks of doing business internationally. If the international market does not grow as we expect, our business and financial condition may be adversely affected. We conduct a substantial amount of business internationally. Our export sales destinations include countries in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and North America. Our international operations are subject to a number of inherent risks, including: chestnut products may not be widely recognized internationally, especially in Western countries; local economic and political conditions, including disruptions in trading markets; restrictive foreign governmental actions, including restrictions on transfers of funds and trade; protection measures, including export duties and quotas and customs tariffs; currency exchange rate fluctuations; earthquakes, tsunamis, floods or other major disasters may limit the imported food products; and unexpected incidents related to food safety. 17 Any of the foregoing risks could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. A significant amount of our revenues is dependent on a limited number of customers and the loss of any one of our major customers could materially and adversely affect our growth and our revenues. A significant portion of our revenues has historically been derived from a limited number of customers, particularly in our chestnut products segment. Sales to our five largest customers accounted for approximately 43%, 31% and 25% of our total revenues in 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. The loss of any one of these customers, or a material decrease in purchases by any one of these customers, could adversely impact our revenues. We rely primarily on distributors to sell our products. Any delays in delivery or poor handling by our distributors or third-party transport operators may affect our sales and damage our reputation. In 2008, we sold our products through over 30 distribution service providers. The services provided by these providers could be suspended and could cause interruption to the supply of our products to domestic or overseas customers. Delivery disruptions may occur for various reasons beyond our control, including poor handling by service providers or third party transport operators, transportation bottlenecks, natural disasters and labor strikes, and could lead to delayed, damaged or lost deliveries. If our products are not delivered in a timely manner, our reputation could be harmed. If our products are damaged in the process of being delivered, we may be liable to pay for such damages incurred. Failure of the market to accept our new products, or failure to obtain regulatory approval for our new products, may cause us to lose our competitive position in the food industry. We introduced 20 new products in 2007 and 52 new products in 2008. We plan to introduce about 20 new products in 2009. The success of the new products we introduce depends on our ability to anticipate the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences. We intend to introduce new products as well as alternative flavors, sizes and packaging for our existing products. We may not be able to gain market acceptance for our new products. Consumer preferences change, and any new products that we introduce may fail to meet the particular tastes or requirements of consumers, or may be unable to replace their existing preferences. Our failure to anticipate, identify or react to these particular tastes or changes could result in reduced demand for our products, which could in turn cause us to be unable to recover our development, production and marketing costs. We are dependent on certain key personnel and loss of these key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our research and development, operations and revenue. The Lorain Group Companies were founded in 1995 by Si Chen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Chen, together with other senior management, has been a key driver of our strategy and has been fundamental to our achievements to date. The successful management of our business is, to a considerable extent, dependent on the services of Mr. Chen and other senior management. We compete for qualified personnel with other food processing companies, food retailers and research institutions. Consequently, we may either lose key employees to our competitors or we may need to significantly increase the compensation of such employees in order to retain them. The loss of the services of any key management employee or failure to recruit a suitable or comparable replacement could have a significant impact upon our ability to manage our business effectively, and our business and future growth may be adversely affected. 18 We face increasing competition from domestic and foreign companies. The food industry in China is fragmented. Our ability to compete against other national and international enterprises is, to a significant extent, dependent on our ability to distinguish our products from those of our competitors by providing large volumes of high quality products that appeal to consumers’ tastes and preferences at reasonable prices. Some of our competitors have been in business longer than we have and are more established. Our competitors may provide products comparable or superior to those we provide or adapt more quickly than we do to evolving industry trends or changing market requirements. Increased competition may result in price reductions, higher raw materials prices, reduced margins and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our profit margins. An increase in the cost of energy could affect our profitability. Recently, we have experienced significant increases in energy costs, and energy costs could continue to rise, which would result in higher distribution, freight and other operating costs. Our future operating expenses and margins will be dependent on our ability to manage the impact of cost increases. Our products are subject to counterfeiting or imitation, which could impact our reputation. To date, we have experienced limited counterfeiting and imitation of our products. However, counterfeiting or imitation of our products may occur in the future and we may not be able to detect it and deal with it effectively. Any occurrence of counterfeiting or imitation could impact negatively upon our reputation, particularly if the counterfeit or imitation products cause sickness, or injury to consumers. In addition, counterfeit or imitation products could result in our need to incur costs with respect to the detection or prosecution of such activities. We rely on an outside contractor to provide a majority of our labor. We have hired Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company to provide employees to our production facilities. Should Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company be unable to continue to provide the number of employees we need, our production could be disrupted. In addition, Linyi Zhifu Labor Service Company could raise their service fees or terminate their relationship with us in the future, which may result in increased production costs. Regulatory Risks We are subject to extensive regulations by the Chinese government. The food industry is subject to extensive regulations by Chinese government agencies. Among other things, these regulations govern the manufacturing, importation, processing, packaging, storage, exportation, distribution and labeling of our products. New or amended statutes and regulations, increased production at our existing facilities, and our expansion into new operations and jurisdictions may require us to obtain new licenses and permits and could require us to change our methods of operations at costs that could be substantial. 19 Our failure to comply with PRC environmental laws may require us to incur significant costs. We carry on our business in an industry that is subject to PRC environmental protection laws and regulations. These laws and regulations require enterprises engaged in manufacturing and construction that may cause environmental waste to adopt effective measures to control such waste. In addition, such enterprises are required to pay fines, or to cease operations entirely under extreme circumstances, should they discharge waste substances. The Chinese government may also change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which we may be unable to pass on to our customers through higher prices for our products. Our failure to comply with PRC hygiene laws may require us to incur significant costs. Manufacturers in the Chinese food industry are subject to compliance with PRC food hygiene laws and regulations. These food hygiene laws require all enterprises engaged in the production of chestnuts and various vegetables and fruits to obtain a hygiene license for each of their production facilities. Such laws also require manufacturers to comply with regulations with respect to food, food additives, packaging, and food production sites, facilities and equipment. Failure to comply with PRC food hygiene laws may result in fines, suspension of operations, loss of hygiene licenses and, in more extreme cases, criminal proceedings against an enterprise and its management. The Chinese government may also change the existing laws or regulations or impose additional or stricter laws or regulations, compliance with which may cause us to incur significant capital expenditures, which we may be unable to pass on to our customers through higher prices for our products. Financial Risks Our operations are cash intensive, and our business could be adversely affected if we fail to maintain sufficient levels of working capital. We spend a significant amount of cash on our operations, principally to procure raw materials for our products. Many of our suppliers, including chestnut, vegetable and fruit farmers, and suppliers of packaging materials, do not allow us to pay on credit. However, some of the suppliers with whom we have a long-standing business relationship allow us to pay on credit. In 2008, we paid for approximately 10% of our raw materials on credit. We fund the majority of our working capital requirements out of cash flow generated from operations. If we fail to generate sufficient sales, or if our suppliers stop offering us credit terms, we may not have sufficient liquidity to fund our operating costs and our business could be adversely affected. We also fund approximately 40% of our working capital requirements from the proceeds of short-term loans from Chinese banks. We expect to continue to do so in the future. Such loans are generally secured by our fixed assets, receivables and/or guarantees by third parties. Our average loan balance from short-term bank loans in 2008 was approximately $24 million. The term of almost all such loans is one year or less. Historically, we have rolled over such loans on an annual basis. However, we may not have sufficient funds available to pay all of our borrowings upon maturity. Failure to roll over our short-term borrowings at maturity or to service our debt could result in the imposition of penalties, including increases in rates of interest, legal actions against us by our creditors, or even insolvency. In addition, in 2007 and 2008, we funded approximately $3.8 million, in the aggregate, of our working capital requirements from the proceeds of a private placement transaction conducted in May 2007. We can provide no assurances that we will be able to enter into any future financing or refinancing agreements on terms favorable to us, especially considering the current instability of the capital markets. 20 Management anticipates that our existing capital resources and cash flows from operations and current and expected short-term bank loans will be adequate to satisfy our liquidity requirements through 2009. However, if available liquidity is not sufficient to meet our operating and loan obligations as they come due, our plans include considering pursuing alternative financing arrangements or further reducing expenditures as necessary to meet our cash requirements. However, there is no assurance that, if required, we will be able to raise additional capital or reduce discretionary spending to provide the required liquidity. Currently, the capital markets for small capitalization companies are extremely difficult and banking institutions have become stringent in their lending requirements. Accordingly, we cannot be sure of the availability or terms of any third party financing. The current economic and financial crisis may have a material adverse effect on our results. The crisis of the financial and credit markets worldwide in the second half of 2008 has led to a severe economic recession worldwide, and the outlook for 2009 is uncertain. A continuation or worsening of unfavorable economic conditions, including the ongoing credit and capital markets disruptions, could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways. For example, we may experience declines in revenues, profitability and cash flows as a result of reduced orders, delays in receiving orders, delays or defaults in payment or other factors caused by the economic problems of our customers and prospective customers. We may experience supply chain delays, disruptions or other problems associated with financial constraints faced by our suppliers and subcontractors. In addition, changes and volatility in the equity, credit and foreign exchange markets and in the competitive landscape make it increasingly difficult for us to predict our revenues and earnings into the future. We are subject to credit risk in respect of account receivables. In 2007 and 2008, some of our customers, including some of our large supermarket customers, delayed their payments for up to 60 to 90 days beyond their term. Our cash flow suffered while waiting for such payments. Consequently, at times we had to delay payments to our suppliers and to postpone business expansion as a result of these delayed payments. In 2008, we shortened credit terms for many of our international and domestic distributors from between 30 and 180 days to between 30 and 60 days. Our large customers may fail to meet these shortened credit terms, in which case we may not have sufficient cash flow to fund our operating costs and our business could be adversely affected. The discontinuation of any preferential tax treatment or other incentives currently available to us in the PRC could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our subsidiaries are entitled to certain special or preferential tax treatments regarding foreign enterprise income tax in accordance with the “Income Tax Law of the PRC for Enterprises with Foreign Investment and Foreign Enterprises” and related rules. Accordingly, we have been entitled to tax concessions whereby the profit for the first two financial years beginning with the first profit-making year (after setting off tax losses carried forward from prior years) is exempt from income tax in the PRC and the profit for each of the subsequent three financial years is taxed at 50% of the prevailing tax rates set by the relevant tax authorities. However, on March 16, 2007, the PRC’s National People’s Congress passed a new corporate income tax law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. This new corporate income tax unifies the corporate income tax rate, cost deduction and tax incentive policies for both domestic and foreign-invested enterprises. According to the new corporate income tax law, the applicable corporate income tax rate of our operating subsidiaries has been increased to a rate of 25% over a five-year grandfather period. This tax rate increase applies across the board, for all enterprises whether domestic or foreign. The PRC government has established a set of transition rules to allow enterprises that already started tax holidays before January 1, 2008, to continue utilizing the tax holidays until fully utilized. The discontinuation of any such special or preferential tax treatment or other incentives could have an adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 21 In addition, under current PRC tax law, regulations and rulings, dividends from our operations in China paid to us are not currently subject to PRC income tax. If these distributions become subject to tax in the future, our net income would be adversely affected. We may enter into additional financing agreements which may have a dilutive effect to our earnings per share and the rights of certain stockholders. Additional financings could result in significant dilution to our earnings per share or the issuance of securities with rights superior to our current outstanding securities. For instance, we may grant registration rights to investors purchasing our equity or debt securities in the future. We may be unable to raise additional capital. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we may be unable to implement our long-term business plan, develop or enhance our products and services, take advantage of future opportunities or respond to competitive pressures on a timely basis, if at all. In addition, a lack of additional financing could force us to substantially curtail or cease operations. We may be exposed to potential risks relating to our internal control over financial reporting and our ability to have such controls attested to by our independent auditors. The SEC, under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring public companies to provide in their annual reports on Form 10-K a report by management with respect to the company’s disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. We are currently required to comply with this requirement. In addition, such rules require the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a company’s financial statements to attest to the operating effectiveness of such company’s internal controls. However, we are not subject to the requirements of SOX 404(b) until our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. We can provide no assurance that we will comply with all of the requirements imposed thereby. Further, we cannot assure that we will receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors. Investors and others may lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements in the event we identify significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal controls that we cannot remediate in a timely manner or if we are unable to receive a positive attestation from our independent auditors with respect to our internal controls. Risks Related To Doing Business In China Changes in China’s political or economic situation could harm us and our operating results. Economic reforms adopted by the Chinese government have had a positive effect on the economic development of the country. However, the Chinese government could change these economic reforms at any time. Such changes could negatively impact our operations and profitability. 22 The structure of the Chinese economy may inhibit our ability to expand our business. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most countries belonging to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, in several ways. For example, state-owned enterprises constitute a large portion of the Chinese economy. In addition, weak corporate governance practices and the lack of flexible currency exchange policies continue to persist. As a result of these differences, we may not develop in the same way or at the same rate as might be expected if the Chinese economy were similar to those of the OECD member countries. Our business is largely subject to the uncertain legal environment in China. The Chinese legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, it is a system in which precedents set in earlier legal cases are not generally used. Laws, regulations and legal requirements relating to foreign investments in China are still evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to foreign investors, such as the right of foreign enterprises to hold required business licenses and permits. It may be difficult for our stockholders to affect service of process against our subsidiaries or our officers and directors. Our operating subsidiaries were organized under the laws of China and substantially all of their assets are located outside the U.S. In addition, our executive officers and directors are residents of China and substantially all of their assets are located outside the U.S. As a result, it could be difficult for our stockholders to affect service of process in the U.S., or to enforce a judgment obtained in the U.S., against our officers and directors. Inflation in China may inhibit our ability to conduct business profitably in China. In recent years, the Chinese economy has experienced periods of rapid expansion. During the past ten years, the rate of inflation in China has been as high as 5.8% and as low as -1.4% . These factors have led to the adoption by the Chinese government, from time to time, of various corrective measures designed to limit inflation. High inflation in the future may cause the Chinese government to impose controls on credit or prices, or to take other actions which could inhibit economic activity in China, and thereby harm the market for our products. Likewise, negative inflation could have an unfavorable effect on our business profitability in China. Negative inflation may cause a period where consumers are reluctant to spend, as consumers anticipate lower prices for products in the future. In the event of negative inflation, the Chinese government may impose controls on credit or prices, or take other actions which could inhibit economic activity, harming the market for our products. Restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to receive and use our revenues effectively. The majority of our revenues are settled in Renminbi and U.S. dollars, and any future restrictions on currency exchanges may limit our ability to use revenue generated in Renminbi to fund any future business activities outside China or to make dividends or other payments in U.S. dollars. Although the Chinese government introduced regulations in 1996 to allow greater convertibility of the Renminbi for current account transactions, significant restrictions still remain. For instance, foreign enterprises may only buy, sell or remit foreign currencies after providing valid commercial documents at banks in China authorized to conduct foreign exchange business. In addition, conversion of Renminbi for capital account items, including direct investment and loans, is subject to governmental approval in China, and companies are required to open and maintain separate foreign exchange accounts for capital account items. The Chinese regulatory authorities may impose more stringent restrictions on the convertibility of the Renminbi in the future. 23 Failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to the establishment of offshore special purpose companies by PRC residents may have negative effects on our company. In October 2005, the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, issued the Notice on Relevant Issues in the Foreign Exchange Control over Financing and Return Investment Through Special Purpose Companies by Residents Inside China, generally referred to as Circular 75, which required PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or acquiring control over an offshore special purpose company, or SPV, for the purpose of engaging in an equity financing outside of China on the strength of domestic PRC assets originally held by those residents. Internal implementing guidelines issued by SAFE, which became public in June 2007 (known as Notice 106), further expanded the reach of Circular 75. ILH acquired certain interests in the Lorain Group Companies controlled by Si Chen, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Pursuant to Notice No. 75 and Notice 106, if a PRC resident has completed a round-trip investment through its established SPV but has not yet completed the required procedures of SAFE registration for offshore investment of the SPV, he must retroactively register the SPV with SAFE. In order to avoid such SAFE registration requirements, a Japanese individual, Hisashi Akazawa, was designated as a nominee holder of ILH when ILH was established. Mr. Akazawa granted an option to our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Chen, allowing Mr. Chen to buy 90% of Mr. Akazawa’s interest in the Company at a fixed price at a future time in accordance with the terms of an option agreement between the two parties. On December 22, 2008, Mr. Chen exercised this option. In addition, on that date, Mr. Chen acquired all of the remaining shares of our company held by Mr. Akazawa. As a result, Mr. Chen is the beneficiary of ILH and may be required to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE or its agency in connection with respect to the direct offshore investment activities related to the acquisition of the Lorain Group Companies. If the failure to identify and characterize Mr. Chen as a beneficial owner of ILH is determined by the PRC authorities to be a serious violation of the requirements of the PRC Company Law and the PRC Regulation of Registration of Companies, the Lorain Group Companies may be ordered by the company registration authority in the PRC to make corrections on its filed registration, to be fined an amount no less than RMB 5,000 and no more than RMB 50,000 or, in the worse scenario, to have its company registration certificate revoked or its business licenses canceled. Moreover, because of uncertainty over how Circular 75 will be interpreted and implemented, and how or whether SAFE will apply it to us, we cannot predict how it will affect our business operations or future strategies, such as our present and prospective PRC subsidiaries’ ability to conduct foreign exchange activities including the remittance of dividends and foreign currency-denominated borrowings. In addition, our PRC resident beneficial holders may be subject to compliance with Circular 75. Such holders may not be able to complete the necessary registration procedures required by Circular 75. Our financial condition is affected by the foreign exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi. Our financial condition is affected by the foreign exchange rates, primarily the rate between the U.S. dollar and the Renminbi. In the event that the Renminbi appreciates against the U.S. dollar, our costs will increase. 24 Risks Related To the Market For Our Stock Certain of our stockholders have the ability to delay or prevent adoption of important business decisions based on their ownership of a significant percentage of our outstanding voting securities. Mr. Chen is the record owner of approximately 64.8% of our outstanding voting securities. As a result, he possesses significant influence over our business. For instance, Mr. Chen may elect our board of directors, authorize significant corporate transactions or prevent a future change in control of our company. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board, which may have an unfavorable impact on our stock price and liquidity. Our common stock is quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. Liquidity in the OTC Bulletin Board is significantly more limited than U.S. national exchanges. The quotation of our shares on the OTC Bulletin Board may result in a less liquid market available for existing and potential stockholders to trade shares of our common stock, could depress the trading price of our common stock and could have a long-term adverse impact on our ability to raise capital in the future. We are subject to penny stock regulations and restrictions. The SEC has adopted regulations which generally define “penny stocks” to be an equity security that has a market price of less than $5.00 per share. As of April 1, 2009, the closing price for our common stock was $0.88 per share and our recent trading history has also shown prices below $5.00 per share. As a “penny stock,” our common stock is subject to Rule 15g-9 under the Exchange Act of 1934, or the “Penny Stock Rule.” This rule imposes additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell such securities to persons other than established customers and “accredited investors” (generally, individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual incomes exceeding $200,000, or $300,000 together with their spouses). For transactions covered by Rule 15g-9, a broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchaser and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction prior to sale. As a result, this rule may affect the ability of broker-dealers to sell our securities and may affect the ability of purchasers to sell any of our securities in the secondary market. For any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the rules require delivery, prior to any transaction in a penny stock, of a disclosure schedule prepared by the SEC relating to the penny stock market. Disclosure is also required to be made about sales commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements are required to be sent disclosing recent price information for the penny stock held in the account and information on the limited market in penny stock. Our common stock may not qualify for exemption from the Penny Stock Rule at all times. In any event, even if our common stock were exempt from the Penny Stock Rule, we would remain subject to Section 15(b) (6) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, which gives the SEC the authority to restrict any person from participating in a distribution of penny stock, if the SEC finds that such a restriction would be in the public interest. 25 Certain provisions of our Certificate of Incorporation may make it more difficult for a third party to effect a change- in-control. Our Certificate of Incorporation authorizes our board of directors to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The preferred stock may be issued in one or more series, the terms of which may be determined at the time of issuance by the board of directors without further action by the stockholders. These terms may contain voting rights, including the right to vote as a series on particular matters, preferences as to dividends and liquidation, conversion rights and redemption rights provisions. The issuance of any preferred stock could diminish the rights of holders of our common stock, and therefore could reduce the value of such common stock. In addition, specific rights granted to future holders of preferred stock could be used to restrict our ability to merge with, or sell assets to, a third party. The ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock could make it more difficult to acquire our company and could negatively affect the market price of our common stock. Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 