ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk factors set forth below, and this Report should be read in conjunction with such risk factors. The risks and uncertainties described in this Report are not the only ones we face. If any known or unknown risks or uncertainties actually occurs and have material adverse effects on our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed. In addition, current global economic climate conditions amplify many of these risks. Risks related to our business Our results of operations are subject to quarterly fluctuations due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and the trading price of our common stock. Our revenues and operating results may fluctuate from period to period and are likely to continue to fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Factors relating to our business that may contribute to these fluctuations include the following factors, as well as other factors described elsewhere in this prospectus: • spikes in our sales from major social or political events or developments resulting in a short term demand for products with related content; • seasonality of our revenues, including shifts in the timing of holiday selling seasons; • macroeconomic cycles and consumer spending; • demand for our user-designed products and services; • market acceptance and competitiveness of our products and services; • the gain or loss of significant strategic relationships; • our ability to develop, introduce and market new products and services on a timely basis; • the timing and terms of any acquisition, performance on earn out provisions and integration activities post acquisition; • fluctuations in sales and marketing costs, including website traffic acquisition costs; • the development of, or changes to, new technologies and platforms for Internet use, such as mobile, and evolving marketing methods such as social media, flash promotions and any changes in website traffic acquisition algorithms, policies or practices supporting such development; • new entrants that might occur to the market for customized goods in our distribution or marketing channels; • fluctuations in the cost of raw materials; • variations in the mix of products and services we sell; • new product and service announcements and introductions by us or our competitors; • difficulties encountered in the integration of newly-acquired businesses; and • the growth rate of the e-commerce industry. As a result of these factors, among others, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future revenues or operating performance. In particular, due to the seasonality of our business, our revenues in the first quarter of each year are generally substantially lower than our revenues in the fourth quarter of the preceding year, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. We may not sustain profitability or avoid net losses in the future. Although we have experienced consistent revenue growth in recent periods, these growth rates may not be sustainable and may slow or decrease in the 10 Table of Contents future. In addition, our ability to be profitable depends on our ability to control our costs and operating expenses, which have increased and we expect to further increase as we expand our business and incur additional expense associated with being a public company. We have incurred in the past, and expect to continue to incur in future periods, stock-based compensation expense, which will reduce our net income and may result in future losses. If we fail to increase revenues at the rate we anticipate or if our costs and operating expenses increase without a commensurate increase in our revenues, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be negatively affected. We perform an analysis of our goodwill balances to test for impairment on an annual basis or whenever events occur that may indicate impairment possibly exists. We evaluate our finite-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset is impaired or the estimated useful lives are no longer appropriate. Goodwill is deemed to be impaired if the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the estimated fair value. The impairment of a long-lived intangible asset other than goodwill is only deemed to have occurred if the sum of the forecasted undiscounted future cash flows related to the asset are less than the carrying value of the intangible asset we are testing for impairment. As of December 31, 2012, we had goodwill of $40.2 million and intangible assets of $20.0 million. Going forward, we will continue to review our goodwill and other intangible assets for possible impairment. Goodwill and intangible asset impairment analysis and measurement is a process that requires significant judgment. A sustained decline in our stock price and resulting market capitalization, or significant changes to our profitability resulting from the risk factors mentioned above or throughout this section, could result in impairment of a material amount of our $40.2 million goodwill balance or our $20.0 million intangible asset balance in the future. We cannot be certain that a future downturn in our business, changes in market conditions or a longer-term decline in the quoted market price of our stock will not result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets and the recognition of resulting expenses in future periods, which could adversely affect our results of operations for those periods. Due to the foregoing factors, our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In this event, the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. The seasonality of our business places increased strain on our operations and if we are unable to scale sufficiently to support our operations during periods of peak demand, our business could suffer. A significant portion of our net revenues and operating cash flows have historically been realized during the period from November through December each year, primarily due to increased retail activity during the holiday seasons. Any disruption in our ability to process, produce and fulfill customer orders in the fourth quarter could have a negative effect on our quarterly and annual operating results. As described in our Managements Discussion & Analysis herein, in anticipation of increased fourth quarter sales activity, we typically incur significant incremental expenses prior to and during peak selling seasons, particularly October through December, including the costs associated with hiring a substantial number of temporary employees to supplement our existing workforce. If we are unable to hire enough qualified employees to support our production and customer service operations or if there is a disruption in the labor we hire from our third-party providers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, if too many customers access our websites within a short period of time due to increased holiday demand or other periods of peak demand, we may experience system delays or interruptions that make our websites unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders, which may reduce the volume of goods we sell and the attractiveness of our products and services. This in turn could harm our business, operating results and reputation. Because we continue to expect a significant portion of our net revenues and operating cash flows to be realized in the fourth quarter, the fourth quarter factors more significantly into our outlook for the fiscal year. Any disruption in our business operations or other factors that could lead to a material shortfall compared to our expectations for the fourth quarter could result in a material shortfall compared to our expectations for the full year. This could have a disproportionate effect on our operating results and cause our stock price to decline. 11 Table of Contents Our business depends heavily on the market recognition and reputation of our services, and our subsidiary’s brands and services, and any harm to our brands or failure to maintain and enhance our brand recognition may materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that maintaining and enhancing the recognition and reputation of the level of services associated with our brands are critical to our success and ability to compete. Many factors, some of which are beyond our control, are important to maintaining and enhancing our services and may negatively impact our reputation if not properly managed, such as: • our ability to maintain a convenient and reliable user experience as consumer preferences evolve and as we expand into new product categories and new business lines; • our ability to increase brand awareness among existing and potential corporate partners and consumers through various means of marketing and promotional activities; • our ability to retain and expand our network of buyers and sellers; • the efficiency, reliability and service quality of our products and services; • our ability to protect personally identifiable information and credit card data; • our ability to effectively control the product and service quality of content as we continue to develop the services provided by our retail websites, which we refer to collectively as the marketplace; and • any negative media publicity about user-generated content, perceived weaknesses in data privacy or security practices or product quality problems of our service or other e-commerce websites. If we are unable to maintain our reputation, further enhance our brand recognition and increase positive awareness of our websites, our results of operations may suffer. We depend heavily on the continued success of our core business of selling user-designed products online, and any event that adversely affects our sales of user-designed products could harm our business and results of operations. A significant proportion of our revenue has been derived from the online sale of user-designed products through our marketplace. We expect that the sales of user-generated design products will continue to comprise a majority of revenue on our CafePress.com business. While we intend to continue to expand our product and service offerings, including the expansion of our Create & Buy services, expansion of licensed content for creation of products, and expansion of our corporate client e-commerce services, revenues from these services may not increase to a level that would reduce our dependence on revenues from our marketplace. In addition, users who design products may choose not to use our e-commerce platform to create and sell their designs, and choose other platforms, thereby reducing the number of designs available through our websites and affecting future growth of our marketplace revenue. Customers who purchase user-designed products on our websites may also purchase other fulfillment and partner products through our e-commerce services as well, which aid the growth of our services. If competitive services increase and/or we cannot successfully attract or retain users to design and sell products through our e-commerce platform or if we are unable to attract and retain our customers for user-designed and other products, our operating results may suffer. If we are unable to sustain the growth of our core business or otherwise grow the core business through the additional e-commerce services noted, our business and our operating results could be harmed. Our business model focuses on user-generated content and as a result, controversial political and social expressions appear on our site with which current or potential customers or business partners may not wish to be associated. We have built our business by providing consumers an outlet for self-expression through customized goods that they can share with their friends, their communities and the world. Our service is often used for the expression of political and cause-related issues that may generate strong feelings on many sides of a given issue, including in 12 Table of Contents other customers and potentially with the business partners who supply us with content or inventory and to those who choose to invest in our company. As a result, our websites frequently attract the attention of media outlets that may not understand the user-generated nature of our business model and attribute sentiments expressed by our users to our company. Additionally, because our service provides a platform for the expression of controversial ideas, our site could be the target of computer attacks or boycotts by well-organized special interest groups or filtered by foreign countries, which may adversely impact our growth and operations. For example, our websites are currently blocked in China. We believe we must maintain a balance between the encouragement of self-expression in our users that creates a content-rich experience, the needs and concerns of our business partners and our desire to protect our brands and company. If we fail to maintain this balance and lose customers or potential customers due to judgments made about the content on our websites, or conversely if we alienate corporate partners or businesses who wish to employ our customization services for their content or products, we risk damage to our brands and reputation and ultimately our business and results of operations. If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to draw visitors to our websites and promote our products and services, such as search engine marketing, email, affiliate networks, social media outlets and flash deal promotions through group-buying websites. We pay providers of online services, search engines and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content; marketing links, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. If these providers modify or terminate their relationship with us or increase the price they charge us or if our competitors offer them greater fees for traffic, our expenses could rise and traffic to our websites could decrease, resulting in harm to our operations. We also devote substantial resources to optimizing our websites to increase the likelihood of our products and services appearing in unpaid search engine results; however there can be no assurance that these efforts will be successful. If our products and services receive low placement or do not appear within the listings of search engine results in response to relevant search queries, this could result in fewer customers clicking through to our websites, requiring us to resort to other more costly resources to replace this traffic. We also promote our products and special offers through emails targeted to potential customers and our site members. However, if our customers deem such emails and other promotions to be intrusive, we could be forced to discontinue or significantly curtail our email marketing activities. In addition, we engage in flash promotions through group buying websites, such as through Groupon, Amazon Local and LivingSocial. Such promotions involve significantly discounted product offers to customers with the goal of driving traffic to our websites for repeat purchases. Due to the low profit margin associated with the deep discounts offered to purchasers of such offers and the widespread availability of similar group buy offers by other e-commerce competitors, the flash promotions we choose to implement may not accomplish our long term goal of customer acquisition in a cost-effective manner. Lastly, we have terminated a number of affiliate marketing partners in states that have imposed sales tax nexus for such marketing activities, and to the extent we determine it prudent to continue to do so, we may be unable to achieve our strategic goals in those channels. If we are unable to develop or maintain an effective and cost efficient means of reaching content providers and consumers, the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, then our ability to attract new and repeat customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. 13 Table of Contents Our strategy with respect to content acquisition may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. We obtain content for our websites and our products from multiple sources, including our user designers, for whom we may pay fees on any subsequent sales of products created with such content. We also increasingly rely on entertainment, publishing and corporate content provider sources to generate content for our products and services. Due to designer relationship issues, including compensation provided by us compared to that provided by our competitors, users may decrease or cease providing content to our websites in the future. We face challenges in managing the payment infrastructure and taxation implications of these transactions and expect to continue to do so in the future as competitive pressures or new regulatory or other issues arise. In connection with obtaining entertainment and other media content, we sometimes enter into multi-year, royalty-based licenses with content owners and production organizations for film and television and other media distributors. To date, we have been able to obtain those licenses without paying significant advance royalty payments but there is no guarantee that these licensors will renew their license agreements on the same or reasonable terms. Furthermore, we plan on increasing the level of committed content licensing in our efforts to grow our service and customer base both in the United States and globally. Finally, our competitors may be successful in obtaining exclusive licenses for content we wish to obtain for our site, making such content unavailable to us now or in the future. We may also, as we have in the past, enter into agreements with content providers that contain exclusivity provisions that may restrict our ability to sell certain products or in certain geographies or to partner with certain content providers. In order to compete effectively for these licenses, we could be forced to pay higher royalties or agree to significant advance payments. Our results of operations could be adversely affected as a result of these content licensing payment commitments in the event that sales or revenue growth do not meet our expectations. In addition, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the market segments in which we operate could be limited. In connection with the selection and popularity of specific content, we employ licensing and business development professionals and Internet traffic analysts who evaluate popular culture trends and potential properties to support the content on our site and drive traffic to it. To the extent they are unsuccessful in identifying or obtaining content sources that will be popular with consumers and that will generate sales of our products, our results could materially be harmed. To the extent the content we do choose to obtain proves unpopular or unsuccessful and we have agreed to contractual minimums, we may not achieve the planned return on royalty advances and may incur losses or impairment charges. If any of the above circumstances increase the cost of obtaining content, our margins may suffer. We must continue to ensure that our content is sufficiently diversified and desirbale to meet the needs of the markets we target. We believe that failure to secure content could result in lower sales and customer retention and materially reduce margins. If we are unable to market and sell products and services beyond our existing target markets and develop new products and services to attract new customers, our results of operations may suffer. We believe we will need to address additional markets and sales channels, attract new business partners, content providers and consumers to further grow our business. To access new markets and consumers, we expect that we will need to develop, market and sell new products and services. We also intend to continue the geographic expansion of our marketing efforts and customer service operations and the introduction of localized language websites in different countries. There is no guarantee we will be successful in this expansion. In addition, we intend to develop new strategic relationships to expand our marketing and sales channels, such as co-branded or strategic partner-branded websites, retail in-store offerings and deployable customization builders on third-party websites. Any failure to develop new products and services, expand our business beyond our existing target markets or address additional market opportunities could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 14 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth or execute our strategies effectively, our business and prospects may be materially and adversely affected. We have experienced a period of rapid growth and expansion that has placed, and continues to place, significant strain on our management and resources. To accommodate our growth, we anticipate that we will need to implement a variety of new and upgraded operational and financial systems, procedures and controls, including the improvement of our accounting, legal and other internal management and control systems. We also have expanded our production and logistics centers and distribution network to accommodate more customer orders and provide better coverage of our target markets. The recent expansion of our production and logistics centers and distribution network may put pressure on our managerial, financial, operational and other resources. If we are unable to effectively manage our expanded logistics operations and control increasing costs, our growth potential, results of operations and business could suffer. Additionally, we will need to continue to expand, recruit, train, manage and motivate our workforce and manage our relationships with existing and new business partners, suppliers, third-party service providers and content providers. Our strategies also include broadening our product and service offerings, which will require us to work with different groups of suppliers and address the needs of different kinds of consumers. We may incur significant costs in trying to expand our offerings into these new areas or fail to successfully execute the roll-out of these new offerings. All of these endeavors involve risks and require substantial management effort and significant additional expenditures. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage our growth or execute our strategies effectively, and any failure to do so may have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisition opportunities as part of our growth strategy and may not realize the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, which in turn could harm our business and operating results. As part of our growth strategy, we intend to evaluate and pursue selected acquisition and expansion opportunities. For example, we acquired Imagekind, Inc. in 2008, Canvas On Demand, LLC in 2010, L&S Retail Ventures, Inc. in October 2011 and Logo’d Software, Inc. in April 2012. In addition, in October 2012 we acquired all of the outstanding shares of capital stock of EZ Prints Inc. We may be unable to successfully integrate the businesses we acquire or to realize the anticipated benefits of our acquisitions. These acquisitions and any future acquisitions and the successful integration of assets and businesses into our own requires significant attention from our management and could result in a diversion of resources from our existing business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business operations. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in these efforts. Acquired assets or businesses may not achieve the anticipated benefits we expect due to a number of factors including: unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition, incurrence of acquisition-related costs, harm to our relationships with existing customers as a result of the acquisition, harm to our brands and reputation, the potential loss of key employees, use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business, and use of substantial portions of our available cash to consummate the acquisition. In addition, our ability to impose appropriate internal controls, including accurate forecasting, accounting integration of inventory, costs and reporting, to successfully manage these businesses will require significant investments of resources and management time. Finally, acquisitions could result in the use of substantial amounts of cash, earn-outs, potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the occurrence of significant goodwill impairment charges, amortization expenses for other intangible assets and exposure to potential unknown liabilities of the acquired business. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Canvas On Demand, we agreed to pay up to $9.0 million in earn-out payments to the former owners of Canvas On Demand. Additionally, the merger agreement with EZ Prints provides for up to $10.0 million in earn-out payments to the former stockholders of EZ Prints, with $2.7 million of such earn-out consideration payable in CafePress common stock or cash at the election of the EZ Print stockholders, which election was made prior to the closing of the merger with 6% of EZ Prints stockholders electing stock and 94% electing cash. If the performance targets are achieved in full, we will issue approximately 876 shares of CafePress common stock with an aggregate value of $8,100 (based on the value of $9.24 per share) to three former stockholders of EZ Prints. Any remaining earn-out consideration will be paid in cash. In addition to possible stockholders’ approval, we may also have to obtain approvals and licenses from the relevant government authorities for the acquisitions 15 Table of Contents and to comply with any applicable laws and regulations, which could result in increased costs and delay. A failure to manage the earn-out provisions of these and other newly-acquired businesses could harm our financial condition and cause results of operations to be diminished. Given the relatively short history of some of our service offerings, it may be difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. In the last three years, we have substantially expanded the service offerings on our websites to include other services such as our Create & Buy services. For example, in 2010, we acquired Canvas On Demand, LLC, or Canvas On Demand, which provides an online service for creating personalized canvases from photographs, in 2011 we acquired L&S Retail Ventures, Inc., an online provider of invitation and stationery products, and in April 2012 we acquired Logo’d Softwear, Inc., an e-commerce provider of personalized apparel and merchandise for groups and organizations. In October 2012, we acquired EZ Prints, Inc. which provides a deployable e-commerce platform for product customization. We cannot assure you that these services, or any other new services we may introduce or acquire, will be integrated or achieve market acceptance either at a level sufficient to justify our investment or at all. We have a limited history of operating these new services, which makes predicting our future results of operations more difficult than it otherwise would be. Therefore, our past results of operations should not be taken as indicative of our future performance. Our ability to achieve satisfactory financial results from these new services is unproven. If we fail to successfully identify and respond to constantly changing consumer preferences, adopt new technologies or adapt our websites and systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards, our business, prospects and financial results may be materially and adversely affected. The e-commerce and retail industries as well as the content-provider industry are subject to ever changing trends and consumer preferences. Consequently, we must anticipate emerging consumer trends for customized retail merchandise that will appeal to existing and potential consumers. If our consumers cannot find their desired products on or service through our websites, they may stop visiting our websites, visit less often or stop purchasing products on our websites or seek out our competitors’ services. If we do not anticipate, identify and respond effectively to consumer preferences and changes in consumer trends at an early stage, we may not be able to generate the desired level of sales. Likewise, we must anticipate and capitalize on trends in user-generated content and popular culture that will continue to drive consumer interest in our websites. Internet business models and the online content distribution generally are characterized by rapid technological evolution, changes in user requirements and preferences, frequent introductions of new products and services embodying new technologies and the emergence of new industry standards and practices. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality and features of our websites and systems. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, develop, acquire or license leading technologies useful in our business, enhance our existing services, develop new services and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our existing and prospective business partners and consumers, and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. The development of our websites and other proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may be unable to use new technologies or systems to effectively adapt our websites, proprietary technologies and transaction-processing systems to customer requirements or emerging industry standards. If we are unable to adapt in a cost-effective and timely manner in response to changing market conditions or customer requirements, whether for technical, legal, financial or other reasons, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Because our sales and revenues rely on consumer spending of discretionary income, continued recessionary conditions in the United States and world economies may materially and adversely affect our financial results. As the majority of our revenues are generated from sales through our consumer e-commerce websites, our sales are driven by discretionary consumer spending habits and preferences. Historically, consumer purchasing declines during economic downturns and periods of uncertainty regarding future economic prospects or when 16 Table of Contents disposable income or consumer lending is lower. While not always directly related to actual consumer behavior, macro-economic conditions like stock market volatility, high levels of unemployment, increased fuel or commodity prices and transportation costs, and conditions in the commercial consumer lending and housing markets among other factors fuel uncertainty over future macro-economic conditions and prospects of a prolonged recessionary spending climate. Further deterioration of economic conditions in the near term or long term, or the perception that such deterioration might occur, could reduce demand for our products. As a result our revenues could decline and our results could be materially and adversely affected by such trends. Our ability to anticipate, identify and respond quickly to consumer spending pressures and prevailing economic conditions will be challenged if such economic uncertainties continue for prolonged periods or during peak periods for our sales that historically have occurred in our fiscal fourth quarter. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly with respect to pricing and shipping, may harm our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services are sensitive to price, especially in times of recession, slow economic growth and consumer conservatism. Many external factors, including our production and personnel costs, the cost of raw materials, particularly the price of cotton, consumer sentiment and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our consumers’ price expectations, we could lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our revenues and net income. We frequently make changes to our pricing structure in order to remain competitive but that may result in lower profit margins. Most of our products are also offered by our competitors. If in the future, due to competitor activities or other marketing strategies, we significantly reduce our prices on our products without a corresponding increase in volume or decrease in cost of goods sold, it would negatively impact our revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability. We generate a portion of our revenues from the fees we collect from shipping our products. We frequently offer discounted or free shipping, with minimum purchase requirements during promotional periods to attract and retain customers. We also frequently offer coupons, promotional marketing giveaways and free or discounted products and services as a method to attract and retain customers, and such instances are generally unable to recoup shipping costs in such programs. In the future, if we continue to increase these discounted shipping offers to attract and retain customers and/or in response to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed. We face intense competition and if we do not compete successfully against existing and new competitors, we may lose market share and customers. The market for customized products and services is large, fragmented and intensely competitive and we expect competition to increase in the future. We face competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: • small traditional offline printing businesses; • e-commerce companies, including large online retailers such as Amazon.com, Inc. and eBay Inc. (who are also our distribution partners); • physical and catalog retailers of personalized merchandise such as American Stationery, Red Envelope and Things Remembered; • online providers of customized products such as CustomInk, LLC, Spreadshirt, Inc., Threadless.com or Zazzle Inc. and online providers of unique goods like Etsy, Inc. or Uncommon Goods; • online providers allowing users to customize goods in specific vertical markets, such as Vistaprint N.V. for small businesses and Shutterfly, Inc. or SmugMug, for photographic products, or Minted, Smilebox or Blurb for specific stationery and book products, and Art.com for wall art products. 17 Table of Contents We may also indirectly compete with Internet portals and shopping search engines that are involved in e-commerce or sell products or services either directly or in collaboration with other retailers. If more companies move into the customized products space, we will face more direct and intense competition. Furthermore, to the extent that other companies are able to replicate our processes or advances in print-on-demand technologies reduce any technological or other early mover leads we may have, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Some of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater financial, marketing and other resources than us, including significant brand recognition, sales volume and customer bases. In addition, other online retailers may be acquired by, receive investment from or enter into strategic relationships with well-established and well-financed companies or investors which would help enhance their competitive positions. Some of our competitors may be able to secure goods and raw materials from suppliers on more favorable terms, devote greater resources to marketing activities and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and system development than us. Increased competition may reduce our operating margins, market share and brand recognition, or force us to incur losses. We may not be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Competitive pressures may harm our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations. The proper functioning of our websites is essential to our business and any failure to maintain the satisfactory performance, security and integrity of our websites will materially and adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, our sophisticated marketing activities, our transaction- processing systems and our network infrastructure are critical to our success. Our revenues depend on the number of visitors who shop on our websites and the volume of orders we fulfill. Any system delays, interruptions or disruptions to our servers caused by telecommunications failures, computer viruses, physical break-ins, domain attacks, hacking or other attempts to harm our systems or servers that result in the unavailability or slowdown of our websites, loss of data or reduced order fulfillment performance would reduce the volume of products sold and the attractiveness of product offerings on our websites. We may also experience interruptions caused by reasons beyond our control. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2006, our servers experienced a denial of service attack, which disrupted access to our websites for several days during the holiday buying season. These unexpected interruptions may occur in the future, and future occurrences could damage our reputation and harm our revenues and results of operations. We use internally developed systems for all aspects of transaction processing, including order management, content review and purchasing and inventory management. We rely on third-party providers for debit card and credit card processing services, other payment services and shipping. We periodically upgrade and expand our systems, and in the future, we intend to further upgrade and expand our systems and to integrate newly developed or purchased software with our existing systems to support increased transaction volume. Any inability to add additional software and hardware or to develop and upgrade our existing technology, transaction-processing systems or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic on our websites or increased sales volume through our transaction-processing systems may cause unanticipated system disruptions, slower response time, degradation in levels of customer service and impaired quality and speed of order fulfillment, which would cause our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations to suffer. If our production and fulfillment operations are interrupted for any significant period of time or either facility where our computer and communications hardware is located fails, our business and results of operations would be substantially harmed. Our success depends on our ability to successfully receive, produce and fulfill orders and to promptly and securely deliver our products to our customers, which in turn depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. A significant portion of our production, inventory 18 Table of Contents management, packaging, labeling and shipping processes are performed in a single production and fulfillment center located in Louisville, Kentucky and such single location reliance presents risks. In addition, substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located at third-party hosting facilities in Las Vegas, Nevada and in Louisville, Kentucky. These facilities are susceptible to damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, ice storms, power loss, insufficient power availability, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, break-ins, earthquakes and similar events. Louisville, Kentucky, our principal production site, is particularly susceptible to flooding and extreme weather patterns. We are also consolidating production there as we integrate acquired businesses heightening risks of single site production. We maintain offices and operations in Northern California, an area where the risk of an earthquake is significant due to the proximity of major earthquake fault lines. Any catastrophic loss to any of these facilities would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenues and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility. Our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, particularly from interruption due to an earthquake, which is not covered under our current policy. Any interruptions in our production, fulfillment center or systems operations, particularly if for any significant period of time, could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Shipment of merchandise sold in our marketplaces could be delayed or disrupted by factors beyond our control and we could lose buyers and sellers as a result. We rely upon third-party carriers such as United Parcel Service, Inc., or UPS, in the United States for timely delivery of our merchandise shipments. As a result, we are subject to carrier disruptions and increased costs due to factors that are beyond our control, including labor difficulties, inclement weather, terrorist activity and increased fuel costs. While we do have relationships with other carriers, we do not have a long-term agreement with any other third-party carriers, and we cannot be sure that our relationship with UPS will continue on terms favorable to us, if at all. If our relationship with UPS is terminated or impaired or if UPS is unable to deliver merchandise for us, we would be required to use alternative carriers for the shipment of products to our buyers. We may be unable to engage alternative carriers on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, if at all. Potential adverse consequences include: • reduced visibility of order status and package tracking; • delays in merchandise receipt and delivery; • increased cost of shipment; and • reduced shipment quality, which may result in damaged merchandise. Any failure to receive merchandise at our distribution centers or deliver products to our buyers in a timely and accurate manner could lead to client dissatisfaction and cause us to lose sellers and buyers. Many of our suppliers are located in regions that are subject to weather instability, earthquakes and other natural disasters. The facilities of our third-party suppliers are subject to risk of catastrophic loss due to fire, flood or other natural or man-made disasters. For example, the majority of our suppliers are located in the United States and China in areas with above-average catastrophic weather instability and seismic activity and which are subject to typhoons, tsunamis and other storms. Additionally, since a significant portion of our revenues are attributed to cotton apparel and because we do not currently engage in any cotton or other commodity-related hedging activities, we are particularly susceptible to issues affecting the cotton growing and production industry. Any catastrophic loss to any of these facilities or disruptions in the production of cotton would likely disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenues and result in significant expenses to repair or replace the facility or to purchase critical inventory for creation of our products. 19 Table of Contents If we become subject to liability for content that we print and distribute through our service, our results of operations would be adversely affected. As a service provider that prints content provided by others, we face allegations related to, and potential liability for, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other other claims that we display and the goods created from user-generated uploads to our service. We also may face allegations related to, and potential liability for, content uploaded from our users in connection with claims of defamation, racism, hate speech, obscenity or pornography that may be embodied in user expression. As globally available websites, we also receive inquiries about content that may be illegal or insensitive to cultural norms not only in the United States but worldwide, and those sensitivities may differ widely. For example, content related to glorification of the current North Korean regime, while offensive to many, is not illegal in the United States. In South Korea, distribution of such speech is considered illegal and we therefore are subject to geographic-specific blocks on content on our websites. We are also exposed to risks associated with varying defamation laws in other jurisdictions in foreign countries, including heightened risk of secondary liability on defamation suits in the United Kingdom, despite our status as an e-commerce service provider and not a publisher. Further, we maintain relationships with law enforcement agencies to manage issues related to child pornography or other illegal uses of our service. As a direct distributor of content, we also face potential liability for negligence, copyright, patent or trademark infringement or other claims based on the nature and content of materials that we distribute. A number of our entertainment, publishing and corporate content providers impose limitations and conditions on our use of their licensed content, and our failure to implement and abide by these terms could result in our loss of these licenses, damages to our reputation and potential liability for breach of contract and copyright or trademark infringement. We also may face potential liability for content uploaded from our users in connection with our community-related content or political commentary. We maintain strict content usage policies that are frequently evaluated and updated and we maintain processes that review uploaded content for compliance with our terms. We also require users uploading content to attest that they have all necessary rights to upload content to our service and further require such users to indemnify us in the event that claims are made against us relating to such content. We maintain a content review process that includes evaluation and take-down of uploaded content on our site that fails to meet our policies. Nevertheless, we receive significant volumes of cease and desist demands on a regular basis with respect to claims of intellectual property infringement and violation of the rights of third parties, such as rights of privacy and publicity, and expect this may grow with the volume of content made available through our service. Notwithstanding our efforts to monitor and manage content, these measures may not be effective in removing violative content nor sufficient to shield us from potential liability, including situations where users do not have the financial ability to fully indemnify us against material liabilities. Failure to protect confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches or failure to comply with privacy and security laws and regulations could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant challenge to e-commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, most of our product orders and payments for products we offer are made through our websites. A majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly, orders are shipped to a customer’s address, and customers log on using their email address. In addition, some online payments for our products are settled through third-party online payment services. In such transactions, maintaining complete security for the transmission of confidential information on our websites, such as customers’ credit card numbers and expiration dates, personal information and billing addresses, is essential to maintain consumer confidence. We have limited influence over the security measures of third-party online payment service providers. In addition, we hold certain private information about our customers, such as their names, addresses, phone numbers and browsing and purchasing records. 20 Table of Contents We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could potentially access the user’s transaction data or personal information. We may not be able to prevent third parties, such as hackers or criminal organizations, from stealing information provided by our customers to us through our websites. In addition, our third-party merchants and delivery service providers may violate their confidentiality obligations and disclose information about our customers. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brands and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. Significant capital and other resources may be required to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. While we maintain insurance coverage at levels we deem reasonable to manage liabilities relating to potential cyber security risks, such coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses with respect to an actual breach. The methods used by hackers and others engaged in online criminal activity are increasingly sophisticated and constantly evolving. Even if we are successful in adapting to and preventing new security breaches, any perception by the public that e-commerce and other online transactions, or the privacy of user information, are becoming increasingly unsafe or vulnerable to attack could inhibit the growth of e-commerce and other online services generally, which in turn may reduce the number of orders we receive. Any failure, or perception of failure, to protect the confidential information of our customers or our network could damage our reputation and harm our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies or privacy-related obligations to customers, sellers or other third parties may result in Federal or state governmental enforcement actions, litigation, or negative public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. We accept payment by a variety of methods and a substantial majority of our net revenues is derived from credit card sales. This in turn exposes us to increased risks of dependence on third-party payment processing service providers as well as risks associated with higher transaction fees, compliance matters and fraud. We accept payments for our products and services on our websites by a variety of methods, including credit card, debit card and other payment services. As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional fees, additional regulations, compliance requirements, and fraud. To date, the substantial majority of our net revenues have been derived from credit card sales. As a result, we believe our business is vulnerable to any disruption in our customer payment processing capabilities. In most geographic regions, we rely on one or two third-party companies to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards and other payment services. If any of these companies became unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, then we would need to find and engage replacement providers. We may not be able to do so on terms that are acceptable to us or at all, or to process the payments ourselves, which could be costly and time consuming, either of which scenarios could disrupt our business. Additionally, as we typically experience increased activity from November through December each year due to increased retail activity during the holiday season, any disruption in our ability to process customer payments in the fourth quarter could have a significant and disproportionate negative impact on our business. For certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time and raise our operating costs and lower our profit margins or require that we charge our customers more for our products. We are also subject to payment card association and similar operating rules and requirements, which could change or be reinterpreted to make it difficult or impossible for us to comply. If we fail to comply with these rules and requirements, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees and lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers or facilitate other types of online payments, and our business and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 21 Table of Contents If we fail to manage our relationships with our suppliers, our business and prospects may suffer. To address customer demand for a wider range of customizable products, we intend to continue to expand our merchandise selection. This in turn increases our reliance on suppliers of such merchandise. Additionally, our business and reputation depend in large part on our ability to process and ship orders quickly, including during unanticipated or seasonal periods of increased demand. As a result, we believe the successful management of our supplier relationships is a key aspect of our business and our ability to compete. We source our blank products from domestic and foreign manufacturers and distributors. Maintaining good relationships with suppliers that compete with each other can be difficult. For example, suppliers of similar products may compete for more prominent placement on our websites. Our current suppliers may not continue to sell merchandise to us on terms acceptable to us, and we may be unable to establish new or extend current supplier relationships to ensure a steady supply of blank inventory in a timely and cost-efficient manner. If we are unable to develop and maintain good relationships with suppliers, it may inhibit our ability to offer products demanded by our customers or to offer them in sufficient quantities and at prices acceptable to them. In addition, if our suppliers cease to provide us with favorable pricing or payment terms or return policies, our working capital requirements may increase and our operations may be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we subcontract certain activities to third-party vendors. Any deterioration in our supplier or subcontractor relationships, or a failure to resolve disputes with, or complaints from, our suppliers in a timely manner, could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects and results of operations. We may suffer losses if we are unable to efficiently manage our inventory risks. We must anticipate the popularity of products and purchase blank inventory and secure sufficient supplies before customizing and selling them to our customers. Across all of our businesses, including the newly-acquired businesses, we must manage differing demand and inventory controls to accurately forecast and protect against risks. If we fail to adequately predict demand and experience an unexpected peak in production, our production times will suffer, which may result in damage to our reputation and business. For example, if we do not have an adequate supply of ink due to periods of unexpected peak demand, our ability to print and deliver products may be delayed. Conversely, any over purchase of ink or other supplies exposes us to risks of obsolete or excess inventory. Under some of our current supply agreements, we enjoy flexible policies for returning the unsold items to our suppliers. In order to secure more favorable business terms, we have entered into and plan to continue to enter into purchase arrangements with our suppliers with more restrictive return policies or with commitments to purchase larger quantities of inventory or supplies. For example, some of our contracts with suppliers contain restrictions on our ability to return products, such as caps on the amount of products that can be returned, and we may lose preferential pricing terms for such products if we exceed these caps, which could materially affect our profit margins. If we are unable to correctly predict demand for the products that we are committed to purchase, we will be responsible for covering the cost of the products that we are unable to sell, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. We largely depend on overseas suppliers for blank inventory and if we do not appropriately manage the risks related to product safety and quality, we may face regulatory actions or recalls and our operating results will be harmed. Like most retailers, manufacturers in China are the source of much of the blank inventory we utilize in the creation of customized products for sale on our websites, whether sourced from vendors directly by our supply managers or purchased through our business partners. Regulatory oversight of manufacturing in China is not subject to the same standards of product safety or supply chain scrutiny as may be expected in the United States. One or more of our vendors might not adhere to U.S. quality or legal standards, and we might not identify the deficiency before merchandise ships to our customers. The Transparency in Supply Chains Act of 2010 in California requires us to audit our vendors with respect to risks of human trafficking and slavery and mitigate these risks in our operations. Any failure to disclose issues or other non-compliance could subject us to action by the California Attorney General or other regulatory authorities. In addition, our vendors may have difficulty 22 Table of Contents adjusting to our changing demands and growing business. Our vendors’ failure to manufacture or import quality merchandise in a timely and effective manner could damage our reputation and brands, and could lead to an increase in customer litigation against us and an increase in our routine litigation costs. We rely on indemnities from suppliers and manufacturers with respect to the goods we customize and that protection may or may not be enough to shield us from liability for quality deficiencies. Further, any merchandise that we receive, even if it meets our quality standards, could become subject to a later recall, which could damage our reputation, our brands and our customers’ brands and harm our business. While we have never been subject to a product recall, there can be no guarantee that we will not face one in the future. Recently enacted legislation has given the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission increased regulatory and enforcement power, particularly with regard to children’s safety, among other areas. As a result, companies like ours may be subject to more product recalls and incur higher recall-related expenses. Any recalls or other safety issues could harm our business and operating results. Increased product returns and the failure to accurately predict product returns could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We generally offer our customers an unconditional 30-day return policy which allows our customers to return most products for a full refund if they are not satisfied for any reason. We make allowances for product re-dos and chargebacks in our financial statements based on historical return rates and current economic conditions. Actual merchandise returns are difficult to predict and may differ from our allowances. Any significant increase in merchandise returns or chargebacks above our allowances would substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our business would be adversely affected by the departure of existing members of our senior management team and other key personnel. Our success depends, in large part, on the continued contributions of our senior management team, in particular, the services of Bob Marino, our Chief Executive Officer, and Monica N. Johnson, our Chief Financial Officer, as well as other key personnel. In addition, we have not entered into long-term employment agreements or non-compete agreements with some members of our senior management team. Our employees can terminate their employment with us at any time. The loss of any member of our senior management team or key personnel could harm our ability to implement our business strategy and respond to the rapidly changing market conditions in which we operate. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel with relevant industry and operational expertise, we may be unable to effectively execute our business plan or maintain or, in the future, expand our operations, which in turn would harm our business. Our operations depend heavily on skilled personnel trained in our proprietary printing and production techniques and personnel knowledgeable about the online retail industry. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel with relevant experience and skill sets. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the retail, e-commerce and printing industries, is vital to our success. In our newly-acquired businesses we must strive to retain employees of these businesses to drive future growth and revenue in the acquired properties. There is substantial competition for qualified personnel and we cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain our personnel. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel for each of our e-commerce sites operations, our business may suffer. 23 Table of Contents Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of our proprietary technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies and prevent us from maintaining a leading market position. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights and other contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2012, we had six issued patents and seven patents pending in the United States, which relate to our unique e-commerce services, our proprietary printing and decorating services and an online platform for designing and generating framed products. We may have, on occasion, disclosed inventions prior to making the relevant filings, which may make our patent applications and any resulting issued patents vulnerable to validity challenges. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We also rely upon certain unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise and modeling methods and designs, licensed third-party technologies, continuing technological innovation and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. While we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and third parties to protect our intellectual property, certain confidentiality and invention assignment agreements may be limited in duration or deemed by a court to be unenforceable. Moreover, these confidentiality and invention assignment agreements could be breached, potentially in a way that we could not immediately detect, and thus may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods of system design, other methods and materials could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries. In some countries where we operate we have not applied for patent, trademark or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could harm our business, financial condition or operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive and potentially subjects our intellectual property rights to validity and enforceability challenges. Also, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot assure you that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. We may face infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from conducting our business. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to business process patents involve complex scientific, legal and factual questions and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties, including allegations of patent infringement asserted by patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenues and against whom our own patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. In January 2013, Express Card Systems LLC filed suit against us and in a separate suit, against partner Target Corporation, for which we have an indemnification obligation for the licensed platform. While we believe the suits to be meritless, the defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings can be 24 Table of Contents both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, pay ongoing royalties, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our website services until resolution of such litigation. We are subject to, or will soon be subject to, additional regulatory compliance requirements, including Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as a result of becoming a public company and our management has limited experience managing a public company. We have limited experience as a public company and will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, particularly after we cease to be an “emerging growth company” that we did not incur as a private company. The individuals who constitute our management team have limited experience managing a publicly traded company, and limited experience complying with the increasingly complex and changing laws pertaining to public companies. Our management team and other personnel will need to devote a substantial amount of time to compliance initiatives and we may not successfully or efficiently manage our transition into a public company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, impose a number of requirements on public companies, including requiring changes in corporate governance practices. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting annually and disclosure controls and procedures quarterly. While the JOBS Act will provide us with more time to achieve full compliance, the regulations surrounding Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act will require us to incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management time on compliance-related issues. Moreover, these rules and regulations will increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and will make some corporate activities more time-consuming and costly than private company compliance. These rules and regulations could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers and make securing directors’ and officers’ liability insurance more expensive. If we are unable to successfully improve internal controls, our ability to report our financial results on a timely and accurate basis may be adversely affected. We have implemented and continue to adopt and implement measures to improve our internal controls. We are likewise in the process of developing procedures for our newly-acquired companies as well. If the procedures we have adopted and implemented are insufficient, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations, our financial statements may contain material misstatements and our operating results may be harmed. In the past we have experienced deficiencies in internal controls, and while the amounts of revenue involved were not material and we believe we have remediated the deficiency, there can be no assurance that similar or other significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our financial reporting will not occur in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses, cause us to fail to meet our future reporting obligations or cause our financial statements to contain material misstatements. Internal control deficiencies could also result in a restatement of our financial statements in the future or cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, leading to a decline in our stock price. If we fail to detect weaknesses or errors in our internal controls, the trading price of our common stock may be adversely impacted as well as our ability to attract new and continued investors. Since we are an “emerging growth company,” as defined by the JOBS Act of 2012 and for as long as we maintain such status, we are not required at this time to include an attestation report of our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. The absence of such report could impair our 25 Table of Contents ability to detect weaknesses or errors in our financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective and appropriate internal controls over financial reporting processes or modify them as necessary to maintain such controls, investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports. If the reliability of our internal control over financial reporting is in question, the price of our common stock may decline or be otherwise adversely affected. Such doubts about the efficacy of internal controls could also impair our ability to attract new investors and may adversely affect our ability to continue our growth and meet our forecasts. Risks related to our industry Uncertainties regarding the growth and sustained profitability of business-to-consumer e-commerce could adversely affect our revenues and business prospects and the trading price of our common stock. The long term viability and prospects of e-commerce remain relatively uncertain. Our future operating results will depend on numerous factors, including: • the growth of personal computer, Internet and broadband usage and penetration, and the rate of any such growth; • the trust and confidence level of consumers in online shopping, as well as changes in consumer demographics and consumers’ tastes and preferences; • concerns about buying customized and personalized products without face-to-face interaction with sales personnel; • our ability to provide high-quality customization capabilities; • the selection, price and popularity of products that we and our competitors offer on websites; • whether alternative retail channels or business models that better address the needs of consumers emerge; • the impact of new technology platforms for Internet access, like mobile, and methods of marketing, such as social media; • the development of fulfillment, payment and other ancillary services associated with online purchases; and • general economic conditions, particularly economic conditions affecting discretionary consumer spending. A decline in the popularity of shopping on the Internet in general, interest in customized goods as a retail trend or any failure by us to adapt our websites and improve the online shopping experience of our customers in response to consumer requirements and tastes, will harm our revenues and business prospects. As a provider of customized consumer products, our growth and profitability depends, among other things, on the level of consumer confidence and spending in the United States and globally. Our results of operations are sensitive to changes in overall economic and political conditions that impact consumer spending both in the United States and globally. The retail industry, in particular, is very sensitive to broad economic changes, and retail purchases tend to decline during recessionary periods. A substantial portion of our revenues are derived from retail sales in the United States, where sales are dependent on the availability of discretionary income. Additionally, as a provider of customized consumer products that represent discretionary purchases by consumers, we believe we are particularly vulnerable to fluctuations and trends in consumer confidence and spending as consumers are less likely to purchase customized goods during periods of economic uncertainty. Many factors outside of our control, including interest rates, volatility of the world’s stock markets, inflation and deflation, tax rates and other government policies and unemployment rates can adversely affect consumer confidence and spending. The domestic and international political environments, including military conflicts and political turmoil or social instability, may also adversely affect consumer confidence and reduce spending, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our growth and profitability. 26 Table of Contents Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that may materially and adversely affect our business and operating results. We plan to continue to target customers in countries outside the United States. We maintain websites localized to the markets in the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Germany, Spain and France. Additionally, we utilize contract manufacturing operations in the Czech Republic. In connection with our international presence we are subject to a variety of risks including: • the need to develop new production, supplier and customer relationships; • difficulties in enforcing contracts, collecting accounts receivables and longer payment cycles; • regulatory, political or contractual limitations on our ability to operate and sell in certain foreign markets, including trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes and other restrictions and expenses; • varying data privacy and security laws and regulations in other countries; • challenges of international delivery and customs requirements; • varying product safety requirements and content restrictions in other countries; • difficulties of language translations, increased travel, infrastructure and legal compliance and enforcement costs associated with international locations; • currency translation and transaction risk, which may negatively affect our revenues, cost of net revenues and gross margins, and could result in exchange losses; • difficulty with managing widespread international operations and fulfillment partnerships; • reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; • the need to defend against intellectual property infringement claims against us in unfamiliar foreign legal regimes and to comply with unfamiliar foreign regulatory schemes and laws; • lower per capita Internet usage and lack of appropriate infrastructure to support widespread Internet usage as well as broadband connections on which our content-rich services depend; • heightened exposure to political instability, war and terrorism; and • changes in the general economic and political conditions. As we continue to expand our business globally, our success will depend on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these and other risks associated with our international presence. Our failure to manage any of these risks successfully could harm our international reputation and reduce our international sales, adversely affecting our business, operating results and financial condition. If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to e-commerce, decreases or stays flat, our business and results of operations will be harmed. Our future revenues are substantially dependent upon the continued growth in the use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our target customers. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce for several reasons including the following: • actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; • attacks on or attempts to hijack our domain or website traffic or similar damage to our domains or servers; • possible disruptions, computer viruses, spyware, phishing, attacks or other damage to the Internet servers, service providers, network carriers and Internet companies or to users’ computers; and 27 Table of Contents • excessive governmental regulation and new taxation measures. Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Our business, which relies on contextually rich websites that require the transmission of substantial secure data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high speed Internet connectivity technologies. If we do not properly account for our unredeemed gift certificates, gift cards, merchandise credits and flash deal promotions through group-buying websites, our operating results will be harmed. We account for unredeemed gift cards, gift certificates, and flash deal promotions through group-buying websites and merchandise credits based on historical redemption data. In the event that our historical redemption patterns change in the future, our estimates for redemption would change, which would affect our financial position or operating results. Further, in the event that a state or states were to require that the unredeemed amounts be escheated to such state or states, our business and operating results would be harmed. As mentioned above, we also participate in flash deal promotions through group-buying websites such as Groupon. Due to the emerging development of this business model, the terms and conditions of these programs continue to evolve and the taxation, legal and other potential regulatory implications of these sales activities have yet to be fully settled. Based on the terms of the agreements that we have entered into to date, and based on our judgmental evaluation of the criteria in the authoritative accounting guidance, we have concluded that we are the primary obligor in these transactions and have recorded revenues on a gross basis and the fees retained by the group-buying website as sales and marketing expense. We will continue to evaluate changes in the terms and conditions of these programs, or changes in accounting guidance in determining our accounting for these programs. There can be no guarantee that the legal, accounting and customer service approaches we have taken to these programs will be appropriate in the future. Changes in the terms and conditions of these programs or our evaluation of our performance obligations and associated tax, escheatment and other obligations associated with these programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial position or otherwise harm our business. Taxation risks could subject us to liability for past sales and cause our future sales to decrease. United States Supreme Court precedents currently restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, in recent years, a number of states have attempted or are considering adoption of initiatives that limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales or with respect to affiliate marketing programs we employ to generate sales on our websites. If these initiatives are successful, we could be required to collect sales taxes in additional states or change our business practices and we may be exposed to retroactive liability on sales. In addition, Congress is considering a bill introduced in July 2011 called the Main Street Fairness Act, which would authorize states to use the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement to require remote retailers to collect and remit sales taxes in those states. Other bills were introduced thereafter, including The Marketplace Equity Act and The Marketplace Fairness Act, which covered similar subject matters. The bill ultimately did not pass but further attempts are expected in 2013 after the election year cycle of 2012. The imposition of a Federal tax scheme or the imposition by individual state and local governments of taxes upon Internet commerce or affiliate programs could create administrative burdens for us in the future that may pose operational challenges. We currently collect sales tax in states in which we believe we have established sales tax nexus based on our operations and physical presence and in compliance with existing law. We have elected to discontinue affiliate marketing programs residing in states that have enacted affiliate sales tax nexus statutes. Under some of our agreements, another company is the seller of record, but we are nevertheless obligated to collect sales tax on transactions. We may enter into additional agreements requiring similar tax collection obligations. We expect the complexity of the application of various taxation schemes to continue to pose challenges to our business as it grows. 28 Table of Contents We also pay royalties to our designers where they upload content and license to us for the creation of online storefronts operated by us. We believe it is our content owners’ obligation to pay taxes on their royalty income. In the U.S., we issue appropriate tax forms disclaiming the withholding on taxes on such royalty income to them. While we have had no taxing authority inquiries on such on the application position withholding taxes there is no guarantee that such procedures will be appropriate to disclaim taxable nexus in every state and foreign country in the future and we plan to periodically review such positions on a regular basis for recent developments. We comply with tax liability obligations, including value added tax and provincial sales tax, in foreign jurisdictions as applicable but additional foreign countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us and as our international sales grow and we expand localized language sites our exposure to liability likewise grows. A successful assertion of taxable nexus with respect to any of our sales, affiliate marketing or user royalty payment activity by one or more states or foreign countries that we should collect sales or other taxes on the sale of merchandise could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or competitors, negatively impact our financial position or otherwise harm our business. Risks related to ownership of our common stock Our stock price has been volatile, may continue to be volatile and may decline regardless of financial performance. The market price for our common stock has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including: • actual or anticipated fluctuations, including seasonal variations, in our financial condition and operating results; • changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other e-commerce companies or companies perceived by investors to be comparable to us; • loss of a significant amount of existing business; • actual or anticipated changes in our growth rate relative to our competitors; • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our competitors’ operating results or changes in their growth rates; • issuance of new or updated research or reports by securities analysts, including the publication of unfavorable reports or change in recommendation or downgrading of our common stock; • lack of coverage of us by industry or securities analysts; • our announcement of actual results for a fiscal period that are higher or lower than projected results or our announcement of revenues or earnings guidance that is higher or lower than expected; • regulatory developments in our target markets affecting us, our customers or our competitors; • fluctuations in the supply and prices of materials used in our products, such as cotton; • share price and volume fluctuations attributable to inconsistent trading volume levels of our shares; • terrorist attacks or natural disasters or other such events impacting countries where we or our customers have operations; and • general economic and market conditions. For example, from March 29, 2012 through December 31, 2012, our stock price has fluctuated from $22.69 to a lowest close price of $4.91 on November 9, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, our stock price closed at $5.77. 29 Table of Contents Furthermore, the stock markets have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many companies. These fluctuations often have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry fluctuations, as well as general economic, political and market conditions such as recessions, interest rate changes or international currency fluctuations, may cause the market price of shares of our common stock to decline. As an e-commerce company, we believe our stock price may be particularly susceptible to volatility as the stock prices of technology and e-commerce companies have often been subject to wide fluctuations. In the past, companies that have experienced volatility in the market price of their stock have been subject to securities class action litigation. We may be the target of this type of litigation in the future. Securities litigation against us could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention from other business concerns, which could seriously harm our business. We are an “emerging growth company,” and we intend to comply with reduced public company reporting requirements applicable to emerging growth companies, which could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act enacted in April 2012, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements afforded to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, exemptions from compliance with the auditor attestation requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes Oxley Act, exemptions from certain of the disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years following the date of our initial public offering, although, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million or our revenues exceed $1 billion as of any June 30 before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive because we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. We will not be required to comply with certain provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act for as long as we remain an “emerging growth company.” As long as we remain an “emerging growth company” we will not be required to comply with certain of the SEC rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and require us to provide an auditor attestation on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Though we will be required to disclose changes made in our internal control procedures on a quarterly basis, we will not be required to make our first annual assessment of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 until the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC. Our independent registered public accounting firm is not required to formally attest to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting until the later of the year following our first annual report required to be filed with the SEC, or the date we are no longer an “emerging growth company.” At such time, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue a report that is adverse in the event it is not satisfied with the level at which our controls are documented, designed or operating. 30 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and Delaware law, contain provisions that could discourage a takeover. In addition to the effect that the concentration of ownership by our officers, directors and significant stockholders may have as noted above, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and our amended and restated bylaws which became effective upon completion of our initial public offering contain provisions that may enable our management to resist a change of control. These provisions may discourage, delay or prevent a change in our ownership or a change in our management. In addition, these provisions could limit the price that investors would be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Such provisions as set forth in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws that became effective upon the completion of our initial public offering include: • our board of directors is authorized, without prior stockholder approval, to create and issue preferred stock, commonly referred to as “blank check” preferred stock, with rights senior to those of common stock; • advance notice is required of stockholders to nominate candidates to serve on our board of directors or to propose matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings; • stockholder action by written consent is prohibited; • special meetings of the stockholders will be permitted to be called only by a majority of our board of directors, the chairman of our board of directors or our chief executive officer; • stockholders will not be permitted to cumulate their votes for the election of directors; • newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the authorized number of directors or vacancies on our board of directors will be filled only by majority vote of the remaining directors, even though less than a quorum is then in office, or by a sole remaining director; • our board of directors is expressly authorized to modify, alter or repeal our amended and restated bylaws; and • stockholders will be permitted to amend our amended and restated bylaws only upon receiving at least two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of all outstanding shares then entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, voting together as a single class. We are also subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which may prohibit certain business combinations with stockholders owning 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock. These and other provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, our amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law could make it more difficult for stockholders or potential acquirers to obtain control of our board of directors or initiate actions that are opposed by our then-current board of directors, including delaying or impeding a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Any delay or prevention of a change of control transaction or changes in our board of directors could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 31 Table of Contents 