D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our business We currently conduct no significant business activities and may not consummate transactions with operating companies. Our business plan is to enter into one or more transactions with businesses without limitation as to their industry, revenues or losses. It is not possible at this time to predict when we will enter into any such transaction or what will be the industry, operating history, revenues, if any, future prospects or other characteristics of any such business. Our activities are limited to attempting to locate such a candidate and to the funding and supporting early stage technology projects. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating transactions with operating companies. If we do enter into a transaction with an operating company, it is likely to have no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. In the event that we complete a transaction with one or more operating companies, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the management of such target company or companies and numerous other factors. Since 2008, the only significant transaction that we consummated was with BioCancell, our stake in which has been substantially liquidated in 2012. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate additional transactions on terms favorable to us, or at all. We source and fund early stage technology projects, which involves a high risk of loss. We provide funding for early-stage biotechnology projects. Since we invest at an early stage, the risk of loss is high. In 2011 and 2012, we recorded aggregate research and development expenses of $92,000 and $40,000, respectively, related to such projects (not including funding provided by the Israeli government). Our shareholders may be subject to dilution of the value of our shares if we conduct a business combination or other type of acquisition. A business combination or the acquisition of stakes in operating companies, which are among the business alternatives considered by us, may involve the issuance of a significant number of additional shares. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such transaction, the per share value of our ordinary shares may significantly increase or decrease. 3 Conditions and changes in the national and global economic and political environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. With major financial institutions de-levering their balance sheets, credit was constricted in recent years, and may likely remain so for an extended period. In addition, recent concerns regarding the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries has disrupted financial markets throughout the world, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States, and other parts of the world. If economic growth further declines, this may have a negative impact on our financial condition and share price, which may impact our ability to obtain financing and other sources of funding in the future on terms favorable to us, if at all. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations. The growth of our business depends on our obtaining additional financing, which may be unavailable to us. In order to acquire stakes in and to fund additional operating companies, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless we qualify for an exemption. Even after we acquired a minority stake in BioCancell and although we may acquire stakes in additional operating companies, we may be deemed an investment company if we do not have sufficient control over such companies or qualify for another exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act of 1940. A violation of that law could make it more difficult for us to register securities and raise funding and subject us to other material adverse consequences. We might lose money from the investment of our cash. We invest the majority of our cash on hand in financial instruments. If the obligor of any of the instruments we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. This would harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2012, see Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk--Interest Rate Risk Management.” We are subject to costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer in Israel subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we are required to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, various SEC regulations and the Israeli Companies Law. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation of the effectiveness of these controls by our management. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 4 Risks relating to our presence in Israel Our incorporation in Israel may limit our ability to find a target for a business combination or other transactions outside Israel. We are incorporated and headquartered in Israel. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as tension between Israel, Iran, Syria and Lebanon, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. In past years there was a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians, including rocket attacks on certain areas of the country. Recent political events in various countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa, including Egypt and Syria, have shaken the stability of those countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. We cannot predict the effect on us of the increase in the degree of terror attacks against Israel, political instability in the region or military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of an increase in hostilities or due to disagreement with Israel’s policies. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers named herein may be difficult to effect within the United States because some of these people reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be enforceable within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if any Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. 5 Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures Under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that the following key conditions are met: · subject to limited exceptions, the judgment is final and non-appealable; · the judgment was given by a court competent under the laws of the state of the court and is otherwise enforceable in such state; · the judgment was rendered by a court competent under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; · the laws of the state in which the judgment was given provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter was not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit was instituted in the U.S. court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in new Israeli shekels, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in new Israeli shekels at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in new Israeli shekels ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, which may depress our share price. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. 6 The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. Risks relating to the market for our ordinary shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face certain potentially adverse U.S federal income tax consequences. As a consequence of our ownership of relatively substantial cash and investment assets, it is likely that we would be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having been a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for each year since 2003, although the determination of PFIC status is made separately for each year and our PFIC status could change. Classification as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares, which could, in turn, cause a reduction in the value of our ordinary shares. Classification as a PFIC also triggers the application of certain United States income tax reporting requirements. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. The trading market for our ordinary shares has low liquidity, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares currently are traded on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. Currently, we do not meet the initial listing conditions of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The market for shares quoted on the Pink Sheets is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. 7 The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market value of our ordinary shares has fluctuated over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: • low trading volume of our ordinary shares; • the market price of BioCancell on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, which influences the value of warrants of BioCancell that we hold; • political, economic or other developments affecting Israel; • global economic and other external factors; and • quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Two shareholders may be able to control us. Eric Paneth, one of our directors, beneficially owns approximately 13.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Izhak Tamir, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns approximately 11.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they effectively may have the power to control the outcome of all matters submitted for the vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. Their combined equity interest in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult and may result in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Tikcro unless approved by one or both of them. Our shareholder bonus rights plan may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. In September 2005, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares ten business days after a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2015. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Tikcro. On November 20, 2012, Mr. Steven N. Bronson filed a Statement on Schedule 13D reflecting beneficial ownership of 1,500,094 of our ordinary shares, or 16.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares, thereby crossing the 15% ownership threshold. We have deferred the "Distribution Date" under the bonus rights plan to the close of business on the 30th business day following the termination of a standstill and confidentiality agreement that we entered into with Mr. Bronson, which shall remain in effect until terminated by either party. 8 