Risk Factors — Risks Relating to Our Business — Current or future asymmetrical and other regulatory measures adopted by the PRC regulatory authorities could materially harm our competitive position, which would in turn significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected.” Regulation The mobile industry in Mainland China is highly regulated. Regulations issued or implemented by the State Council, the MIIT and other relevant government authorities, including the NDRC and the Ministry of Commerce, encompass all key aspects of mobile network operations, including entry into the telecommunications industry, scope of permissible business, interconnection and transmission line arrangements, technology and equipment standards, tariff standards, capital investment priorities, foreign investment policies and spectrum and numbering resources allocation. The MIIT, under the supervision of the State Council, is responsible for formulating policies and regulations for the telecommunications industry, granting telecommunications licenses, allocating frequency spectrum and numbers, formulating interconnection and settlement arrangements between telecommunications operators, and enforcing industry regulations. In order to provide a uniform regulatory framework to encourage the orderly development of the telecommunications industry, the MIIT, under the direction of the State Council, has been preparing a draft telecommunications law. We expect that, if and when the telecommunications law is adopted by the National People’s Congress, it will become the basic telecommunications statute and the legal source of telecommunications regulations in Mainland China. In addition, the State Council promulgated a set of telecommunications regulations on September 25, 2000. These regulations apply in the interim period prior to the adoption of the telecommunications law. Although we expect that the telecommunications law will have a positive effect on the overall development of the telecommunications industry in Mainland China, we cannot predict what will be the ultimate nature and scope of the telecommunications law. Entry into the Industry. Under the current regulations, operators of mobile networks, providers of other basic telecommunications services such as local and long distance fixed-line telephone services, and data service providers whose telecommunications services cover two or more provinces, directly-administered municipalities or autonomous regions in Mainland China must apply for specific permits from the MIIT in order to provide such services. Granting of permits for providing basic telecommunications services will be through a tendering process. In addition to us, China Telecom and China Unicom are currently also authorized to provide mobile services in all provinces, directly-administered municipalities and autonomous regions in China. Pursuant to China’s commitments under the WTO and the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign-Funded Telecommunications Enterprises, which became effective on January 1, 2002, foreign investors may invest in joint ventures that provide telecommunications services in Mainland China. However, these investments will presumably bear no direct relation to the issuance of licenses to providers of telecommunications services in Mainland China, as the issuance of new licenses by the relevant authority is governed by a separate set of rules and regulations. Pursuant to the Provisions on the Administration of Foreign-Funded Telecommunications Enterprises, as amended in September 2008, foreign ownership in a telecommunications enterprise may be gradually increased to 49% if such enterprise provides basic telecommunications services and 50% if such enterprise provides value-added telecommunications services (including radio paging services). -29- Table of Contents The MIIT has promulgated the Administrative Measures for the Licensing of Telecommunication Business Operations, which became effective on April 10, 2009. Those regulations apply to the application for, and examination and approval of, telecommunications business licenses in the PRC. The PRC government recently implemented a number of measures that permit certain operators approved by the MIIT to lease and repackage mobile services for sale to end customers. On May 17, 2013, the MIIT announced that it would accept applications from non-State-owned companies to, on a trial basis, lease mobile services from China Unicom, China Telecom or us and provide mobile services to end customers after repackaging these services. The trial period will end on December 31, 2015, subject to further adjustment by MIIT. From December 2013 through December 2014, the applications of 42 applicants to lease and repackage mobile services and provide mobile services to end customers were approved. Spectrum Usage. In coordination with the relevant provincial authorities, the MIIT regulates the allocation of radio frequency. The frequency assigned to an entity is not allowed to be leased or, without approval of the MIIT, transferred by the entity to any other third party. In accordance with a joint circular from the NDRC and the MOF, CMCC has entered into an agreement with us that specifies the amount of fees to be paid to the MIIT for spectrum usage by each mobile network operator based on the bandwidth of the frequency used. Spectrum usage fees for GSM networks are currently charged at the annual rate of RMB17 million per MHz for the 900 MHz frequency band, RMB14 million per MHz for the 1800 MHz frequency band, and RMB1.4 million per MHz per province for non-nationwide use. Spectrum usage fees are charged on the basis that uplink and downlink frequencies are separately charged. Spectrum usage fees for TD-SCDMA networks are currently charged at the annual rate of RMB15 million per MHz for the 960 MHz to 2300 MHz frequency bands and RMB12 million per MHz for the 2300 MHz to 2690 MHz frequency bands, while rates for indoor-only frequency bands are set at 30% of the corresponding full rates. As of March 31, 2015, no detailed standards have been promulgated for spectrum usage fees for TD-LTE networks. The relevant regulatory authorities in China may review these fee arrangements in the future. Numbering Resources. The MIIT is responsible for the administration of the telecommunications numbering resources within Mainland China, including the telecommunications network numbers and customer numbers. The use of numbering resources by any telecommunications operator is subject to the approval by the MIIT. In addition, a user of numbering resources is required to pay a usage fee to the PRC government by the 10th day of the first month of each quarter. Moreover, under the applicable regulations, mobile companies are required to pay an annual usage fee of RMB12 million for each network number. Tariff Setting. Our tariffs are subject to regulation by various government authorities, including the MIIT, the NDRC and the relevant price regulatory authorities in Mainland China. The MIIT has continued encouraging mobile operators in Mainland China to implement the caller-party-pays regime, and mobile operators, including us, have been implementing the caller-party-pays regime. In particular, all of the new calling plan packages that we offer in Mainland China are generally based on tariffs equivalent to the caller-party-pays regime. In March 2008, the MII reduced the maximum domestic roaming usage charges that a mobile services provider may charge on roaming services. In December 2009, the PRC regulators promulgated policies to eliminate domestic roaming usage charges on outgoing international long distance calls when domestic roaming services are used, as well as eliminate local usage charges on outgoing domestic and international long distance calls when roaming services are not used. In May 2014, the PRC regulators further promulgated policies to permit mobile services providers to set the tariffs of all telecommunications services. Our international roaming usage charges are set in accordance with agreements with the relevant foreign mobile operators. Under the current telecommunications regulations, tariffs for those telecommunications businesses that are considered fully competitive may be set by the service providers as market based tariffs. Interconnection Arrangements and Lease Line Arrangements. Under the current telecommunications regulations, parties seeking interconnection must enter into an interconnection agreement. In addition, major telecommunications services providers that have control over essential telecommunications infrastructure and possess significant market share must allow interconnection to their networks by other operators. These telecommunications services providers must also establish interconnection rules and procedures based on the principles of non-discrimination and transparency and submit such rules and procedures to the MIIT for approval. The termination of any interconnection arrangements will require prior approval by the MIIT. -30- Table of Contents The applicable regulations provide that interconnection related equipment must conform to the technical standards approved by the MIIT. See “— Technical Standards” below. The MIIT also determines the standard lease tariffs to be paid by telecommunications operators with respect to the leasing of transmission lines that facilitate interconnection between telecommunications networks. Interconnection Charges. The MIIT has made adjustments to the public telecommunications network interconnection settlement standards of basic telecommunications operators in Mainland China. With effect from January 1, 2014, when mobile users of China Telecom and China Unicom in Mainland China and our mobile users in Mainland China (excluding TD-SCDMA users with specified prefix numbers of 157 and 188) make calls to each other, the settlement charges payable by China Telecom and China Unicom to us were adjusted from RMB0.06/minute to RMB0.04/minute, while the settlement charges payable by us to China Telecom and China Unicom remained at RMB0.06/minute. The MIIT will assess the above interconnection settlement policy once every two years based on the development conditions of the telecommunications market and will make adjustments when appropriate. The interconnection settlement policies for TD-SCDMA remain unchanged, meaning that when mobile users of China Telecom and China Unicom in Mainland China and our TD-SCDMA users with specified prefix numbers of 157 and 188 make calls to each other, the settlement charges payable by China Telecom and China Unicom to us are RMB0.06/minute, and the settlement charges payable by us to China Telecom and China Unicom are RMB0.012/minute. When users of different basic telecommunications operators in Mainland China send SMS or MMS to each other, the settlement charges for SMS were adjusted from RMB0.03/message to RMB0.01/message, and the settlement charges for MMS were adjusted from RMB0.10/message to RMB0.05/message. The implementation of asymmetrical interconnection charges such as those described above could materially harm our competitive position, which could in turn significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Technical Standards. Certain regulatory authorities in Mainland China, including the MIIT, set technical standards and control the type, quality, manufacturing and sales of mobile equipment used in or connected to public networks, all radio telecommunications equipment and all interconnection related equipment. The establishment of base stations requires the approval of the relevant provincial regulatory authorities. We have not experienced and do not expect to experience material difficulty in obtaining permission to establish additional sites. Capital Investment. We may be required to obtain approvals from relevant regulatory authorities in Mainland China with respect to some of our investment projects. Sharing of Telecommunications Infrastructure. In March 2014, the MIIT and the SASAC jointly issued the 2014 Implementation Opinions on Promoting the Joint Construction and Sharing of Telecommunications Infrastructure. The opinions required joint construction and sharing of five types of facilities, including transmission towers, transmission poles, base stations, pipelines, and indoor distribution systems, and identified four types of key sites, including public transportation, scenic areas and parks, buildings and other sites designated by local communications authorities, and two key areas of construction, namely the inter-provincial trunk cables and domestic extensions of international transmission systems. The opinions require that, for the construction of base stations, pipelines and other telecommunications infrastructure in the above key areas of construction, both joint construction and joint sharing are mandatory whenever conditions allow. For WLAN construction in the four specified types of key sites, joint construction is mandatory whenever conditions allow. Convergence of Telecom, Broadcasting and Internet Businesses. In January 2010, the PRC government announced a policy decision, or the Three-Network-Convergence Policy, to accelerate the advancement of the convergence of television and radio broadcasting, telecommunications and Internet access businesses in order to realize interconnection and resource sharing between the three networks and further develop the provision of voice, data, television and other services. The PRC government may amend the relevant regulations or promulgate new regulations in order to implement the Three-Network Convergence Policy. In 2012, we received an audio and video transmission license from the former State Administration of Radio, Film and Television of the PRC, which enables us to provide audio and video programs through mobile Internet. -31- Table of Contents Employees As of December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, we had 182,487, 197,030 and 241,550 employees, respectively. Substantially all of our employees are located in Mainland China. The employees as of December 31, 2014 are classified in the following table. Approximately 69.09% of our permanent employees have college or graduate degrees. Set forth below is a breakdown of our employees by function as of December 31, 2014. Management 29,652 Technical 58,849 Marketing 104,089 General affairs 31,495 Other 17,465 Total 241,550 We provide benefits to certain employees, including housing, retirement benefits and hospital, maternity, disability and dependent medical care benefits. Most of our employees are members of a labor association. We have not experienced any strikes, slowdowns or labor disputes that have interfered with our operations during 2014, and we believe that our relations with our employees are good. The number of labor sourced by third parties reached 237,808 by the end of 2014. Properties, Plants and Equipment We own, lease or have usage rights in various properties which consist of land and buildings for offices, administrative centers, staff quarters, retail outlets and technical facilities. We believe that all of our owned and leased properties are well maintained and are suitable and adequate for our present use. Disclosure of Iranian Activities under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act Section 219 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 added Section 13(r) to the Exchange Act. Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act requires an issuer to disclose in its annual or quarterly reports, as applicable, whether it or any of its affiliates knowingly engaged in certain activities, transactions or dealings relating to Iran or with designated natural persons or entities involved in terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Disclosure is required even where the activities, transactions or dealings are conducted outside the U.S. by non-U.S. affiliates in compliance with applicable non-U.S. law, and whether or not the activities are sanctionable under U.S. law. As of the date of this report, we are not aware of any activity, transaction or dealing by us or any of our affiliates in 2014 that requires disclosure in this report under Section 13(r) of the Exchange Act, except as set forth below. CMCC, our parent company, is a party to international GSM roaming agreements with Telecommunication Kish Company and Mobile Company of Iran in Iran, which may be government-controlled entities. China Mobile International, one of our wholly-owned subsidiaries, is a party to an international roaming agreement with Irancell Telecommunications Services Company in Iran, which may be a government-controlled entity. In 2014, our gross revenue generated by roaming traffic under these agreements was less than US$500,000, and our net profit generated by roaming traffic under these agreements was insignificant. China Mobile International intends to, and we understand that CMCC intends to, continue these activities in the future. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects. You should read the following discussion and analysis in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, together with the related notes, included elsewhere in this annual report on Form 20-F. -32- Table of Contents Overview of Our Operations The following table sets forth selected information about our operations for the periods indicated. Year ended December 31, 2012 2013 2014 Total Voice Usage (in billions of minutes) 4,192.3 4,316.0 4,293.9 Mobile Data Traffic (in billions of megabytes) 289.8 526.8 1,132.9 Operating Revenue(1) (in RMB millions) 581,835 630,177 641,448 Operating Expenses(1) (in RMB millions) 429,105 494,528 524,114 Profit Attributable to Equity Shareholders (in RMB millions) 129,274 121,692 109,279 (1) Prior to 2013, the sales of products were incidental to our telecommunications services. In 2013 and 2014, our sales of products have become more than incidental as a result of our business development, and accordingly we present the revenue from sales of products and related cost of products sold separately with the comparative figures also being presented on the same basis. Such change in presentation had no impact on reported profit or net assets for any of the years presented. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, our customer base continued to experience stable growth while our wireless data traffic business continued to experience rapid growth. Our total net increase in the number of customers was 39.4 million in 2014 and our total customer base reached 806.6 million as of December 31, 2014. Our total voice usage increased by 3.0% in 2013 and decreased by 0.5% in 2014. Our mobile data traffic increased by 81.8% in 2013 and by 115.1% in 2014. As a result, our operating revenue increased by 8.3% in 2013 and by 1.8% in 2014. Our data business continued to grow, and our data services revenue accounted for 35.0% and 43.5% of our revenue from telecommunications services in 2013 and 2014, respectively. Our operating expenses increased by 15.2% in 2013 and by 6.0% in 2014. Our profit attributable to equity shareholders decreased by 5.9% in 2013 and by 10.2% in 2014. The PRC economy continued to grow in terms of GDP by 7.4% in 2014, which provided a favorable environment for our continued business development. However, we faced various challenges arising from increased market saturation and intensified competition among mobile operators and from providers offering telecommunications services using alternative technologies, in particular Internet service providers. As the mobile penetration rate in Mainland China reached 94.5% as of December 31, 2014, the mobile markets in some economically developed regions of Mainland China has begun to show signs of saturation. We intend to continue to cope with market and industry challenges that may arise from time to time by leveraging our customer base, network quality, brand name, execution capabilities and quality of our customer service. Moreover, economic growth in the PRC and its modernization and urbanization offer an opportunity and platform for the ongoing development of the telecommunications industry, in particular the development of mobile Internet. Such development presents potential opportunities for us to further develop our wireless data traffic business and applications and information services. We have been a mobile services provider in China since our inception in 1997. We acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of Hong Kong Mobile in 2006, which enabled us to expand into the Hong Kong mobile market. See “