D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to our business We currently conduct no significant business activities, and our results of operations are dependent on the valuation of BioCancell and our ability to sell BioCancell securities at a profit. In July 2008, we acquired a minority stake in BioCancell Therapeutics, Inc., an Israel-based clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. Other than our involvement in BioCancell, we do not currently conduct any significant operations. Accordingly, our results of operations are principally impacted by the value of our holdings in BioCancell. If there are adverse changes in the market price or fair value of BioCancell, our results of operations and/or the value of our assets will be adversely affected, and we may need to write-down the carrying value of our holding. Due to market limitations on the liquidity of BioCancell's shares, and due to material non-public information to which we may be exposed because of our representation on the board of directors of BioCancell, we may face difficulties in our ability to dispose of our securities in BioCancell at a time and in a manner we deem suitable. We source and fund early stage technology projects, which involves a high risk of loss. We provide funding for early-stage biotechnology projects, with an emphasis on solutions for the oncology market. Since we invest at an early stage, the risk of loss is high. In 2011, we recorded aggregate research and development expenses of $92,000 related to such projects. Conditions and changes in the national and global economic and political environments may adversely affect our business and financial results. Current global financial conditions have been characterized by increased volatility and several financial institutions have either gone into bankruptcy or have had to be rescued by governmental authorities. With major financial institutions de-levering their balance sheets, credit was constricted in recent years, and may likely remain so for an extended period. In addition, recent concerns regarding the possibility of sovereign debt defaults by European Union member countries has disrupted financial markets throughout the world, and may lead to weaker consumer demand in the European Union, the United States, and other parts of the world. If economic growth further declines, this may have a negative impact on our financial condition and share price, which may impact our and BioCancell’s ability to obtain financing and other sources of funding in the future on terms favorable to us, if at all. If such increased levels of volatility and market turmoil continue, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 6 The growth of our business depends on our obtaining additional financing, which may be unavailable to us. In order to acquire stakes in and to fund additional operating companies, we will need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings. We may be unable to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms or at all, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. We may not consummate transactions with additional operating companies. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in identifying and evaluating suitable business opportunities or in consummating transactions with additional operating companies. If we do enter into a transaction with an operating company, it is likely to have no significant operating history, losses, limited or no potential for immediate earnings, limited assets, negative net worth or other negative characteristics. In the event that we complete a transaction with one or more operating companies, the success of our operations will be dependent upon the management of such target company or companies and numerous other factors. There is no assurance that we will be able to negotiate additional transactions on terms favorable to us, or at all. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940. We may be deemed an “investment company” under the Investment Company Act of 1940, unless we qualify for an exemption. Even after we acquired a minority stake in BioCancell and although we may acquire stakes in additional operating companies, we may be deemed an investment company if we do not have sufficient control over such companies or qualify for another exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940. If we are deemed an investment company, we could be found to be in violation of the Investment Company Act of 1940. A violation of that law could make it more difficult for us to register securities and raise funding and subject us to other material adverse consequences. Our shareholders may be subject to dilution of the value of our shares if we conduct a business combination or other type of acquisition. A business combination or the acquisition of stakes in operating companies, which are among the business alternatives considered by us, may involve the issuance of a significant number of additional shares. Depending upon the value of the assets acquired in such transaction, the per share value of our ordinary shares may significantly increase or decrease. We might lose money from the investment of our cash. We invest the majority of our cash on hand in financial instruments. If the obligor of any of the instruments we hold defaults or undergoes a reorganization in bankruptcy, we may lose all or a portion of our investment. This would harm our financial condition. For information on the types of our investments as of December 31, 2011, see Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk--Interest Rate Risk Management.” 7 We are subject to costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer in Israel subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we are required to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, various SEC regulations and the Israeli Companies Law. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestation of the effectiveness of these controls by our management. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. The additional management attention and costs relating to compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other corporate governance requirements could materially and adversely affect our financial results. Risks relating to our holdings in BioCancell We provided funding to BioCancell, an Israel-based early stage clinical-stage biopharmaceutical company. Our success is dependent to a significant degree on the success of BioCancell. We have provided $2.5 million of funding to BioCancell and designated a member of its board of directors. BioCancell is a clinical-stage company developing new drugs for the treatment of solid tumors of cancer. It is expected that BioCancell will operate at a loss over the coming years and will not generate any revenue from operations in the near term. To be profitable, BioCancell must successfully research, develop, obtain regulatory approval for, manufacture, introduce, market and distribute its drugs, either independently or through licensing transactions. Although BioCancell is conducting a clinical phase IIb trial and two phase I/IIa trials with its leading drug candidate, the path necessary to achieve these goals for its drug product is long and uncertain. Before BioCancell can sell any drug, it will be required to demonstrate through a phase III clinical trial that it is safe and effective for human use in the treatment of individuals with cancer, and will probably have to include a requested primary goal of improved overall survival. The senior management of Biocancell has limited experience in conducting advanced clinical trials and in commercialization of drug product and no assurance can be given that BioCancell will be able to successfully complete the clinical trials for its drugs in development in accordance with the standards of the U.S. Federal Drug Administration, or the FDA, and other non-U.S. regulatory standards. If BioCancell does not successfully meet its scientific, regulatory, financial and commercial challenges, then the value of the securities we hold of BioCancell may significantly decline and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially harmed. If BioCancell defaults on our convertible note, our financial condition could be materially harmed. The convertible note issued to us by BioCancell in July 2008 in the principal amount of $2.0 million matures in July 30, 2012. After giving effect to accrued interest, as of December 31, 2011, the amount owing under the note was $2.5 million. As of December 31, 2011, BioCancell reported a negative working capital of $3.4 million, and its average monthly burn rate in 2011 was approximately $0.4 million. If BioCancell defaults on our note, we may not be able to recover the full amount owing to us and our financial condition could be materially harmed. 8 BioCancell’s approach to discover and develop prospective therapeutic products is new and may never lead to marketable products. BioCancell has concentrated its efforts on developing therapeutic products utilizing target genes, such as the H19 and IGF2 genes, which is a new field of drug research and development. BioCancell’s focus solely on developing therapeutic products utilizing target genes as opposed to more proven technologies for the development of therapeutic products increases the risks associated with the ownership of its securities. Further, BioCancell's focus is mainly on direct injection of its drug-candidates into the solid tumors and, as a result, it does not directly address cancer metastasis. If BioCancell is unsuccessful in having clinical efficacy with its drug-candidates, our investment in BioCancell may significantly decline and our results of operations and financial condition may be materially harmed. BioCancell requires additional funding, which may further draw on our resources or result in significant dilution of our ownership. BioCancell requires substantial funding to discover, develop, protect and conduct research and development for its drug-candidates primarily for clinical trials of each cancer indication, and to manufacture and market any such product that may be approved for commercial sale. The current economic environment may cause difficulties in raising the funds needed for BioCancell to continue its operations. We might allocate additional funds to support BioCancell in the future, in which case our cash reserves will decline and the dependence of our results on the results of BioCancell will increase. If we do not allocate additional funds to BioCancell, our holding in BioCancell could be diluted, our influence over its business could weaken and the value of our holding could materially decline. In January 2012, BioCancell raised $3 million from Clal Biotechnology Ltd., or CBI, and other investors in a private placement of 11,144,400 shares of BioCancell, at a price of NIS 1.00 per share. Pursuant to the anti-dilution adjustment provisions in our agreements with BioCancell, we received 1,025,979 shares of common stock and the exercise/conversion prices of our BioCancell warrant and convertible note decreased to NIS 1.00 per share. Following this private placement and after taking into account these adjustments, our holdings in BioCancell decreased to 21.3% of BioCancell's outstanding capital stock on a fully diluted basis. The pharmaceutical and biotechnology market is highly competitive. If BioCancell is unable to compete effectively with existing products, new treatment methods and new technologies, it may be unable to commercialize any therapeutic products that it may develop. The biotechnology market is highly competitive, is subject to rapid technological change and is significantly affected by existing rival drugs and medical procedures, new product introductions and the market activities of other participants. Pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies pursue the research and development of technologies and other therapeutic products for the treatment of all of the diseases that BioCancell is targeting, including superficial bladder carcinoma, pancreatic and ovarian cancer. The competitors of BioCancell may develop products more rapidly or more effectively than BioCancell. Many of these competitors have: much greater experience and much greater financial, technical and human resources than BioCancell at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization process; more extensive experience in pre-clinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining and maintaining regulatory approvals and in manufacturing and marketing therapeutic products; products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; established distribution networks; collaborative arrangements in target markets with leading companies and research institutions; and entrenched and established relationships with healthcare providers and payors. 9 As a result of any of the foregoing factors, BioCancell’s competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any therapeutic products that it develops. If BioCancell’s competitors are more successful in commercializing their products than BioCancell, their success could adversely affect its competitive position and harm its business prospects. BioCancell’s exclusive license to its lead patents expire in 2017, and BioCancell may face increased competition from third parties who will be able to freely use the technologies that BioCancell has developed. Some of the patents underlying the exclusive license that Yissum Research Development Company of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, or Yissum, has granted to BioCancell, will expire beginning in 2017, after which time, any one or more of BioCancell’s competitors could develop generic alternatives to BioCancell’s drug-candidates. The commercialization of a generic alternative would likely drive down the price that BioCancell is able to charge for its products. This would materially harm BioCancell’s results of operations. BioCancell's drug-candidate BC-819 was granted an "orphan drug" status under U.S. FDA rules for treatment of ovarian cancer and for treatment pancreatic cancer. The main benefit for having orphan drug status is the right to market the drug exclusively for 7 years in the U.S. from the date of its approval for marketing. Unless BioCancell is successful in extending the patent protection on its drugs beyond 2017 by having new patent protection or by applying for an "orphan drug" status under U.S. FDA rules for additional cancer indications (see below under Item 4B. "Business Overview—BioCancell--BioCancell's Intellectual Property Rights"), the value of BioCancell’s drugs from FDA approval of its drugs to market through 2017 may not commercially support the risks involved and expenses required to conclude FDA-approved clinical trials, thus resulting in an early termination of the development of its drugs. BioCancell is required, and may be required in the future, to license patent rights from third party owners in order to develop its prospective therapeutic products in the future. If BioCancell cannot obtain and comply with the terms of such licenses or if such owners do not properly maintain or enforce the patents underlying such licenses, BioCancell’s competitive position and business prospects will be harmed. BioCancell currently licenses technologies and other patents in conducting its research and development activities and it may be required to obtain additional licenses in the future in the event that it believes it is necessary or useful for its business and its research and development efforts to use third party intellectual property or if its efforts would infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. Additionally, should BioCancell succeed in obtaining any such license, its business prospects will depend in part on the ability of its licensors to obtain, maintain and enforce patent protection for its licensed intellectual property, in particular, those patents for which BioCancell secured exclusive rights such as the exclusive license granted to BioCancell by Yissum in connection with its research on the H19 gene. BioCancell’s licensors may terminate the license, may not successfully prosecute or may fail to maintain their patent applications to which BioCancell is licensed, may determine not to pursue litigation against other persons that are infringing these patents or may pursue such litigation less aggressively than BioCancell would. Without protection for the intellectual property that BioCancell has licensed and for which it may obtain licenses in the future, other companies might be able to offer substantially identical products for sale, which could adversely affect BioCancell’s competitive position and harm its business prospects. 10 BioCancell relies on a limited number of third parties for the supply of certain major components for its drugs and other raw materials required for its research and development activities. If BioCancell is unable to reach agreements with these third parties or if it is unable to maintain its contractual relationships with these third parties, BioCancell’s research and development activities would be delayed. BioCancell relies on third parties for the provision of materials required for the production of its leading drug candidate and for its research and development activities. Obtaining these materials requires various approvals as well as reaching a commercial agreement on acceptable terms with the provider of the materials. BioCancell may not be able to reach agreements with a sufficient number of suppliers or do so on terms acceptable to it. If BioCancell is unable to reach acceptable agreements with a sufficient number of suppliers of research materials, its research and development activities will be delayed and its ability to implement its business plan will be compromised. Risks relating to our presence in Israel Our incorporation in Israel may limit our ability to find a target for a business combination or other transactions outside Israel. We are incorporated and headquartered in Israel, and BioCancell is headquartered in Israel. A state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Ongoing violence between Israel and the Palestinians, as well as tension between Israel, Iran, Syria and Lebanon, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions and results of operations. Recent political events in various countries in the Middle East and Northern Africa have shaken the stability of those countries. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region, such as Hamas in Gaza and Hezbollah in Lebanon. This situation may potentially escalate in the future to violent events which may affect Israel and us. We cannot predict the effect on us of the increase in the degree of terror attacks against Israel, political instability in the region or military action elsewhere in the Middle East. Furthermore, several countries restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional companies may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of an increase in hostilities. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers named herein may be difficult to effect within the United States because some of these people reside outside the United States. Any judgment obtained in the United States against us or these individuals or entities may not be enforceable within the United States. 11 It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if any Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: • the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; • adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard; • the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and • an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. If a foreign judgment is enforced by an Israeli court, it generally will be payable in new Israeli shekels, which can then be converted into non-Israeli currency and transferred out of Israel. The usual practice in an action to recover an amount in non-Israeli currency is for the Israeli court to render judgment for the equivalent amount in new Israeli shekels at the rate of exchange on the date of payment, but the judgment debtor also may make payment in non-Israeli currency. Pending collection, the amount of the judgment of an Israeli court stated in new Israeli shekels ordinarily will be linked to the Israel Consumer Price Index plus interest at the annual rate (set by Israeli law) prevailing at that time. Judgment creditors bear the risk of unfavorable exchange rates. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or make more difficult a merger or other business combination, which may depress our share price. Provisions of Israeli corporate law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult a merger with, or acquisition of, us. The Israeli Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. For purposes of the shareholder vote, unless a court rules otherwise, the merger will not be deemed approved if a majority of the shares not held by the other party to the merger (or by any person who holds 25% or more of the shares or the right to appoint 25% or more of the directors of the other party or its general manager) have voted against the merger. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy the obligations of the surviving company. Finally, a merger may not be completed unless at least (i) 50 days have passed since the filing of a merger proposal signed by both parties with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and (ii) 30 days have passed since the merger was approved by the shareholders of each merging company. 12 The Companies Law also provides that an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 25% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already another 25% or greater shareholder of the company. Similarly, an acquisition of shares must be made by means of a tender offer if as a result of the acquisition the purchaser would become a 45% or greater shareholder of the company, unless there is already a 45% or greater shareholder of the company. In any event, if as a result of an acquisition of shares the acquirer will hold more than 90% of a company’s shares, the acquisition must be made by means of a tender offer for all of the shares. Finally, Israel tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. For example, Israeli tax law may, under certain circumstances, subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation, to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for-stock swap. The described restrictions could prevent or make more difficult an acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. Risks relating to the market for our ordinary shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents face certain potentially adverse U.S federal income tax consequences. As a consequence of our ownership of relatively substantial cash and investment assets, it is likely that we would be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as having been a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for each year since 2003, although the determination of PFIC status is made separately for each year and our PFIC status could change. Classification as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to U.S. holders of our ordinary shares, which could, in turn, cause a reduction in the value of our ordinary shares. Classification as a PFIC also triggers the application of certain United States tax reporting requirements. U.S. residents should carefully read Item 10.E “Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” for a more complete discussion of the U.S. federal income tax risks related to owning and disposing of our ordinary shares and the consequences of PFIC status. The trading market for our ordinary shares has low liquidity, which could make it difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. Our ordinary shares currently are traded on the Pink Sheets Electronic Quotation Service. Currently, we do not meet the initial listing conditions of the Nasdaq Stock Market. The market for shares quoted on the Pink Sheets is typically less liquid than that for shares listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market. This could make it more difficult for our shareholders to sell their shares at desired prices and amounts. 13 The market price of our ordinary shares is subject to fluctuations. The market value of our ordinary shares has fluctuated over time. The following factors, among others, may significantly impact the market price of our ordinary shares: • the market price of BioCancell on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange; • low trading volume of our ordinary shares; • BioCancell, its competitors or other third parties announcing business news, including new products, failures in the development of products, regulatory developments, new clinical data regarding current or future products, or earnings or losses; • political, economic or other developments affecting Israel; • global economic and other external factors; and • quarter-to-quarter fluctuations in our financial results. Two shareholders may be able to control us. Eric Paneth, one of our directors, beneficially owns approximately 13.0% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Izhak Tamir, our Chairman of the Board, beneficially owns approximately 11.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Currently, Messrs. Paneth and Tamir are not party to a shareholders agreement. However, if Messrs. Paneth and Tamir act together, they effectively may have the power to control the outcome of all matters submitted for the vote of our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of significant change in control transactions. Their combined equity interest in us may have the effect of making certain transactions more difficult and may result in delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of Tikcro unless approved by one or both of them. Our shareholder bonus rights plan may delay, prevent or make more difficult a hostile acquisition of Tikcro, which could depress our share price. In September 2005, we adopted a shareholder bonus rights plan pursuant to which share purchase bonus rights were distributed to our shareholders. These rights generally will be exercisable and transferable apart from our ordinary shares only if a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of 15% or more of our ordinary shares, or commences a tender or exchange offer upon consummation of which that person or group would hold such a beneficial interest. Once these rights become exercisable and transferable, the holders of rights, other than the person or group triggering their transferability, will be generally entitled to purchase our ordinary shares at a discount from the market price. The rights will expire on December 31, 2015. While these rights remain outstanding, they may make an acquisition of us more difficult and result in delaying or preventing a change in control of Tikcro. 14 