ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS A description of the risks and uncertainties associated with our business is set forth below. If any of such risks and uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could differ materially from the plans, projections and other forward-looking statements included in the section titled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this report and in our other public filings. In addition, if any of the following risks and uncertainties, or if any other risks and uncertainties, actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be harmed substantially, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline, perhaps significantly. Risks Related to Our Business Continued adverse economic conditions or reduced investments in on-demand applications and information technology spending may harm our business. Our business depends on the overall demand for on-demand applications and information technology spending and on the economic health and general willingness of our current and prospective customers to make capital commitments. If the conditions in the U.S. and global economic environment remain uncertain or continue to be volatile, or if they deteriorate further, our business, operating results, and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Continued weak or volatile economic conditions, or a reduction in spending for on-demand applications and information technology even if economic conditions improve, would likely harm our business and operating results in a number of ways, including longer sales cycles, extended payment terms, lower prices for our products and services, reduced sales, and lower customer retention rates. We have a history of losses and we may not achieve profitability in the future. We have not been profitable on a generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) basis during any quarterly or annual period since our formation. We experienced a net loss of $15.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of that date, our accumulated deficit was $260.8 million. We expect to make significant future expenditures related to the development and expansion of our business. In addition, as a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. As a result of these increased expenditures, we will have to generate and sustain increased revenue to achieve and maintain future profitability. While historically our revenue has grown, this growth may not be sustainable and we may not achieve sufficient revenue to achieve or maintain profitability. We may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the other risks described in this Annual Report, and we may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. Accordingly, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability and we may continue to incur significant losses for the foreseeable future. Our customers are medium-sized businesses and divisions of large companies, which may result in increased costs as we attempt to reach, acquire and retain customers. We market and sell our application suite to medium-sized businesses and divisions of large companies. To grow our revenue quickly, we must add new customers, sell additional services to existing customers and encourage existing customers to renew their subscriptions. However, selling to and retaining medium-sized businesses can be more difficult than selling to and retaining large enterprises because medium-sized business customers: • are more price sensitive; • are more difficult to reach with broad marketing campaigns; • have high churn rates in part because of the nature of their businesses; • often lack the staffing to benefit fully from our application suite’s rich feature set; and 14 Table of Contents • often require higher sales, marketing and support expenditures by vendors that sell to them per revenue dollar generated for those vendors. If we are unable to cost-effectively market and sell our service to our target customers, our ability to grow our revenue quickly and become profitable will be harmed. Our business depends substantially on customers renewing, upgrading and expanding their subscriptions for our services. Any decline in our customer renewals, upgrades and expansions would harm our future operating results. We sell our application suite pursuant to service agreements that are generally one year in length. Our customers have no obligation to renew their subscriptions after their subscription period expires, and these subscriptions may not be renewed at the same or higher levels. Moreover, under specific circumstances, our customers have the right to cancel their service agreements before they expire. In addition, in the first year of a subscription, customers often purchase a higher level of professional services than they do in renewal years. As a result, our ability to grow is dependent in part on customers purchasing additional subscriptions and modules after the first year of their subscriptions. We have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, upgrades and expansions so we may not accurately predict future trends in customer renewals. Our customers’ renewal rates may decline or fluctuate because of several factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our services, the prices of our services, the prices of services offered by our competitors or reductions in our customers’ spending levels due to the macroeconomic environment or other factors. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions for our services, renew on less favorable terms, or do not purchase additional functionality or subscriptions, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline and our profitability and gross margin may be harmed. Our services are delivered primarily out of a single data center. Any disruption of service at this facility could interrupt or delay our ability to deliver our service to our customers. We host our services and serve our customers primarily from a third-party data center facility with SAVVIS located in California. We do not control the operation of this facility. This facility is vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, terrorist attacks, power losses, telecommunications failures and similar events. Our data facility is located in an area known for seismic activity, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of this facility. It also could be subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We currently operate and maintain an offsite facility for customers who specifically pay for accelerated disaster recovery services. For customers who do not pay for such services, although we maintain tape backups of their data, we do not operate or maintain a separate disaster recovery facility, which may increase delays in the restoration of our service for those customers. Our data center facility provider has no obligation to renew its agreement with us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. If we are unable to renew our agreement with the facility provider on commercially reasonable terms or if in the future we add additional data center facility providers, we may experience costs or downtime in connection with the transfer to, or the addition of, a new data center facility. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. Interruptions in our services might reduce our revenue, cause us to issue credits to customers, subject us to potential liability, cause customers to terminate their subscriptions and harm our renewal rates. 15 Table of Contents We may become liable to our customers and lose customers if we have defects or disruptions in our service or if we provide poor service. Because we deliver our application suite as a service, errors or defects in the software applications underlying our service, or a failure of our hosting infrastructure, may make our service unavailable to our customers. Since our customers use our suite to manage critical aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our suite, whether in connection with the day-to-day operation of our suite, upgrades or otherwise, could damage our customers’ businesses. If we have any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our suite, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or costly litigation. The market for on-demand applications may develop more slowly than we expect. Our success will depend, to a large extent, on the willingness of medium-sized businesses to accept on-demand services for applications that they view as critical to the success of their business. Many companies have invested substantial effort and financial resources to integrate traditional enterprise software into their businesses and may be reluctant or unwilling to switch to a different application or to migrate these applications to on-demand services. Other factors that may affect market acceptance of our application include: • the security capabilities, reliability and availability of on-demand services; • customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, especially confidential or sensitive data; • our ability to minimize the time and resources required to implement our suite; • our ability to maintain high levels of customer satisfaction; • our ability to implement upgrades and other changes to our software without disrupting our service; • the level of customization or configuration we offer; • our ability to provide rapid response time during periods of intense activity on customer websites; and • the price, performance and availability of competing products and services. The market for these services may not develop further, or may develop more slowly than we expect, either of which would harm our business. If our security measures are breached and unauthorized access is obtained to a customer’s data, we may incur significant liabilities, our service may be perceived as not being secure and customers may curtail or stop using our suite. The services we offer involve the storage of large amounts of our customers’ sensitive and proprietary information. If our security measures are breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, and someone obtains unauthorized access to our customers’ data, we could incur significant liability to our customers and to individuals or businesses whose information was being stored by our customers, our business may suffer and our reputation will be damaged. Because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or to sabotage, systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose sales and customers. Such an actual or perceived breach could also cause a significant and rapid decline in our stock price. 16 Table of Contents We provide service level commitments to our customers, which could cause us to issue credits for future services if the stated service levels are not met for a given period and could significantly harm our revenue. Our customer agreements provide service level commitments. If we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our service, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future services. Our revenue could be significantly impacted if we suffer unscheduled downtime that exceeds the allowed downtimes under our agreements with our customers. In light of our historical experience with meeting our service level commitments, we do not currently have any reserves on our balance sheet for these commitments. Our service level commitment to all customers is 99.5% uptime per period, excluding scheduled maintenance. The failure to meet this level of service availability may require us to credit qualifying customers for the value of an entire month of their subscription fees, not just the value of the subscription fee for the period of the downtime. As a result, a failure to deliver services for a relatively short duration could cause us to issue these credits to all qualifying customers. Any extended service outages could harm our reputation, revenue and operating results. We have experienced rapid growth in recent periods. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. We have increased our annual revenue from $17.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $152.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2008. We have increased our number of full-time employees from 296 at December 31, 2004 to 971 at December 31, 2008. Our expansion has placed, and our anticipated growth may continue to place, a significant strain on our managerial, administrative, operational, financial and other resources. We intend to further expand our overall business, customer base, headcount and operations. We also intend to continue expanding our operations internationally. Creating a global organization and managing a geographically dispersed workforce will require substantial management effort and significant additional investment in our infrastructure. We will be required to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting procedures and we may not be able to do so effectively. As such, we may be unable to manage our expenses effectively in the future, which may negatively impact our gross margin or operating expenses in any particular quarter. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate in the future. As a result, we may fail to meet or exceed the expectations of research analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. A decline in general macroeconomic conditions could adversely affect our customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our application suite, which could adversely affect our operating results or financial outlook. Fluctuations in our quarterly operating annual results or financial outlook may also be due to a number of additional factors, including the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report. Fluctuations in our operating results could cause our stock price to decline rapidly, may lead analysts to change their long-term model for valuing our common stock, may impact our ability to retain or attract key personnel, or cause other unanticipated issues. If our operating results or financial outlook fall below the expectations of research analysts or investors, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. We believe that our revenue and operating results may vary significantly in the future and that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. You should not rely on the results of one quarter as an indication of future performance. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our current business and future prospects, and may increase the risk of your investment. Our company has been in existence since 1998, and much of our growth has occurred since 2004, with our revenue increasing from $17.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2004 to $152.5 million during the 17 Table of Contents year ended December 31, 2008. Our limited operating history may make it difficult to evaluate our current business and our future prospects. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and difficulties frequently experienced by growing companies in rapidly changing industries. If we do not address these risks successfully, our business may be harmed. The market in which we participate is intensely competitive, and if we do not compete effectively, our operating results may be harmed. The markets for ERP, CRM and Ecommerce applications are intensely competitive and rapidly changing with relatively low barriers to entry. With the introduction of new technologies and market entrants, we expect competition to intensify in the future. In addition, pricing pressures and increased competition generally could result in reduced sales, reduced margin or the failure of our service to achieve or maintain more widespread market acceptance. Often we compete to sell our application suite against existing systems that our potential customers have already made significant expenditures to install. Competition in our market is based principally upon service breadth and functionality; service performance, security and reliability; ability to tailor and customize services for a specific company, vertical or industry; ease of use of the service; speed and ease of deployment, integration and configuration; total cost of ownership, including price and implementation and support costs; professional services implementation; and financial resources of the vendor. We face competition from both traditional software vendors and SaaS providers. Our principal competitors include Epicor Software Corporation, Intuit Inc., Microsoft Corporation, SAP, The Sage Group plc and salesforce.com, inc. Many of our actual and potential competitors enjoy substantial competitive advantages over us, such as greater name recognition, longer operating histories, more varied products and services and larger marketing budgets, as well as substantially greater financial, technical and other resources. In addition, many of our competitors have established marketing relationships and access to larger customer bases, and have major distribution agreements with consultants, system integrators and resellers. If we are not able to compete effectively, our operating results will be harmed. Our brand name and our business may be harmed by aggressive marketing strategies of our competitors. Because of the early stage of development of our markets, we believe that building and maintaining brand recognition and customer goodwill is critical to our success. Our efforts in this area have, on occasion, been complicated by the marketing efforts of our competitors, which may include incomplete, inaccurate and false statements about our company and our services that could harm our business. Our ability to respond to our competitors’ misleading marketing efforts may be limited under certain circumstances by legal prohibitions on permissible public communications by us as a public company. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and if the prices we charge for our services are unacceptable to our customers, our operating results will be harmed. Many of our customers are price sensitive, and we have limited experience with respect to determining the appropriate prices for our services. As the market for our services matures, or as new competitors introduce new products or services that compete with ours, we may be unable to renew our agreements with existing customers or attract new customers at the same price or based on the same pricing model as previously used. As a result, it is possible that competitive dynamics in our market may require us to change our pricing model or reduce our prices, which could harm our revenue, gross margin and operating results. If we are unable to develop new services or sell our services into new markets, our revenue growth will be harmed and we may not be able to achieve profitability. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenue from existing customers will depend in large part on our ability to enhance and improve our existing application suite and to introduce new services and sell into 18 Table of Contents new markets. The success of any enhancement or new service depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of the enhancement or service. Any new service we develop or acquire may not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and may not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenue. Any new markets into which we attempt to sell our application, including new vertical markets and new countries or regions, may not be receptive. If we are unable to successfully develop or acquire new services, enhance our existing services to meet customer requirements or sell our services into new markets, our revenue will not grow as expected and we may not be able to achieve profitability. Because we are a global organization and our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our services to customers located outside of the United States, our business is susceptible to risks associated with international sales and operations. We currently maintain offices outside of the United States and have sales personnel or independent consultants in several countries. Approximately one quarter of our employees are located in an office in the Philippines. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions and are rapidly building our international operations. Managing a global organization is difficult, time consuming and expensive. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of the United States increases the risk that any international expansion efforts that we may undertake will not be successful. In addition, conducting international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: • localization of our services, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • lack of familiarity with and unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; • longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; • difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • dependence on certain third parties, including channel partners with whom we do not have extensive experience; • the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and legal standards; • increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; • political, social and economic instability abroad, terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. Operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. The investment and additional resources required to establish operations and manage growth in other countries may not produce desired levels of revenue or profitability. We rely on third-party software, including Oracle database software, that may be difficult to replace or which could cause errors or failures of our service that could lead to lost customers or harm to our reputation. We rely on software licensed from third parties to offer our service, including database software from Oracle. This software may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Any loss of the right to use any of this software could result in delays in the provisioning of our service until equivalent technology is either developed by us, or, if available, is identified, obtained and integrated, which 19 Table of Contents could harm our business. Any errors or defects in third-party software could result in errors or a failure of our service which could harm our business. Assertions by a third party that we infringe its intellectual property, whether successful or not, could subject us to costly and time-consuming litigation or expensive licenses. The software and technology industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and by frequent litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. As we face increasing competition, the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us may grow. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Additionally, although we have licensed from other parties proprietary technology covered by patents, we cannot be certain that any such patents will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. Furthermore, many of our service agreements require us to indemnify our customers for certain third-party intellectual property infringement claims, which could increase our costs as a result of defending such claims and may require that we pay damages if there were an adverse ruling related to any such claims. These types of claims could harm our relationships with our customers, may deter future customers from subscribing to our services or could expose us to litigation for these claims. Even if we are not a party to any litigation between a customer and a third party, an adverse outcome in any such litigation could make it more difficult for us to defend our intellectual property in any subsequent litigation in which we are a named party. Any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management attention and financial resources. An adverse determination also could prevent us from offering our suite to our customers and may require that we procure or develop substitute services that do not infringe. For any intellectual property rights claim against us or our customers, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms, if at all, may significantly increase our operating expenses or may require us to restrict our business activities in one or more respects. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. Our success depends in large part on our ability to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, service mark, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality procedures and contractual restrictions, to establish and protect our proprietary rights, all of which provide only limited protection. We cannot assure you that any patents will issue from our currently pending patent applications in a manner that gives us the protection that we seek, if at all, or that any future patents issued to us will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. We do not have any issued patents and currently have eight patent applications pending. Any patents that may issue in the future from pending or future patent applications may not provide sufficiently broad protection or they may not prove to be enforceable in actions against alleged infringers. Also, we cannot assure you that any future service mark or trademark registrations will be issued for pending or future applications or that any registered service marks or trademarks will be enforceable or provide adequate protection of our proprietary rights. We endeavor to enter into agreements with our employees and contractors and agreements with parties with whom we do business to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. The steps we have taken, however, may not prevent unauthorized use or the reverse engineering of our technology. Moreover, others may independently develop technologies that are competitive to ours or infringe our intellectual property. Enforcement of our intellectual property rights also depends on our successful legal actions against these infringers, but these actions may not be successful, even when our rights have been infringed. Furthermore, effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our services are available. In addition, the legal standards relating to the 20 Table of Contents validity, enforceability and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in Internet-related industries are uncertain and still evolving. If we fail to maintain proper and effective internal controls, our ability to produce accurate and timely financial statements could be impaired and investors’ views of us could be harmed. Ensuring that we have adequate internal financial and accounting controls and procedures in place so that we can produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis is a costly and time-consuming effort that needs to be re-evaluated frequently. Our internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Although we have completed the process of documenting, reviewing and improving our internal controls and procedures for compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires annual management assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and a report by our independent auditors on our internal control over financial reporting for the year ending December 31, 2008, there can be no assurances that control deficiencies will not be identified in the future. Implementing any additional required changes to our internal controls may distract our officers and employees, entail substantial costs to modify our existing processes and add personnel and take significant time to complete. These changes may not, however, be effective in maintaining the adequacy of our internal controls. Any failure to maintain that adequacy, or consequent inability to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis, could increase our operating costs and harm our business. In addition, investors’ perceptions that our internal controls are inadequate or that we are unable to produce accurate financial statements on a timely basis may harm our stock price and make it more difficult for us to effectively market and sell our service to new and existing customers. Because we recognize subscription revenue over the term of the applicable agreement, the lack of subscription renewals or new service agreements may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. The majority of our quarterly revenue is attributable to service agreements entered into during previous quarters. A decline in new or renewed service agreements in any one quarter will not be fully reflected in our revenue in that quarter but will harm our revenue in future quarters. As a result, the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our services in a particular quarter may not be fully reflected in our operating results until future periods. Our subscription model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our revenue through additional sales in any period, because revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription term. Material defects or errors in the software we use to deliver our services could harm our reputation, result in significant costs to us and impair our ability to sell our services. The software applications underlying our services are inherently complex and may contain material defects or errors, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. We have from time to time found defects in our service, and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. Any defects that cause interruptions to the availability of our services could result in: • a reduction in sales or delay in market acceptance of our services; • sales credits or refunds to our customers; • loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers; • diversion of development resources; • harm to our reputation; and • increased warranty and insurance costs. 21 Table of Contents After the release of our services, defects or errors may also be identified from time to time by our internal team and by our customers. The costs incurred in correcting any material defects or errors in our services may be substantial and could harm our operating results. Government regulation of the Internet and Ecommerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or our failure to comply with regulations could harm our operating results. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. For example, we believe increased regulation is likely in the area of data privacy, and laws and regulations applying to the solicitation, collection, processing or use of personal or consumer information could affect our customers’ ability to use and share data, potentially reducing demand for ERP, CRM and Ecommerce solutions and restricting our ability to store, process and share our customers’ data. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may also be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business and operating results. Privacy concerns and laws or other domestic or foreign regulations may reduce the effectiveness of our application suite and harm our business. Our customers can use our service to store personal or identifying information regarding their customers and contacts. Federal, state and foreign government bodies and agencies, however, have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations regarding the collection, use and disclosure of personal information obtained from consumers and other individuals. The costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws and regulations that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of our service and reduce overall demand for it. In addition to government activity, privacy advocacy groups and the technology and other industries are considering various new, additional or different self-regulatory standards that may place additional burdens on us. If the gathering of personal information were to be curtailed, ERP, CRM and Ecommerce solutions would be less effective, which may reduce demand for our service and harm our business. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and harm our operating results. A change in accounting standards or practices could harm our operating results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules or the questioning of current practices may harm our operating results or the way we conduct our business. Unanticipated changes in our effective tax rate could harm our future operating results. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions, and our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of expenses in differing jurisdictions. Our tax rate is affected by changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, certain non-deductible expenses arising from the requirement to expense stock options and the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, including our ability to utilize our net operating losses. Increases in our effective tax rate could harm our operating results. 22 Table of Contents We may be unable to integrate acquired businesses and technologies successfully or to achieve the expected benefits of such acquisitions. We may acquire or invest in additional companies, which may divert our management’s attention, result in additional dilution to our stockholders and consume resources that are necessary to sustain our business. We have undertaken an acquisition in the past and may continue to evaluate and consider potential strategic transactions, including acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets in the future. An acquisition, investment or business relationship may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. In particular, we may encounter difficulties assimilating or integrating the businesses, technologies, products, personnel or operations of the acquired companies, particularly if the key personnel of the acquired company choose not to work for us, the company’s software is not easily adapted to work with ours or we have difficulty retaining the customers of any acquired business due to changes in management or otherwise. Acquisitions may also disrupt our business, divert our resources and require significant management attention that would otherwise be available for development of our business. Moreover, the anticipated benefits of any acquisition, investment or business relationship may not be realized or we may be exposed to unknown liabilities. We may in the future seek to acquire or invest in additional businesses, products, technologies or other assets. We also may enter into relationships with other businesses to expand our service offerings or our ability to provide service in foreign jurisdictions, which could involve preferred or exclusive licenses, additional channels of distribution, discount pricing or investments in other companies. Negotiating these transactions can be time-consuming, difficult and expensive, and our ability to close these transactions may often be subject to approvals that are beyond our control. Consequently, these transactions, even if undertaken and announced, may not close. For one or more of those transactions, we may: • issue additional equity securities that would dilute our stockholders; • use cash that we may need in the future to operate our business; • incur debt on terms unfavorable to us or that we are unable to repay; • incur large charges or substantial liabilities; • encounter difficulties retaining key employees of the acquired company or integrating diverse software codes or business cultures; and • become subject to adverse tax consequences, substantial depreciation or deferred compensation charges. Any of these risks could harm our business and operating results. We rely on our management team and need additional personnel to grow our business, and the loss of one or more key employees or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business. Our success and future growth depends to a significant degree on the skills and continued services of our management team, especially Zachary Nelson, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Evan M. Goldberg, our Chief Technology Officer and Chairman of the Board. We do not maintain key man insurance on any members of our management team, including Messrs. Nelson and Goldberg. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, marketing and service and support personnel, including members of our management team. Competition for sales, marketing and technology development personnel is particularly intense in the software and technology industries. As a result, we may be unable to successfully attract or retain qualified personnel. Our inability to attract and retain the necessary personnel could harm our business. 23 Table of Contents Risks Related to Ownership of our Common Stock Lawrence J. Ellison or members of his family, and related entities, beneficially own a majority of our outstanding shares of common stock, which may limit your ability to influence or control certain of our corporate actions. This concentration of ownership may also reduce the market price of our common stock and impair a takeover attempt of us. Entities beneficially owned by Lawrence J. Ellison hold an aggregate of approximately 53.2% of our common stock as of December 31, 2008. Further, Mr. Ellison, his family members, trusts for their benefit, and related entities together beneficially own an aggregate of approximately 64.5% of our common stock as of that date. Mr. Ellison is able to exercise control over approval of significant corporate transactions, including a change of control or liquidation. In addition, if the voting restrictions that apply to NetSuite Restricted Holdings LLC, the investment entity to which Mr. Ellison has transferred his shares, lapse or are amended, Mr. Ellison will be able to exercise control over additional corporate matters, including elections of our directors. So long as Mr. Ellison continues to be either an officer or director of Oracle, these voting restrictions cannot be changed without the approval of an independent committee of Oracle’s board of directors. Mr. Ellison’s interests and investment objectives may differ from our other stockholders. Mr. Ellison is also the Chief Executive Officer, a principal stockholder and a director of Oracle Corporation. Oracle supplies us with database software on which we rely to provide our service and is also a potential competitor of ours. Our Board of Directors adopted resolutions which renounce and provide for a waiver of the corporate opportunity doctrine as it relates to Mr. Ellison. As a result, Mr. Ellison will have no fiduciary duty to present corporate opportunities to us. In addition, Mr. Ellison’s indirect majority interest in us could discourage potential acquirers or result in a delay or prevention of a change in control of our company or other significant corporate transactions, even if a transaction of that sort would be beneficial to our other stockholders or in our best interest. We are a “controlled company” within the meaning of the rules of the New York Stock Exchange and, as a result, will qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. Because a majority of our common stock is held by a single stockholder, we qualify for exemptions from certain corporate governance standards. Under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by a single person or a group of persons is a “controlled company” and may elect not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the Board of Directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the compensation of officers be determined, or recommended to the Board of Directors for determination, by a majority of the independent directors or a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors and (3) the requirement that director nominees be selected, or recommended for the Board of Directors’ selection, by a majority of the independent directors or a nominating committee comprised solely of independent directors with a written charter or board resolution addressing the nomination process. Our failure to raise additional capital or generate the cash flows necessary to expand our operations and invest in our application services could reduce our ability to compete successfully. We may need to raise additional funds, and we may not be able to obtain additional debt or equity financing on favorable terms, if at all. If we raise additional equity financing, our stockholders may experience significant dilution of their ownership interests and the per share value of our common stock could decline. If we engage in debt financing, we may be required to accept terms that restrict our ability to incur additional indebtedness and force us to maintain specified liquidity or other ratios. If we need additional capital and cannot raise it on acceptable terms, we may not be able to, among other things: • develop or enhance our application and services; • continue to expand our product development, sales and marketing organizations; 24 Table of Contents • acquire complementary technologies, products or businesses; • expand operations, in the United States or internationally; • hire, train and retain employees; or • respond to competitive pressures or unanticipated working capital requirements. Future sales of shares by existing stockholders could cause our stock price to decline. If our existing stockholders sell or otherwise dispose of, or indicate an intention to sell or dispose of, substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. As of December 31, 2008, we have a total of 60.9 million shares of our common stock outstanding. Although shares that are held by NetSuite Restricted Holdings LLC are subject to certain restrictions on disposition and a portion of the remaining shares are subject to our Insider Trading Compliance Policy during certain periods of each quarter, substantially all of the shares held by parties other than NetSuite Restricted Holdings LLC, representing 46.8% of our outstanding shares, are freely tradable, subject to our quarterly black-out periods that apply to shares held by our directors, officers, employees and consultants. If a significant number of these shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, amended and restated bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition deemed undesirable by our Board of Directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: • authorizing blank check preferred stock, which could be issued with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; • limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; • limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings and to take action by written consent in lieu of a meeting; • requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our Board of Directors; • controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board and stockholder meetings; • providing the Board of Directors with the express power to postpone previously scheduled annual meetings and to cancel previously scheduled special meetings; • limiting the determination of the number of directors on our board and the filling of vacancies or newly created seats on the board to our board of directors then in office; and • providing that directors may be removed by stockholders only for cause. These provisions, alone or together, could delay hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Under Section 203, our majority stockholder, which is beneficially owned 25 Table of Contents by Lawrence J. Ellison, and our current stockholders associated with members of Mr. Ellison’s family are not subject to the prohibition from engaging in such business combinations. Any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 