RISK FACTORS An investment in our shares or American Depository Shares, or ADSs, involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the specific risk factors described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report. The trading price of our shares and ADSs could decline as a result of any of these risks, and you may lose part or all of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business We are substantially dependent on the success of our lead product candidate, satraplatin. If we do not receive regulatory approval or achieve market acceptance for satraplatin, we will be unable to commercialize satraplatin successfully. We have expended significant time, money and effort developing satraplatin. In December 2005, we completed enrollment in a Phase 3 registrational trial, the SPARC trial, testing satraplatin as a second-line chemotherapy treatment of hormone refractory prostate cancer, or HRPC. We also began the rolling submission of a New Drug Application, or NDA, with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, with the goal to complete our NDA filing by the end of 2006. Before we or our partners can market and sell satraplatin, we will need to obtain necessary approvals from the FDA and similar regulatory agencies in Europe and elsewhere. Since satraplatin has received a fast track designation from the FDA as a potential second-line chemotherapy treatment for HRPC, it is eligible to be considered for an accelerated approval by the FDA. An accelerated approval could be advantageous since it may allow us to market and sell satraplatin at an earlier date than would be possible if we only seek and obtain full approval from the FDA. There is currently no procedural process in Europe equivalent to accelerated approval. As agreed with the FDA and the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, the primary endpoint for the SPARC trial is progression-free survival and the secondary endpoints are overall survival and time to pain progression. If we seek an accelerated approval for satraplatin from the FDA, the FDA will review the progression-free survival data together with available overall survival data in considering whether to grant such an approval, whereas for any marketing authorization application filed with the EMEA, the EMEA will review such data in determining whether to grant full approval. If satraplatin is approved by the FDA on an accelerated basis it may be subject to rigorous post-marketing compliance requirements, including the completion of Phase 4 or post-approval clinical trials. To obtain full approval from the FDA, we will need to submit final overall survival data to the agency for review or demonstrate that patients in the satraplatin arm of the trial derived a clear clinical benefit (such as delay in time to progression of pain) relative to the control arm. The independent data monitoring board, or DMB, established for the SPARC trial has set a date in late April 2006 to conduct a pre-planned interim efficacy analysis of progression-free survival data from the SPARC trial. Full progression-free survival data are expected in the second half of 2006. Full overall survival data are anticipated in the second half of 2007. Although we expect data from the SPARC trial in 2006 and 2007, the timing and ultimate outcome of the review of the SPARC trial by regulatory agencies remain uncertain. With regard to the interim analysis, there also can be no assurances regarding any recommendation by the DMB based upon the interim analysis or whether data from such interim analysis would be sufficient to form the basis of a submission for regulatory approval in the United States or Europe. In addition, although satraplatin is eligible for accelerated approval by the FDA, the FDA may not grant an accelerated approval if it concludes that the progression-free survival data and available overall survival data do not demonstrate that satraplatin provides a meaningful therapeutic benefit to patients over existing treatments or that the data are otherwise inadequate to support the granting of an accelerated approval due to weaknesses, inconsistencies or differences in the data with respect to data subsets or subpopulations in the treatment group. Although the SPARC trial is modeled on an earlier 50 patient study, conducted by others, of satraplatin as a first line chemotherapy, the results from the earlier study may not accurately predict the results of the SPARC 5 Table of Contents trial. If the trial fails to demonstrate that satraplatin is safe or effective in FDA’s risk/benefit evaluation, or the results of the trial are not statistically convincing, internally consistent or clinically meaningful or are otherwise deemed inadequate by the FDA, the EMEA or other regulatory agencies, full regulatory approval of satraplatin would be significantly delayed or may not be obtainable at all. Our strategy and timing for seeking regulatory approval of this drug may change depending on the results of our studies. In case of a delay, the overall costs of the program will increase and the time at which we can introduce the drug into the marketplace and begin to generate product revenues will also be delayed. Also, if regulatory approval is significantly delayed, competing therapies could be developed, which could decrease the market potential for satraplatin. Even if we ultimately receive regulatory approval for satraplatin, satraplatin may not gain market acceptance. Furthermore, the availability of less expensive and/or more effective alternative treatments may affect our ability to successfully commercialize satraplatin. Our other product candidates are in earlier stages of development. We may not successfully develop these product candidates. Even if their further development is successful, it will take several more years before we can file for regulatory approval of these product candidates. Therefore, if we fail to commercialize satraplatin, our ability to achieve profitability will be significantly delayed and our business prospects will be seriously limited, and you could lose all or part of your investment. The development and commercialization of our lead product candidate, satraplatin, partially depends on the efforts of a third party and, therefore, we do not fully control its success and commercial viability in all territories around the world. In December 2005, we entered into a co-development and license agreement for satraplatin with Pharmion GmbH, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pharmion Corporation. Under the terms of the agreement, Pharmion has exclusive commercialization rights (including the right to develop, market and distribute) for satraplatin for Europe, the Middle East, including Turkey, Australia and New Zealand and will lead regulatory and commercial activities relating to the promotion and sale of satraplatin in those territories. We have also formed a joint development committee with Pharmion to coordinate, evaluate and expedite global development activities for satraplatin in a variety of tumor types. Pharmion has announced that, if supported by the results of the SPARC trial, they plan to file for marketing approval of satraplatin in Europe in the first quarter of 2007 but we cannot assure you that this filing or Pharmion’s other development and/or commercial activities for satraplatin in its territories will be timely or ultimately successful. Our success with respect to the commercialization of satraplatin in Pharmion’s territories depends largely and its development for other tumor types depends partially on Pharmion’s efforts, over which we have limited control. If Pharmion is not successful or does not adequately fulfill its obligations, our business may be adversely affected. The primary patents covering satraplatin in the United States will expire in 2008 and 2010, and in 2009 in most other countries. If we and our licensor are unable to extend the protection of these patents beyond such dates, we may be subject to competition from third parties with products with the same active pharmaceutical ingredients as satraplatin. Even if our product candidates and technologies are covered by valid and enforceable patents, the patents will provide protection only for a limited amount of time. For example, the primary patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredient and anticancer use of satraplatin will expire in 2008 and 2010 in the United States, respectively, and in 2009 in most other countries. Thereafter, we will have no direct means to prevent third parties from making, selling, using or importing satraplatin in the United States, Europe or Japan. Instead, we and our licensor expect to rely upon the U.S. Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as the Hatch-Waxman Act, and comparable foreign legislation, to seek additional product exclusivity for satraplatin. While we believe that satraplatin will meet the Hatch-Waxman criteria for patent extension, delays in the 6 Table of Contents completion of our Phase 3 registrational trial or in obtaining regulatory approval may jeopardize our ability to obtain a timely patent extension or a patent extension may ultimately not be granted. The terms of the Hatch-Waxman Act, or similar foreign statutes, could be amended to our disadvantage. If we do not qualify or timely apply for such patent extension for satraplatin, the competition we will face upon expiration of the primary patents would increase significantly, reducing our potential revenues and harming our ability to achieve profitability. Under the provisions of the Hatch-Waxman Act, we and our licensor may also have to defend one or more of our patents, if challenged. Although we are currently not involved in any litigation concerning our intellectual property related to satraplatin and we are not currently aware of any threats or challenges with respect to our product candidates, the risk of a challenge increases as our product candidates progress toward commercialization. Information about the patents covering drug products in the United States is published by the FDA in a publicly available database, Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, also known as the Orange Book. A competitor (usually a generic drug company) seeking to market a proposed competing or generic version of our drug products in the United States may notify us that its competing drug product would not infringe one or more patents listed in the Orange Book covering our product, or may challenge the validity or enforceability of one or more of our listed patents covering our product. Once we are so notified we would have 45 days in which to file a lawsuit claiming patent infringement based on the competitor’s assertion about the characteristics of its proposed product. If we file such a lawsuit within 45 days, the FDA is required to delay, or stay, final approval of the competing product for up to thirty months. If a court determines that the patent would be infringed by the product proposed in the competitor’s drug application, the FDA will not approve the application until the patent expires. If, however, the court decides that the patent would not be infringed, is invalid or is unenforceable, the FDA may approve the competitor’s drug application when that decision occurs. The FDA may approve the application at the thirty-month date, even if the litigation is ongoing. If litigation is pending and the FDA approves the application at the end of the thirty-month period, the competitor may launch a competing product. Under the provisions of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, we are limited to only a single thirty-month stay per competing or generic drug application. We have a history of losses and our future profitability is uncertain. We have incurred losses in each year since our inception in 1997 because our research and development and general and administrative expenses exceeded our revenues. Our net loss for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 was €62.2 million, €39.9 million and €26.8 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of €229.5 million. To attain profitability, we will need to develop and bring products to market. We have never generated revenue from product sales in the market, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to do so in the future. We have expended significant funds in the initiation of additional clinical trials of satraplatin in other tumor types and as a combination therapy with other treatments. We expect to make substantial additional expenditures and incur substantial losses in the future as we continue our clinical trials of satraplatin, file for regulatory approvals and commercialize satraplatin, if and when we receive regulatory approvals. We also expect to make substantial expenditures to advance the development of 1D09C3, our monoclonal antibody, and to continue our other research activities. As our product candidates advance, we will continue to need resources for research and development activities, for regulatory approval filings and for commercialization of any approved drugs. If satraplatin fails to show positive results in our ongoing Phase 3 registrational trial, we do not receive regulatory approval for satraplatin, or if satraplatin does not achieve market acceptance even if approved, we will not become profitable in the foreseeable future. Furthermore, if our other product 7 Table of Contents candidates do not advance to clinical trials or fail in clinical trials, we may not be able to achieve or maintain profitability. If we fail to become or remain profitable, or if we are unable to fund our continuing expenses, we may be unable to continue our research and development programs, and you could lose all or part of your investment. As our relationship with ALTANA Pharma matures, we will increasingly depend on our collaboration with Pharmion for a significant portion of our revenues. If this collaboration terminates early or Pharmion does not meet all or a significant portion of its obligations, it would materially impact our revenues and harm our business. In the past three years, we have derived almost all of our revenues from our agreements with ALTANA Pharma AG, accounting for approximately 97% of our total revenue in 2005, 99% of our total revenue in 2004 and 94% of our total revenue in 2003. However, committed revenues from the collaboration and license agreement and the LeadCode™ agreement with ALTANA Pharma will continue to decrease substantially as the collaboration terms of those agreements approach their expiration in mid-2007. Under our co-development and license agreement for satraplatin with Pharmion, we received an upfront payment of $37.1 million, which includes an $18 million reimbursement for past satraplatin clinical development costs and a $19.1 million payment for the funding of certain ongoing clinical development activities. Furthermore, Pharmion has an additional obligation to fund $22.2 million for shared costs incurred in connection with global development activities. We are also entitled to receive up to $105.5 million upon the achievement of initial regulatory filing and approval milestones, up to $105 million for achievement of significant annual sales milestones in the Pharmion territories and royalties on sales of satraplatin by Pharmion in its territories at rates of 26% to 30% on net annual sales up to $500 million, and 34% on net annual sales over $500 million. These cost-sharing, milestone and royalty payments from Pharmion will represent a significant portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. If Pharmion is unable to successfully commercialize satraplatin in its territories or is otherwise unable to meet its contractual obligations, it would have a significant impact on our revenues and financial results. If our competitors develop and market products that are more effective, safer or more affordable than ours, or obtain marketing approval before we do, our commercial opportunities will be more limited. Competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries is intense and continues to increase, particularly in the area of cancer treatment. Our competitors include other biotechnology companies, pharmaceutical companies, as well as academic institutions and other research institutions engaged in the discovery and development of anticancer drugs and therapies. Many of our competitors have significantly greater research and development capabilities, greater experience in obtaining regulatory approvals, manufacturing and marketing, or greater financial and management resources than we have. Our competitors may succeed in developing products that are more effective, safer or more affordable than the ones we have under development or that render our product candidates or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. Moreover, competitors that are able to achieve patent protection, obtain regulatory approvals and commence commercial sales of their products before we do, and competitors that have already done so, may enjoy a significant competitive advantage. Satraplatin may face significant competition from other drugs that are either marketed or that may be developed for treating prostate cancer, as well as from other platinum-based compounds and other chemotherapy drugs. In the prostate cancer market, currently approved drugs include Emcyt® (Pfizer, Inc.), Novantrone® (OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc./Serono S.A.), Quadramet® (Schering AG/CYTOGEN 8 Table of Contents Corporation), Metastron® (GE Healthcare/Medi-Physics, Inc.) and Taxotere® (Sanofi-Aventis S.A.). Novantrone and Quadramet are injectable pharmaceuticals approved for use in treating bone pain in cancer patients, and Emcyt is an oral drug used to relieve symptoms of advanced prostate cancer. The most recently approved of these prostate cancer drugs, Taxotere, is an injectable pharmaceutical that is approved in the United States and Europe, in combination with prednisone (a commonly used synthetic steroid), for the treatment of patients with advanced prostate cancer. Taxotere has been shown to prolong survival of patients with HRPC. In addition to the drugs mentioned above, a Phase 2 clinical trial for Alimta® (Eli Lilly and Company) has recently been initiated, testing that drug as a second-line therapy for HRPC patients. Other examples of drugs in development for both advanced HRPC and earlier stages of prostate cancer, which may compete with satraplatin, are calcitriol (Novacea Inc.), Provenge® (Dendreon Corporation), ixabepilone (Bristol-Myers Squibb Company), Avastin™ (Genentech), Velcade® (Millenium Pharmaceuticals Inc./Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research & Development, LLC), and Nexavar® (Onyx Pharmaceuticals, Inc./Bayer Pharmaceuticals Corporation). There are currently three marketed platinum-based drugs in the United States and in Europe. These are cisplatin, carboplatin and oxaliplatin. All three agents are administered intravenously and are not approved for the treatment of prostate cancer. In addition to these, there are other platinum-based compounds approved and/or marketed in Asian markets such as lobaplatin (China), nedaplatin (Japan) and eptaplatin (South Korea). These drugs are not approved, however, for the treatment of prostate cancer. All three of these are also administered intravenously. Another platinum-based drug, which is not currently on the market, is picoplatin. Picoplatin is administered intravenously and has shown activity for HRPC in a Phase 2 clinical trial. NeoRx has initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial with the intravenous formulation of picoplatin for the treatment of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) that is resistant/refractory to cisplatin. If picoplatin does show efficacy in the clinic against disease that is resistant/refractory to cisplatin and if it is eventually approved for marketing, it could be a significant competitor to satraplatin. There are no reported clinical trials for an oral formulation of picoplatin. We are aware that other companies may be developing orally bioavailable platinum-based compounds. We are not aware, however, of any other orally bioavailable platinum-based compounds that are approved or are in Phase 3 clinical trials. If 1D09C3 is approved and commercialized, it will face significant competition. Currently marketed antibodies for the treatment of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma are Rituxan® (Biogen Idec, Inc./Genentech, Inc./Roche Holdings AG), Zevalin® (Biogen Idec, Inc./Schering AG), and Bexxar® (GlaxoSmithKline). Campath® (Berlex Laboratories) is approved for chronic lymphocytic leukemia. In addition, there are a number of other antibodies and other drugs in development for the treatment of lymphoma and leukemia. 1D09C3 could also be developed for the treatment of leukemias and melanoma. There is, and will continue to be, significant competition in these markets from both large molecule drugs (antibodies and other therapeutic proteins) and small molecule drugs. Even if our product candidates are approved for marketing, they may not be competitive with established drugs and therapies or may not be able to supplant established products and therapies in the disease settings that we target, thereby reducing the commercial value of our products. Our operating results may fluctuate considerably on a quarterly basis. These fluctuations could have an adverse effect on the price of our shares and ADSs. Our results of operations may fluctuate significantly in the future on a quarterly basis as a result of a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Although many companies may encounter this problem, it is particularly relevant to us because of our relatively small size, the fact that 9 Table of Contents we do not have any marketed products and the dynamics of the biotechnology industry in which we operate. Factors that could cause our results of operations to fluctuate include, among others: • timing of clinical trial expenses; • failure to achieve milestones under collaborative arrangements; • regulatory events; • new product introductions by us or our competitors; • variations in the demand for products we may introduce; • litigation involving patents, licenses or other intellectual property; and • product failures or product liability lawsuits. Any of the foregoing factors could cause us to fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause the trading price of our shares and ADSs to decline. Currency fluctuations may expose us to increased costs and revenue decreases. Our business is affected by fluctuations in foreign exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. A significant portion of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars but are reported in euro. Therefore currency fluctuations could cause our revenues to decline. Historically, the majority of our expenses were denominated in euro, but, on a going forward basis we expect that the majority of our expenses will be denominated in U.S. dollars. The majority of our cash and cash equivalents are denominated in euro. In addition, we conduct clinical trials in many different countries, which exposes us to cost increases if the euro declines in value compared to the currencies of those countries. We may need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our drug discovery, development and commercialization activities. We may need to raise additional capital to fund our operations and clinical trials, to continue our research and development activities and to commercialize future product candidates. We believe our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, and short-term investments on hand, as well as future payments we expect to receive from our collaborations with Pharmion and ALTANA Pharma and interest earned on our investments are sufficient to fund our anticipated operating requirements for at least the next 18 months. However, we may need to raise additional funds in the future. Our ability to raise additional funds will depend on financial, economic, market conditions and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. If necessary funds are not available to us on satisfactory terms, or at all, we may have to reduce expenditures for research and development and clinical trials, which could delay, reduce or eliminate our drug discovery, development and commercialization activities. Any delay in our development activities could delay our ability to commercialize a product. Our success depends on recruiting and retaining key personnel and, if we fail to do so, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. We depend on key members of our management team and scientific personnel. The loss of key managers or scientists, such as Marcel Rozencweig, our senior vice president for drug development, could delay the advancement of our research and development activities. We do not maintain any key man insurance. The implementation of our business strategy and our future success will also depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified 10 Table of Contents scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, regulatory approval, and sales and marketing. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions and other organizations. The process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful in the future, it may be more difficult for us to execute our business strategy. The members of the Management Board and of the management team identified in Item 6 entitled “Directors, Senior Management and Employees” comprise our key employees. The members of our Management Board have service agreements for a term of four years each, except for Dr. Seizinger who has a service agreement for a term of five years. The Germany-based member of the management team, David Bancroft, has a standard German employment contract of indefinite duration subject to termination in accordance with applicable law and upon reaching the age of 65. In the United States, only Gregory Hamm has an employment contract; the employment relationships of all other US-based members of our management team are terminable at will. We expect to expand our research, clinical development, and sales and marketing capabilities and, as a result, may encounter difficulties in managing our growth, which could disrupt our operations. As our research and development programs continue to advance, we expect that the number of our employees and the scope of our operations will grow. Our operations may also expand as the result of mergers and acquisitions, such as the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of Axxima Pharmaceuticals AG and the related hiring of 40 former employees of Axxima at the time of the acquisition in early 2005. To manage our anticipated future growth, we must continue to improve our managerial, operational and financial systems, expand our facilities and continue to recruit and train additional qualified personnel. Because we are a relatively small company, we may not be able to effectively manage the expansion of our operations or recruit and train additional qualified personnel. The physical expansion of our operations, including the establishment of a sales and marketing force, could increase our costs significantly and may divert our management and business development resources. Our future financial performance and our ability to commercialize our product candidates and to compete effectively will depend, in part, on our ability to manage future growth effectively. We depend on intellectual property licensed from third parties, and termination of any of these licenses could result in the loss of significant rights, which would harm our business. We hold licenses granted by Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc. for satraplatin, and by MorphoSys AG for our antibody product candidate, 1D09C3, and by other parties related to certain of our pre-clinical research projects. In addition, because the field of antibody therapeutics is characterized by a large amount of intellectual property, we also have a number of other licenses in addition to our license from MorphoSys related to the discovery or the production and commercialization of 1D09C3. We also hold licenses to third party patents important for our research technologies. Any termination of these licenses could result in the loss of significant rights and could harm our ability to commercialize our drug candidates or technologies. Our ownership of patents relating to some or all of our products will not reduce our reliance on these and other third party patents. Our agreement with Spectrum Pharmaceuticals is a sublicense under a license agreement between Spectrum Pharmaceuticals and Johnson Matthey Plc. We must therefore rely on Spectrum Pharmaceuticals to enforce its rights and Johnson Matthey’s obligations under their license agreement. If Spectrum Pharmaceuticals were to become insolvent or go into receivership, we would have limited access to assets related to satraplatin and limited ability to enforce directly any of Spectrum 11 Table of Contents Pharmaceuticals’ rights or Johnson Matthey’s obligations under such agreement. As a result, our development and commercialization of satraplatin could be significantly delayed or prevented. When we license intellectual property from third parties, those parties generally retain most or all of the obligations to maintain, as well as the rights to assert, that intellectual property. We generally have no rights to require our licensors to apply for new patents, except to the extent that we actually assist in the creation or development of patentable intellectual property. With respect to intellectual property that we license, we are generally also subject to all of the same risks with respect to its protection as we are for intellectual property that we own, which are described below. We rely on third parties to supply the active pharmaceutical ingredients in our product candidates. If they do not supply materials of satisfactory quality, in a timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We depend and will depend on supply, quality and other agreements for compounds that are essential for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, including satraplatin. In 2005, we entered into an exclusive commercial supply agreement with Johnson Matthey for additional supplies of the active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for satraplatin for future clinical trials, as well as for commercial amounts of satraplatin. Johnson Matthey has been our sole supplier of satraplatin to date. If supply of satraplatin from Johnson Matthey were to be interrupted for any reason, we estimate that identifying and contracting with an alternative supplier for satraplatin would cost approximately $1 million. Satraplatin manufacturing runs conducted to validate the process at commercial scale are scheduled for the fourth quarter of 2006. If Johnson Matthey is unable to successfully complete these validation runs, or if unforeseen problems arise during such runs, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of satraplatin may be delayed or there may be a shortage of supply, which could negatively affect our future product sales. To date, the sole supplier of 1D09C3, our monoclonal antibody product candidate, has been ICOS Corporation. We believe that the initial supplies manufactured by ICOS are sufficient for our current and planned Phase 1/2 clinical trials, however, we are in the process of selecting a vendor for late-stage clinical development (Phase 3) and commercial manufacture. Even though we have taken steps to assure the stability of our existing supplies, the material may degrade or otherwise become unacceptable for completion of our planned early-stage trials. Additionally, a strategic change in the current clinical development plan may require supplies beyond what is available from the existing inventory of material. Since supplies from the vendor being selected for late-stage development would not be available for at least 24 months, this could result in a delay in the clinical development of 1D09C3 until replacement or additional supplies become available. Our supply of the active ingredient for satraplatin and other product candidates may become limited, be interrupted or become restricted in certain geographic regions, and our suppliers may not perform their contractual obligations, for reasons including a shortage of raw materials or adverse regulatory actions. In this event, if we have not yet completed negotiations with alternate suppliers, we may not be able to obtain materials of acceptable quality from other manufacturers, or at prices, on terms or in quantities acceptable to us or in a timeframe consistent with project plans. Any inability to obtain alternate suppliers, including an inability to obtain approval of an alternate supplier from the FDA and other regulatory agencies, would delay or prevent the clinical development and commercialization of satraplatin and our other product candidates. We rely on third parties to manufacture the finished form of our product candidates. If they do not manufacture our product candidates in finished form of satisfactory quality, in a 12 Table of Contents timely manner, in sufficient quantities or at an acceptable cost, clinical development and commercialization of our product candidates could be delayed. We do not currently own or operate manufacturing or finishing facilities and rely and expect to continue to rely on third parties for the production of clinical and commercial quantities of the finished form of our product candidates. Our current and anticipated future dependence upon others for the manufacture of the finished form of our product candidates may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize any product candidates on a timely and competitive basis. We may not be able to maintain or renew our existing manufacturing arrangements on acceptable terms, if at all. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured at the scale required for preclinical studies or clinical trials. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to have it manufactured in commercial quantities. We have selected a commercial vendor for satraplatin finished product but have not yet completed the supply agreement. A secondary or backup commercial supplier for satraplatin finished product has not yet been selected. We are also currently negotiating a contract with a vendor for the packaging and labeling of satraplatin for commercial sale. At the present time, we have a single clinical supply manufacturer for 1D09C3; other potential manufacturers have been identified, but have not been evaluated. We rely on third parties to conduct clinical trials and assist with preclinical activities. If they do not perform as contractually required or expected, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our product candidates, and we rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories to conduct our clinical trials. In particular, with regard to our Phase 3 registrational trial for satraplatin, we have contracts with two contract research organizations, PharmaNet LLC and Cvitkovic Associés Consultants S.A. In the event that one of these contract research organizations were to terminate its agreement with us, we would shift the full responsibility for conducting the trial to the remaining contract research organization. In the event that both of our contract research organizations were to terminate their agreements with us and, as a result, we needed to transfer responsibilities to a new contract research organization, we believe we could engage one or more new contract research organizations with sufficient qualifications and international capabilities. Any of the foregoing events could, however, cause significant delays, disruptions and cost increases in our satraplatin trials. In addition, we rely on third parties to assist us with our preclinical development of product candidates. Our preclinical development activities or clinical trials may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, if: • these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines; • these third parties need to be replaced; or • the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for, or successfully commercialize our product candidates. We depend in part on the continued availability of outside scientific collaborators, including researchers at clinical research organizations and universities, in areas relevant to our research and product development. The competition for these relationships is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain such relationships on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, these 13 Table of Contents outside relationships may be terminated by the collaborator at any time. Our scientific collaborators are not employees of GPC Biotech. As a result, we have limited control, if any, over their activities and can expect that only limited amounts of their time will be dedicated to GPC Biotech activities. In addition, we may not control any intellectual property resulting from their activities. We may not be successful in building an internal marketing and sales organization and are, and may continue to be, dependent upon collaborative arrangements to complete the development and commercialization of satraplatin in the United States and certain other key territories and of our other product candidates. These collaborative arrangements may place the development and commercialization of our product candidates outside of our control, may require us to relinquish important rights or may otherwise be on terms unfavorable to us. We have limited experience in selling, marketing or distributing products and if we receive regulatory approval to commence commercial sales of satraplatin or any of our product candidates, we will either have to establish a sales and marketing organization with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capability, or engage one or more collaboration partners, such as a pharmaceutical or other healthcare company with an existing distribution network and direct sales and marketing organization such as the relationship we have established with Pharmion for Europe and certain other territories. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in the timely establishment of an internal sales and marketing organization to market and sell satraplatin in the United States and other territories not covered by our agreement with Pharmion and/or in finding appropriate partners on terms favorable to us. Our failure to do so may cause us to have to enter into such collaborative arrangements on terms not favorable to us, which could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. It could also delay or hinder our ability to develop and commercialize our product candidates and could increase our costs of development and commercialization. Dependence on collaborative arrangements will subject us to a number of additional risks, including: • we may not be able to control the amount or timing of resources that our collaborators may devote to the product candidates; • we may have to relinquish important rights, including intellectual property, marketing and distribution rights with respect to satraplatin or any of our other product candidates; • should a collaborator fail to develop or commercialize one of our product candidates, we may not receive any future milestone payments or royalties; • a collaborator could separately move forward with a competing product candidate developed either independently or in collaboration with others, including our competitors; • our collaborators may experience financial difficulties; • business combinations or significant changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may also adversely affect a collaborator’s willingness or ability to complete its obligations under any arrangement; and • collaborative research and development arrangements are often terminated or allowed to expire, which may delay the development and may increase the cost of developing our product candidates. Risks Related to Our Industry Early-stage drug discovery is subject to a high degree of failure. Although we devote significant resources to the discovery of new anticancer drugs and employ advanced technologies in our efforts to identify promising drug candidates to advance into preclinical studies, the risk that all or any one of our early-stage product candidates will fail is high. According to pharmaceutical industry statistics published in 2001 by the Pharmaceutical Research and 14 Table of Contents Manufacturers of America, only 1 in 1000 early stage drug discovery compounds is tested in clinical trials, and only 1 in 5 compounds that enters clinical trials receives FDA approval for marketing as a prescription drug. Moreover, the results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials may not accurately predict the results obtained in later-stage clinical trials required for regulatory approval. Because there is no prior experience in treating humans with early-stage product candidates, we cannot assure you that early-stage product candidates will prove in clinical testing to be effective and safe for use in humans. If our early-stage product candidates do not prove to be effective or safe in such tests, regulatory approval for such products would be delayed or may not be obtainable. Our product candidates must undergo rigorous clinical testing, the results of which are uncertain and could substantially delay or prevent us from bringing these products to market. Before we can obtain regulatory approval for a product candidate, we must undertake extensive clinical testing in humans to demonstrate the product’s safety and effectiveness. These clinical trials are expensive, time-consuming and often take years to complete. According to pharmaceutical industry statistics published in 2001 by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, an average drug candidate receiving approval for marketing as a prescription drug required 6.5 years of clinical testing prior to submission of a request to the FDA for marketing approval. In connection with clinical trials, we face risks that: • the product candidate may not be efficacious; • the product candidate may cause harmful side effects or patients may die; • the results may not confirm the results of earlier trials; or • the results may not meet the level of statistical significance or clinical benefit required by the FDA or other regulatory agencies. Any of these events could cause a trial to fail and may significantly delay or prevent us from obtaining regulatory approval for a product candidate. Difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials may increase costs and negatively affect the timing and outcome of our trials. Completion of clinical trials depends, among other things, on our ability to enroll a sufficient number of patients, which is a function of many factors, including: • the nature of the clinical protocol; • the therapeutic endpoints chosen for evaluation; • the eligibility criteria for the trial that is related to the protocol; • the size of the patient population required for analysis of the trial’s therapeutic endpoints; • our ability to recruit clinical trial investigators with the appropriate competencies and experience; • competition for patients by clinical trial programs for other treatments; • the proportion of patients leaving the study before reaching an endpoint; and • the availability of adequate insurance. We may experience difficulties in enrolling patients in our clinical trials, which could increase the costs or affect the timing or outcome of these trials. 15 Table of Contents We are subject to significant regulatory approval requirements, which could delay, prevent or limit our ability to market our product candidates. Our research and development activities, preclinical studies, clinical trials and the anticipated manufacturing and marketing of our product candidates are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and other regulatory agencies in the United States and by comparable authorities in Europe and elsewhere. We require the approval of the relevant regulatory authorities before we may commence commercial sales of our product candidates in a given market. The regulatory approval process is expensive and time-consuming, and the timing of receipt of regulatory approval is difficult to predict. Our product candidates could require a significantly longer time to gain regulatory approval than expected, or may never gain approval. A delay or denial of regulatory approval could delay our ability to generate product revenues and to achieve profitability. We have had an “End-of-Phase 2 Meeting” with the FDA and completed a Special Protocol Assessment under which the FDA has evaluated our registrational approach for satraplatin to assess whether it is adequate to meet scientific and regulatory requirements in the United States. As a result, the FDA confirmed its agreement with us that successful completion of the SPARC trial will form the primary basis for an efficacy claim, if executed flawlessly. In 2004, we also received a Scientific Advice Letter from the European Medicines Agency, or EMEA, relating to our registrational approach for satraplatin in the European Union and in February 2006 received Additional Scientific Advice pertaining to the content of the clinical data required for a submission based upon progression-free survival. The 2004 Scientific Advice Letter from the EMEA also identifies specific issues to be addressed in the clinical trial program and indicates that if the clinical data are not sufficiently convincing, then one Phase 3 trial will be insufficient to obtain approval. A successful “End-of-Phase 2 Meeting”, Special Protocol Assessment and a Scientific Advice Letter, however, do not guarantee that satraplatin will receive regulatory approval and, in any event, are subject to further developments in the medical and regulatory field. If the trial fails to demonstrate that satraplatin is safe or effective in FDA’s risk/benefit evaluation, or the results of the trial are not statistically convincing, internally consistent or clinically meaningful or are otherwise deemed inadequate by the FDA, the EMEA or other regulatory agencies, regulatory approval of satraplatin would be significantly delayed or may not be obtainable at all. Changes in the regulatory approval policy during the development period of any of our product candidates, changes in, or the enactment of, additional regulations or statutes, or changes in regulatory review practices for a submitted product application may cause a delay in obtaining approval or result in the rejection of an application for regulatory approval. Regulatory approval, if obtained, may be made subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market a product. These limitations could adversely affect our potential product revenues and our ability to achieve profitability. Regulatory approval may also require costly post-marketing follow-up studies. In addition, the labeling, packaging, adverse event reporting, storage, advertising, promotion and record-keeping related to the product will be subject to extensive ongoing regulatory requirements. Furthermore, for any marketed product, its manufacturer and its manufacturing facilities will be subject to continual review and periodic inspections by the FDA and other regulatory authorities. Failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements may, among other things, result in fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, product seizures, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate reimbursement levels relating to any products we may eventually sell. 16 Table of Contents Third-party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for any drug products we may eventually sell or exclusion of our drug products from reimbursement programs. The U.S. Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was signed into law in December 2003. This law has only recently been implemented and it is difficult to predict how it will impact the reimbursement of cancer therapies. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could adversely affect our potential product revenues and our ability to achieve profitability. Obtaining and maintaining reimbursement status is time consuming and costly. There is significant uncertainty as to the reimbursement status of newly approved medical products. Third-party payors may not reimburse for treatments with our drugs or they may delay making the decision to reimburse. Either of these would reduce the commercial value of the drug to us. In certain foreign markets, including much of Europe, the pricing, and especially the reimbursement under social security systems, of prescription pharmaceuticals is subject to government control. These governments or related bodies may deny reimbursement status or establish prices for products we may introduce at levels that are too low to enable us to realize an appropriate return on our investment in product development. We have no control over our key manufacturers’ and suppliers’ compliance with manufacturing regulations and their failure to comply could result in an interruption in the supply of our product candidates. The manufacturing process of pharmaceutical products is highly regulated. Our present or future manufacturers and suppliers may not be able to comply with FDA mandated current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, other FDA regulatory requirements or similar regulatory requirements outside the United States. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them (including fines, injunctions and civil penalties), the failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Any of these events would likely cause an interruption in the supply of our product candidate and cost increases. We are dependent on patents and proprietary technology, both our own and those licensed from others. If we or our licensors fail to adequately protect this intellectual property or if we do not have exclusivity for the marketing of our products, our ability to commercialize products could suffer. Our success depends in part on our ability, and the ability of our licensors, to obtain patent protection for technologies, products and processes, to preserve trade secrets, to defend and enforce rights against infringement and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties, in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. The validity and breadth of claims in medical or pharmaceutical technology and biotechnology or life science patents involve complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. For example, the value of our intellectual property rights depend on whether: • the inventors of our patents, or those we co-own or license were the first to make the inventions, or the first to file patent applications covering the intellectual property important for our business; 17 Table of Contents • we will develop, co-develop, acquire or license additional technologies or product candidates that are patentable; • the scope of any patent protection we, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors receive will exclude competitors or provide us with competitive advantages; • any of the patents that have been or may be issued to us, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors will provide protection for commercially viable products, or be held valid if subsequently challenged; • our licensors effectively prosecute, maintain, defend, extend and enforce the patents and patent applications we have licensed; • patent authorities will grant patents to our competitors or others that restrict our business based on applications they have filed or may file; • we will be able to detect, or, if detected, defend in an effective manner against infringement of any patent we, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors receive; • others claim rights in, or ownership of, the patents and other proprietary rights that we hold or license; • any patent that we, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors receive will be eligible under, and benefit from, any laws or regulations governing patent term extension; • the patents of others have an adverse effect on our business; or • others have developed or will develop similar technologies, product candidates, products or processes, duplicate any of those, or design around any patents that have been or may be issued to us, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors, particularly in relation to satraplatin and 1D09C3. We try to protect our proprietary position by generally filing U.S. and foreign patent applications related to those of our proprietary technologies, inventions and improvements that are important to our business, including those related to the development of our product candidates. Our ability to obtain patents is, however, highly uncertain because, to date, some legal principles remain unresolved and there has not been a consistent policy regarding the breadth or interpretation of claims allowed in patents in the United States and elsewhere. Moreover, the specific content of patents and patent applications that are necessary to support and interpret patent claims is highly uncertain due to the complex nature of the relevant legal, scientific and factual issues. The policies governing biotechnology patents outside the United States, especially in Germany, are even more uncertain. Changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Patents, if issued, may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented. United States patents and patent applications may also be subject to interference proceedings, and U.S. patents may be subject to reexamination proceedings. Foreign patents may be subject to opposition or comparable proceedings. Moreover, the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and FDA regulations and policies provide incentives to manufacturers to challenge patent validity or create modified, non-infringing versions of a drug in order to facilitate the approval of abbreviated new drug applications for generic substitutes. Such proceedings could result in either loss of the patent or denial of the patent application or loss or reduction in the scope of one or more of the claims of the patent or patent application. In addition, such interference, reexamination and opposition proceedings may be costly and time-consuming, and even if we were to prevail, would distract management. Although we are not currently facing any threats of these types of legal actions with respect to our product candidates, the risk of these legal actions increases as our product candidates progress toward commercialization and should they ultimately be approved and commercialized. 18 Table of Contents Any patents or patent applications that we own, co-own or license from others may not provide any protection against competitors. Our pending patent applications, those we may file in the future, or those we have licensed or may license from third parties, may not result in patents being issued. If issued, the patents may not provide us with proprietary protection or competitive advantages against competitors with similar technology, products or processes. Furthermore, others may independently develop similar technologies, products or processes or duplicate any of those that we have developed. We depend on third parties, such as patent-annuity payment companies, to pay the annuity, renewal and other fees required to maintain our patents and patent applications. Non- payment or delay in the payment of these fees is likely to result in irrevocable loss of patents or patent rights important to our business. We, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or our licensors may face difficulties in protecting intellectual property in countries other than the United States, which may diminish the value of our intellectual property in those countries. The laws of some foreign jurisdictions do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as in the United States and Europe, and many companies have encountered significant difficulties in protecting and defending such rights in foreign jurisdictions. If we, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or licensors encounter such difficulties in protecting, or are otherwise precluded from effectively protecting, in foreign jurisdictions the intellectual property rights important for our business, the value of these rights may be diminished and we may face additional competition from others in these jurisdictions. Many countries, including certain countries in Europe, have compulsory licensing laws under which a patent owner may be compelled to grant licenses to third parties (if, for example, the patent owner has failed to “work” the invention in that country, or the third party has patented improvements). In addition, many countries limit the enforceability of patents against government agencies or government contractors. In these countries, the patent owner may have limited remedies, which could materially diminish the value of the patent. Many of our and our collaborators research and development employees and/or consultants work in Germany or other European countries and are subject to German employment law or comparable rules in other European jurisdictions. Ideas, developments, discoveries and inventions made by such employees and consultants are subject to the provisions of the German Act on Employees’ Inventions (Gesetz über Arbeitnehmererfindungen) or similar European legislation, which regulates the ownership of, and compensation for, inventions made by employees. For such inventions, we face the risk that disputes can occur between employer and employee, ex-employee, or employers of our consultants pertaining to alleged non-adherence to the provisions of this act. Even if we, the co-owners of our intellectual property rights or licensors prevailed in any such dispute, such action could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in such dispute, in addition to paying substantial money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights. Claims that we infringe a third party’s intellectual property may give rise to burdensome litigation, result in potential liability for damages or stop our development and commercialization efforts. The pharmaceutical, biotechnology and other life sciences industries are characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent litigation based upon allegations of patent infringement. The owners or licensees of these and other patents may file one or more injunctive or infringement actions against us or our collaborators or licensees. Patent litigation can involve complex factual and legal questions, and its outcome is uncertain. Any claim relating to infringement of patents that is successfully asserted against us may result in us paying substantial money damages. Even if 19 Table of Contents we were to prevail, any litigation could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Furthermore, as a result of a patent infringement suit brought against us or our collaborators or licensees, we or our partners or licensees may be forced to stop or delay developing, manufacturing or selling products that are claimed to infringe a third party’s intellectual property unless that party grants us or our collaborators or licensees rights to use its intellectual property. In these cases, we or our collaborators or licensees may be required to obtain licenses to patents or proprietary rights of others in order to continue to commercialize our products. However, we or our collaborators or licensees may not be able to obtain any licenses required under any patents or proprietary rights of third parties on acceptable terms, or at all. Even if our collaborators, licensees or we were able to obtain rights to the third party’s intellectual property, these rights may be non-exclusive, thereby giving our competitors access to the same intellectual property. Ultimately, we or our collaborators or licensees may be unable to commercialize some of our products or may have to discontinue development or use of a technology or product candidate or cease some of our or their business operations as a result of patent infringement claims, which could severely harm our business. United States and foreign patents have been issued to third parties in the same fields as some of our technologies and product candidates and in fields that relate to the development and manufacture of our product candidates. We are aware of an issued patent covering a drug-protein interaction technology similar to our LeadCode™ technology that describes a “biotin” based drug-fusion molecule. Biotin is a naturally occurring molecule that binds to certain proteins enabling them to perform their function. There are also numerous patent filings claiming various genetic sequences, such as protein coding sequences and regulatory sequences that may be useful in our research programs and technologies, including our LeadCode™ technology. Additionally, a large number of patents have been issued with respect to methods of discovering, producing, and other aspects of therapeutic antibodies, and we are aware of issued patents held by third parties that relate to the production of recombinant antibodies, such as patents covering production in single cells by the independent expression of the two protein chains that make up the antibody, or more generally to the production of recombinant proteins. We are also aware that a third party has an issued patent relating to treating plasmacytoma/multiple myeloma, Hodgkin’s lymphoma (also known as Hodgkin’s disease), non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma and B cell leukemias by using monoclonal antibodies that specifically react with certain MHC class II molecules. We have not attempted to obtain licenses to any of these patents. If we decide to obtain licenses to these patents, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Should we not obtain one or more appropriate licenses and infringement claims be brought against us, we may be unable to convince a court that the allegedly infringed patent was invalid or otherwise unenforceable against our product candidates, research programs or technologies, and we may be prevented from practicing or marketing our product candidates, research programs or technologies in countries in which the patent is in force. While our product candidates are in clinical trials, and prior to commercialization, we believe our activities fall within the scope of the exemptions from patent infringement provided by 35 U.S.C. Section 271(e)(1) in the United States, which covers activities related to developing information for submission to the FDA. As our product candidates progress toward commercialization, the possibility of an infringement claim against us increases. Analogous provisions may not exist or may not exempt from patent infringement those clinical trials we conduct in other countries. Our competitive position also depends on trade secrets and other forms of non-patented intellectual property protection. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets, other companies may be able to compete more effectively against us, and our business could suffer. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. We try to protect this information by entering into confidentiality 20 Table of Contents agreements with parties that have access to it, such as our collaborators, licensees, employees and consultants. Any of these parties may breach these agreements and disclose our confidential information, or our competitors might learn of the information in some other way. If any trade secret, know-how or other technology not protected by a patent were to be disclosed to or independently developed by a competitor, our ability to generate revenues from our product candidates could be severely damaged. We may be required to pay substantial money damages resulting from claims that we or our employees have wrongfully used or disclosed alleged trade secrets of their former employers or other third parties. Many of our employees were previously employed at other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies, including our competitors or potential competitors, or at universities. We and our employees have received information from third parties that such third parties may believe was received or should be treated under an obligation of confidentiality. Although no claims against us are currently pending, we may in the future be subject to claims that these employees or we have inadvertently or otherwise used or disclosed trade secrets or other proprietary information of their former employers or other third parties. Litigation may be necessary to defend against these claims. Even if we are successful in defending against these claims, litigation could result in substantial costs and be a distraction to management. If we fail in defending such claims, in addition to paying substantial money damages, we may lose valuable intellectual property rights or personnel. A loss of key research personnel or their work product could delay or prevent our ability to commercialize one or more of our product candidates. We are subject to significant environmental, health and safety regulation, compliance with which can be expensive. We are subject to a variety of health, safety and environmental laws and regulations in the United States, Germany and other countries. These laws and regulations govern, among other things, waste water discharge, air emissions and waste management. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures and other costs in the ordinary course of our business in complying with these laws and regulations. Because we produce small amounts of experimental compounds and operate laboratory facilities, some risk of environmental liability is inherent in our business. Additionally, material costs of environmental compliance may arise in the future, increasing the overall costs of regulatory compliance. Our research activities require access to tissue samples and other biological material. If we lose access to these materials, our ability to discover and develop new product candidates could be impaired and we may incur substantial additional development costs. Our research activities require access to normal and diseased human tissue samples, other biological materials and related clinical or other information, which may be in limited supply. We may not be able to obtain or maintain access to these materials or information on commercially acceptable terms or at all. In addition, government regulations in the United States or Europe could result in restricted access to, or use of, human or other tissue samples or related information. If we lose access to sufficient numbers or sources of tissue samples, or if tighter restrictions are imposed on our use of the information generated from tissue samples, we may not be able to conduct our research activities as we have planned and may incur additional development costs. We may become exposed to costly and damaging product liability claims and may not be able to maintain sufficient product liability insurance to cover claims against us. Even in the absence of product liability lawsuits, unforeseen adverse side effects could harm sales of our products. 21 Table of Contents We face the risk of substantial liability for damages in the event a patient experiences adverse side effects during clinical trials or after any drugs we may develop are marketed. If any of our products were to cause adverse side effects, substantial losses in excess of our insurance coverage could result, which could negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our products are intended to be used to treat cancer cases, in which the patient and physician may conclude that the therapeutic benefits of the drug outweigh the potential risk of adverse side effects. Nevertheless, patients who suffer complications may attribute these complications to the drug and, as a consequence, bring product liability actions against us. Although the clinical trial process is designed to identify and assess potential side effects, it is always possible that a drug, even after approval, may exhibit unforeseen adverse side effects. Such side effects could affect the safety profile of the product. Even if these side effects are not so serious as to warrant withdrawing the product from use, they could reduce the product’s competitive advantage, especially if alternative products offer comparable therapeutic benefits with less severe potential side effects. We maintain limited product liability insurance for our product candidates when used in clinical trials. In several countries that have legally mandated amounts of coverage, we have purchased insurance to meet these requirements, which varies widely from €1.0 million per study in Hungary to €50.0 million in Germany. For other countries, such as the United States, where there is no such legal mandate, our insurance coverage is limited to $20 million per occurrence and in the aggregate. We expect to obtain more extensive product liability insurance for any products that we may eventually commercialize when it is economical and appropriate to do so, given the level of premiums and the risk and magnitude of potential liability. We may not be able to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all or the amount of insurance we have may not be adequate to cover potential claims or losses. Uninsured losses would adversely affect our profitability. We may not be able to conduct, or contract others to conduct, animal testing in the future, which could harm our research and development activities. Certain laws and regulations relating to drug development require us to test our product candidates on animals before initiating clinical trials involving humans. Animal testing activities have been the subject of controversy and adverse publicity. Animal rights groups and other organizations and individuals have attempted to stop animal testing activities by pressing for legislation and regulation in these areas and by disrupting these activities through protests and other means. To the extent the activities of these groups are successful, our research and development activities may be interrupted or delayed. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Company The price of our shares and ADSs is highly volatile and could decline significantly. The market price of our ordinary shares and our ADSs historically has been, and we expect will continue to be, subject to significant fluctuations over short periods of time. These fluctuations may be due to factors specific to us, to changes in analysts’ recommendations and earnings estimates, or to factors affecting the biopharmaceutical industry or the securities markets in general. For example, during the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the price per share of our ordinary shares on XETRA ranged from €7.99 to €11.90. During the period from January 1, 2005 to December 31, 2005, the price per ADS on the Nasdaq National Market, or Nasdaq, ranged from $10.56 to $15.11. We may experience a material decline in the market price of our shares or ADSs, regardless of our operating performance. 22 Table of Contents Price declines in our shares could result from a variety of factors, including many outside our control. These factors include: • adverse results or delays in our clinical trial programs, especially our current Phase 3 registrational trial for satraplatin; • FDA or other regulatory actions; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • announcements of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments or litigation concerning patents, licenses and other intellectual property rights; • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by securities analysts; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; • rumors relating to us or our competitors; • departures of key personnel; • changes in third party reimbursement policies; and • developments concerning current or future strategic alliances or acquisitions. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often extremely expensive and diverts management’s attention and the company’s resources. We have never paid dividends on our shares, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid dividends on our shares. Under German corporate law, we currently have no ability to pay dividends because of our past losses. We do not expect to have any annual net income for the foreseeable future. We currently plan to retain our future annual net income, if any, to fund our product development activities and internal growth. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our shares will be your sole potential source of gain for the foreseeable future. The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends will be affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar/euro exchange rate. Our ADSs trade in U.S. dollars. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar may affect the market price of the ADSs. This could adversely affect the price at which the ADSs trade on the U.S. securities markets. Additionally, any dividend we might pay in the future would be denominated in euro. A decline in the value of the euro against the U.S. dollar would reduce the dollar equivalent of any such dividend. Future sales of our shares in the public market could adversely affect the price of our shares and ADSs. The market price of our shares and ADSs could drop due to sales of a large number of our shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity securities in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. 23 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2005, members of our Supervisory Board and Management Board together held approximately 2.00% of our outstanding shares. Subject to Company policies and applicable law, we and members of our Supervisory Board and our Management Board are free to issue, offer, sell or otherwise dispose of shares. Rights as a shareholder in a German corporation may differ from rights customary for a shareholder in a U.S. corporation. We are organized as a stock corporation (Aktiengesellschaft) under the laws of Germany. Our shareholders should be aware that the rights of shareholders under German law differ in important respects from those of shareholders in a U.S. corporation. These differences are described in greater detail in Item 4 of this Annual Report under “German Corporate Law”. In addition, as a non-U.S. corporation, we are not subject to some of the provisions of U.S. securities laws that apply to U.S. issuers. We are not subject to the proxy rules promulgated under Section 14 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or Exchange Act. Additionally, short-swing profit and recovery provisions under Section 16 of the Exchange Act do not apply to us or the members of our Management Board and Supervisory Board. Furthermore, as a foreign private issuer, we are not required to file quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or current reports on Form 8-K with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In accordance with German law and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Frankfurt Stock Exchange, GPC Biotech’s historical practice, however, has been to publish its three-, six- and nine-month interim financial information. We expect to continue this practice, and to file this information with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States on Form 6-K. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Depending on various factors, we could be classified, for United States income tax purposes, as a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. federal income consequences for any U.S. holder of our shares or ADSs. We could be classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes in any taxable year in which, after taking into account the income and assets of our subsidiary, either: • at least 75% of our gross income is passive income, or • at least 50% of the average value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held to produce passive income. If we are treated as a PFIC for any taxable year, U.S. investors in our shares or ADSs may be able to make an election to “mark-to-market” our shares or ADSs each taxable year and recognize ordinary income pursuant to such election based upon increases in the value of our shares or ADSs. Absent an election described above, a U.S. investor of a PFIC would be subject to adverse tax consequences, including: • U.S. federal income tax at ordinary income tax rates in respect of gain derived from a disposition of our shares, as well as some distributions by us; • interest charges on taxes allocable to prior periods; and • no increase in the tax basis for our shares or ADSs to fair market value upon the death of an individual shareholder. We currently believe that we will not be treated as a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2005. The determination of whether we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on factors such as the composition of our income and assets from time to time as well as our share price. Therefore, it is possible that we could be classified as a PFIC for any particular year. 24 Table of Contents 