Item 1A. Risk Factors We have limited revenue and a history of net losses. We had net losses of $22,643,000, $20,365,000 and $14,611,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. We had revenues of $53,000, $588,000 and $536,000 for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2007 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of $141,113,000. We are using the proceeds from our June 2007 public offering and any proceeds we receive upon exercise of outstanding warrants and options to maintain our public company requirements and evaluate strategic alternatives. We will continue to incur losses. Our financial results and condition, and any strategic transactions we may enter into, are subject to a number of economic risks due to global adverse business, economic and market conditions. As widely reported, financial markets in the United States, Europe and Asia have been experiencing extreme disruption in recent months, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments have taken unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions that include severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. These economic developments affect businesses in a number of adverse ways. The current tightening of credit in financial markets adversely affects the ability of customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders for products and services as well as impact the ability of customers to make payments. Similarly, this tightening of credit may adversely affect supplier bases and increase the potential for suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Global business is also adversely affected by decreases in the general level of economic activity, such as decreases in business and consumer spending and construction activity. Any of these factors could adversely affect any strategic transaction we may enter into. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the current disruption in financial markets and adverse economic conditions in the United States and other countries. We are currently considering various strategic alternatives and may not be able to complete the one we decide to pursue, whose failure could result in increased expenses and/or a delay in finally completing the selected strategy, or pursuing and completing another alternative. On May 20, 2008, the Board of Directors voted to curtail research and development activities and ongoing operations while analyzing alternatives to protect the value to the stockholders. Alternatives could include restarting the company, merging with or acquiring another company, increasing operations in another structure, or liquidation. We may select a strategic alternative that we may not be able to complete for various reasons, including a decision of our principal stockholders not to approve such alternative; our inability to obtain regulatory approval; the inability to secure adequate financing; or possible litigation involving the selected alternative. The inability to complete a selected alternative may adversely affect us or limit other strategic alternatives still available to us, including by adversely 7 Table of Contents affecting our financial results or our ability to liquidate, or deterring other companies from entering into a merger or acquisition with us. We may need additional financing in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we need additional financing but do not obtain it when we need it or on terms that are favorable to us, our business would be adversely and materially affected. We may need additional financing in the future to finance any strategic transaction. The timing and amount of such additional financing would depend on many factors, including the strategy adopted by the company; the costs of restarting sales and marketing activities; the cost of hiring and training qualified personnel; the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other patent-related costs; the costs of defending any patent or trademark infringement actions brought against us by third parties; and the cost of being a public company because of the disclosure, reporting, financial accounting and other requirements that apply to public companies. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it, or on terms that are favorable to us or at all. If we cannot obtain adequate financing on a timely basis or under terms that are favorable to us, we may be forced to delay or limit aspects of our then-existing business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to seek funds from sources that will place limits on our operations and management or that require rights that are superior to those possessed by the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the new equity securities may dilute the average per share price or ownership interests of our stockholders and the rights of the holders of the new equity securities may be more favorable than those of the current holders of our common stock. Because our FPOA chips are highly complex, they may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in commercial applications, which would result in increased liability and expense. We are currently selling our FPOA chips to our two principal customersZenith/LG and Adaptive Microwave. Our FPOA chips are highly complex and may contain defects, errors or failures. After the initial fabrication and packaging of an FPOA chip, we tested their functionality and performance internally. However, because our chips are programmable in the field, they can be fully tested only when deployed and functioning in commercial applications. Consequently, our customers may discover errors after our chips have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our FPOA chips could result in the cancellation of orders, product returns, repairs or replacements, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers or our customers' end users and other costs and losses to us or to our customers or end users, which would adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced defects in the past and may experience defects in the future. Timing-related defects in our original FPOA design caused a low yield of chips that could operate at a clock speed of one GHz. As a result, we had to manufacture additional chips and sort through the available supply of chips to find those that worked properly, which increased our costs and delayed the marketing of our chips. Because the trend in the semiconductor industry is moving toward even more complex products, this risk probably will intensify over time and may result in increased liability and expenses. Our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, and it may not be adequately protected. Our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of United States patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret law, employee non-disclosure agreements and work-for-hire and non-disclosure agreements with independent contractors to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. As of the date of this filing, we have been granted two United States patents: a patent granted in November 8 Table of Contents 2004 expiring in 2024 and a patent granted in February 2006 expiring in 2026. We have six patent applications on file with the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO. However, filing a patent application does not mean we will be issued a patent or that any patent eventually issued will be as broad as requested in the patent application or sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, there are a number of factors that could cause our patents to become invalid or unenforceable or that could cause our patent applications to not be granted, including known or unknown prior art, deficiencies in the patent application or the lack of originality of the technology. Also, any common law protection of our intellectual property could be compromised by the fact that we do not have assignment of inventions agreements with some of our former employees. We have registered our trademarks MathStar, FPOA and ARRIX with the USPTO. We do not have any trademarks registered outside the United States, nor do we have any trademark applications pending outside the United States. Even though our trademarks are registered with the USPTO, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible our competitors or others will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. We currently hold one domain name relating to our business, MathStar.com. We may be unable to acquire other relevant domain names in the United States and in other countries where we conduct or may conduct business. Our patents and patent applications and copyrights, trademarks, trade secret law, employee non-disclosure agreements and work-for-hire and non-disclosure agreements with independent contractors may not provide meaningful protection from our competitors because the status of any patent and other intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents and other intellectual property rights or develop new patentable technologies that displace our existing technology. In addition, and despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties, including our employees, former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or technologies without our authorization. If other companies obtain our proprietary information or technologies or develop substantially equivalent information or technologies, they may develop products that successfully compete against our FPOA chips and FPOA technology. Our technology has no patent protection outside of the United States because we have no non-United States patents or patent applications, and we do not currently plan on applying for non-United States patents. This could result in the appropriation of our technology outside of the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property. We have no patents outside of the United States, and we do not currently plan on applying for non-United States patents. Thus, our technology does not have patent protection outside of the United States. This could result in the appropriation of our technology outside of the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property. The laws of certain countries in which our FPOA chips are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our technology and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Policing the unauthorized use of our technology is difficult and may result in significant expense to us. Even if we spend significant resources and efforts to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent the appropriation of our technology. The appropriation and use by others of our proprietary intellectual property could materially harm our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property. 9 Table of Contents We are at risk of intellectual property infringement claims. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we prosecute infringement claims against third parties who are infringing or illegally using our intellectual property, or if we defend ourselves or our licensees against any similar claims brought by others, it could be costly and time-consuming to us and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from business issues, regardless of the claims' merit. Due to the anticipated costs involved in filing and conducting an infringement action to protect our technology, we may decide not to file such an action, which could result in another party misappropriating our intellectual property. We could also incur substantial costs in interference proceedings declared by the USPTO in connection with any patents or patent applications or opposition proceedings declared by the USPTO in connection with our trademarks. Although we have filed patent applications and have been granted two patents in the United States, we have not conducted, and are not required to conduct, any search or study regarding the existence of any technology on which our technology may infringe before filing a patent application. We are required to investigate any patented technology of which we have knowledge on which our technology may infringe. We have no knowledge of any such patented technology. However, a patent application is confidential until 18 months after its filing date and, for this reason, and due to the complexities of such a search, a search may not discern technology subject to patent applications on which our technology may infringe. A third party claiming infringement may be able to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief against us and the use of our technology by us or others, which could prevent or inhibit the sale of our FPOA chips or FPOA technology. If another party bringing a claim of infringement against us prevailed, we or any licensees or purchasers of our FPOA technology may be required to obtain one or more licenses from or pay royalties to third parties, which could entail significant expense. There can be no assurance that we or such licensees or purchasers would be able to obtain from a third party any required license of technology at a reasonable cost or at all, or be able to design commercially acceptable non-infringing alternatives. Our failure or the failure of our licensees or purchasers to obtain such a license or develop such alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell or otherwise capitalize on our intellectual property. As of December 31, 2008, we had $828,000 invested in auction preferred securities (APS). Since mid-February 2008, the auctions for these APS have been failing, which adversely affects their liquidity. If we must record impairment charges on the recorded value of these APS, recognize additional unrealized losses, or recognize a loss on the disposition of our APS, our financial condition would be adversely affected. In January 2008, we purchased $2.6 million of investments comprised of APS. All of our APS are AAA rated by one of the major credit rating agencies. Since mid-February 2008, we have experienced failed auctions for our entire APS portfolio, resulting in our inability to sell these securities. A failed auction results in a lack of liquidity in the securities but does not signify a default by the issuer. Upon an auction failure, the interest rates on the APS do not reset at a market rate but instead reset based on a formula contained in the APS, which generally is higher than the current market rate. The issuer of the APS redeemed $1.85 million of the securities on May 27, 2008 at face value and is actively putting a plan in place to redeem the remainder. Our APS were purchased through UBS AG. On August 8, 2008, UBS announced that it reached a settlement with the New York Attorney General, the Massachusetts Securities Division, the SEC and other regulatory agencies to restore liquidity to holders of APS. On November 14, 2008, we entered into an agreement with UBS under which UBS and /or the issuer agreed to redeem the APS by July 2, 2012. We currently do not need the funds invested in the APS to meet outstanding obligations or short-term operating requirements. However, if the credit worthiness of the issuer deteriorates, UBS does not or is unable to restore liquidity, or we no longer 10 Table of Contents have the ability to hold these securities, it would adversely affect our financial condition and our ability to complete any desired strategic transaction. The success of any strategic transaction we enter into would depend on the services and skills of our existing management. The success of any strategic transaction we enter into would depend to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management and members of our board of directors. We do not have employment or noncompetition agreements with any members of management, although we have non-disclosure agreements with them. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers, key employees, members of our board of directors or contractors could impair our ability to successfully identify a strategic alternative or enter into a strategic transaction. Our board of directors may issue and fix the terms of shares of our preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock or any change in control of MathStar. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder action, to establish various classes or series of preferred stock from time to time and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of any unissued classes or series including, among other matters, any dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preferences, sinking fund terms, the number of shares constituting any such series and the description thereof, and to issue any such shares. Our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of a class or series of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the common stock and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. We will not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings or cash flow to finance our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate the payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends in the past, and we may be restricted or prevented from paying cash dividends by loan covenants with any lenders or cash dividends on our common stock by the terms of any preferred stock that we issue. Our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC, which adversely affects its liquidity. In the last quarter of 2008, our common stock was delisted from The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC, and it is currently quoted on the Pink OTC Markets. The delisting of our stock has had a negative effect on our liquidity, and it may impair our ability to raise capital in the future. Our common stock is thinly traded, and our stock price may be volatile, which means that purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price may be volatile. The stock market in general has experienced extreme volatility. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; litigation; the condition of our balance sheet; the departure of key personnel; future sales of our common stock; changes in accounting principles; our failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures; investors' perceptions of us; or general economic, industry and other market conditions. 11 Table of Contents Our common stock is subject to the "penny stock" rules of the SEC, which could restrict trading in our common stock and thus its liquidity. We are subject to the SEC's "penny stock" rules because our common stock sells below $5.00 per share. Penny stocks generally are equity securities with a price of less than $5.00. The penny stock rules require broker-dealers to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer must also provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, information regarding the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson, and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to completing the transaction involving penny stocks and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in penny stocks, the broker and/or dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. The penny stock rules are burdensome and may reduce purchases of any offerings and reduce the trading activity for our common stock. As long as our common stock is subject to the penny stock rules, the holders of our shares may find it more difficult to sell such shares. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders may sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, may delay or prevent transactions that are favorable to our stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of the DGCL regarding "business combinations," as that term is defined in the DGCL. Our directors' ability to issue and fix the terms of our undesignated preferred stock without stockholder approval could be used as an anti-takeover measure. We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The anti-takeover provisions of the DGCL, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal, and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. We may be at risk of shareholder litigation. Since May 2008, our Board of Directors has been evaluating strategic alternatives for MathStar, and the Board has considered various proposals from third parties regarding transactions involving MathStar. To date, MathStar has not entered into any transaction. Some MathStar shareholders have informed our Board that they believe MathStar should enter into particular transactions, including mergers and liquidation, and that they disagree with the Board's actions to date. Although no lawsuit has been served on MathStar or filed, and the Board believes there is no basis for such a lawsuit, there is always the possibility that such a lawsuit could be commenced. Our defense of any such lawsuit, regardless of the claims' merit, would divert the attention of management and could be costly and time-consuming. 12 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 