Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors as well as other information in this report before investing in any of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to Our Business We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We have had a history of losses. We had a net loss of $14.8 million in 2008. We also had net losses of $5.4 million and $1.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. There is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. The current turmoil in the global economy could adversely impact our operations and financial results. Over the past several months, global economic conditions have continued to deteriorate. For example, credit has become severely restricted. This restriction in credit could materially impact our operations and financial results. Our customers often rely on credit markets to finance the build-out of their networks and systems. With the current restriction in credit markets, capital may not be available to our customers or may only be available at unfavorable terms. Without appropriate capital, our customers may have difficulty funding their on-going operations and may reduce their orders for our products. This could significantly impact our operations and financial results. Additionally, our vendors may rely on credit markets to finance their operations. With the current restriction in credit markets, capital may not be available to our vendors or may only be available at unfavorable terms. Without appropriate capital, our vendors may have difficulty funding their on-going operations and may not be able to fulfill requirements for their products. This could significantly impact our operations and financial results through a reduction in our revenues. We depend on a small number of key customers in the telecommunications industry for a significant portion of our revenues. If we lose any of our major customers, particularly Nokia Siemens Networks, or there is any material reduction in orders for our products from any of these customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a relatively small number of telecom customers for a significant part of our revenues. The loss of any of our major customers, particularly Nokia Siemens Networks, or any material reduction in orders from any such customers, would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Revenues from Nokia Siemens Networks (including Nokia and Siemens AG revenues for 2007 prior to their merger) accounted for 55% and 60% our total revenues in 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, global economic conditions, overall growth in our target markets, the ability of our customers to obtain adequate capital, U.S. export law changes, changes in customer order patterns, customer consolidation, availability of components from our suppliers, the gain or loss of a significant customer, changes in our product mix and market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. These factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. 15 Table of Contents We depend on the telecommunications industry for a substantial portion of our revenues. As this industry is negatively impacted by the global economic downturn, our revenues could decrease and our profitability could suffer. In addition, consolidation in this industry could result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products, adversely impacting our results of operations. We depend, and expect to remain dependent, on the telecommunications industry for a substantial portion of our revenues. Revenues from all of our telecom OEM customers comprised 66% of our total revenues in 2008 and 79% of our total revenues in 2007. The current global economic downturn and credit crisis has impacted the telecommunications industry. We anticipate decreased revenues from our telecommunication related customers in 2009 and therefore we undertook certain restructuring activities to reduce expenses. If the current downturn in the telecommunications industry persists, our revenues will continue to suffer and we may be forced to make provisions for excess inventory, accounts receivable and abandoned or obsolete equipment and further reduce our operating expenses through additional restructuring activities. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to reduce operating expenses to a level commensurate with the lower revenues resulting from such a prolonged industry downturn. The telecommunications industry has undergone significant consolidation in the past few years and we expect that consolidation to continue. The acquisition of one of our major customers in this market, or one of the communications service providers supplied by one of our major customers, could result in delays or cancellations of orders of our products and, accordingly, delays or reductions in our anticipated revenues and reduced profitability or increased net losses. In particular, during April 2007, Nokia and Siemens merged their telecommunication network businesses. Implementing our acquisition strategy could result in dilution to our stockholders and operating difficulties leading to a decline in revenues and operating profit. One of our strategies is to grow through acquisitions. To that end, we have completed six acquisitions since our initial public offering in October 2000. We intend to continue to pursue acquisitions in our markets that we believe will be beneficial to our business. The process of investigating, acquiring and integrating any business into our business and operations is risky and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. The areas in which we may face difficulties include: • diversion of our management from the operation of our core business; • assimilating the acquired operations and personnel; • integrating information technology and reporting systems; • retention of key personnel; • retention of acquired customers; and • implementation of controls, procedures and policies in the acquired business. In addition to the factors set forth above, we may encounter other unforeseen problems with acquisitions that we may not be able to overcome. Future acquisitions may require us to issue shares of our stock or other securities that dilute our other stockholders, expend cash, incur debt, assume liabilities, including contingent or unknown liabilities, or create additional expenses related to write-offs or amortization of intangible assets with estimated useful lives, any of which could materially adversely affect our operating results. Our strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate into new non-telecommunication markets, such as defense electronics, homeland security and other systems, and we may be unable to do so. Historically, a large majority of our revenues have been attributable to sales of our RF modules to telecom OEMs such as Nokia Siemens Networks. Part of our growth strategy is to design and sell high-frequency RF modules for and to OEMs and systems integrators in new non-telecommunication markets, particularly defense electronics, homeland security and other systems. While growing of significance to our business, to date, only a modest percentage of our revenues have been attributable to sales of RF modules to these alternate markets. We are 16 Table of Contents designing and selling products for the emerging homeland security market. The potential size of this market is unclear and we cannot predict how the market will evolve. If increased demand for high-frequency RF modules in non-telecommunication markets does not materialize, or if we fail to secure new design wins in these markets or if we are unable to design readily manufacturable products for these new markets, our growth and revenues could be adversely impacted, thereby decreasing our profitability or increasing our net losses. We rely on the semiconductor foundry operations of third-party semiconductor foundries to manufacture the semiconductors contained in our products. The loss of our relationship with any of these foundries without adequate notice would adversely impact our ability to fill customer orders and could damage our customer relationships. We utilize both industry standard semiconductor components and our own custom-designed semiconductor devices. However, we do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility, or foundry, and rely on a limited number of third parties to produce our custom-designed components. If any of our semiconductor suppliers is unable to deliver semiconductors to us in a timely fashion, the resulting delay could severely impact our ability to fulfill customer orders and could damage our relationships with our customers. In addition, the loss of our relationship with or our access to any of the semiconductor foundries we currently use for the fabrication of custom designed components and any resulting delay or reduction in the supply of semiconductor devices to us, would severely impact our ability to fulfill customer orders and could damage our relationships with our customers. We may not be successful in forming alternative supply arrangements that provide us with a sufficient supply of gallium arsenide devices. Gallium arsenide devices are used in a substantial portion of the products we manufacture. Because there are a limited number of semiconductor foundries that use the particular process technologies we select for our products and that have sufficient capacity to meet our needs, using alternative or additional semiconductor foundries would require an extensive qualification process that could prevent or delay product shipments and revenues. We estimate that it may take up to six months to shift production of a given semiconductor circuit design to a new foundry. Because of the shortages of some components and our dependence on single source suppliers and custom components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components of sufficient quality in a timely fashion, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. Many of our products are customized and must be qualified with our customers. This means that we cannot change components in our products easily without the risks and delays associated with requalification. Accordingly, while a number of the components we use in our products are made by multiple suppliers, we may effectively have single source suppliers for some of these components. In addition, we currently purchase a number of components, some from single source suppliers, including, but not limited to: • semiconductor devices; • application-specific monolithic microwave integrated circuits; • voltage-controlled oscillators; • voltage regulators; • unusual or low usage components; • surface mount components compliant with the EU’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, Directive; • high-frequency circuit boards; • custom connectors; and • yttrium iron garnet components. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and lower our margins. 17 Table of Contents In the past, we suffered from shortages of and quality issues with various components. These shortages and quality issues adversely impacted our product revenues and could reappear in the future. Our single source suppliers could enter into exclusive agreements with or be acquired by one of our competitors, increase their prices, refuse to sell their products to us, discontinue products or go out of business. Even to the extent alternative suppliers are available to us and their components are qualified with our customers on a timely basis, identifying them and entering into arrangements with them may be difficult and time consuming, and they may not meet our quality standards. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Although we have not experienced any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Although our portfolio has no direct investments in auction rate or sub-prime mortgage securities, our overall investment portfolio is currently and may in the future be concentrated in cash equivalents including money market funds. If any of the issuers of the securities we hold default on their obligations, or their credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment. Competitive conditions often require us to reduce prices and, as a result, we need to reduce our costs in order to be profitable. Over the past year, we have reduced many of our prices of telecom products by 10% to 15% in order to remain competitive and we expect market conditions will cause us to reduce our prices in the future. In order to reduce our per-unit cost of product revenues, we must continue to design and re-design products to require lower cost materials, improve our manufacturing efficiencies and successfully move production to lower-cost, offshore locations. The combined effects of these actions may be insufficient to achieve the cost reductions needed to maintain or increase our gross margins or achieve profitability. We rely heavily on a Thailand facility of HANA Microelectronics Co., Ltd., a contract manufacturer, to produce our RF modules. If HANA is unable to produce these modules in sufficient quantities or with adequate quality, or it chooses to terminate our manufacturing arrangement, we will be forced to find an alternative manufacturer and may not be able to fulfill our production commitments to our customers, which could cause sales to be delayed or lost and could harm our reputation. We outsource the assembly and testing of most of our telecommunication related products to a Thailand facility of HANA Microelectronics Co., Ltd., or HANA, a contract manufacturer. We plan to continue this arrangement as a key element of our operating strategy. If HANA does not provide us with high quality products and services in a timely manner, terminates its relationship with us, or is unable to produce our products due to financial difficulties or political instability we may be unable to obtain a satisfactory replacement to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. In the event of an interruption of supply from HANA, sales of our products could be delayed or lost and our reputation could be harmed. Our latest manufacturing agreement with HANA expires in October 2009, but will renew automatically for successive one-year periods unless either party notifies the other of its desire to terminate the agreement at least one year prior to the expiration of the term. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 365 days prior written notice to the other party, and either party may terminate the agreement if the non-terminating party is in material breach and does not cure the breach within 30 days after notice of the breach is given by the terminating party. There can be no guarantee that HANA will not seek to terminate its agreement with us. Our products may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet our customers’ performance criteria, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. We have experienced manufacturing quality problems with our products in the past and may have similar problems in the future. As a result of these problems, we have replaced components in some products, or replaced the product, in accordance with our product warranties. Our product warranties typically last twelve to thirty months. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products under our product warranties, incurring significant expenses as a result. Further, our customers may discover latent defects in our products that were not apparent when the warranty period expired. 18 Table of Contents These defects may cause us to incur significant repair or replacement expenses beyond the normal warranty period. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. We depend on our key personnel. Skilled personnel in our industry can be in short supply. If we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products would be harmed. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled managerial, research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. Skilled personnel in our industry can be in short supply. As a result, our employees are highly sought after by competing companies and our ability to attract skilled personnel is limited. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be required to grant large stock option or other stock-based incentive awards, which may harm our operating results or be dilutive to our other stockholders. We may also be required to pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. Due to our relatively small number of employees and the limited number of individuals with the skill set needed to work in our industry, we are particularly dependent on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, these persons would be very difficult to replace, and our ability to conduct our business successfully could be seriously harmed. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies. The length of our sales cycle requires us to invest substantial financial and technical resources in a potential sale before we know whether the sale will occur. There is no guarantee that the sale will ever occur and if we are unsuccessful in designing a high-frequency RF module for a particular generation of a customer’s products, we may need to wait until the next generation of that product to sell our products to that particular customer. Our products are highly technical and the sales cycle can be long. Our sales efforts involve a collaborative and iterative process with our customers to determine their specific requirements either in order to design an appropriate solution or to transfer the product efficiently to our offshore contract manufacturer. Depending on the product and market, the sales cycle can take anywhere from 2 to 24 months, and we incur significant expenses as part of this process without any assurance of resulting revenues. We generate revenues only if our product is selected for incorporation into a customer’s system and that system is accepted in the marketplace. If our product is not selected, or the customer’s development program is discontinued, we generally will not have an opportunity to sell our product to that customer until that customer develops a new generation of its system. There is no guarantee that our product will be selected for that new generation system. In the past, we have had difficulty meeting some of our major customers’ stated volume and cost requirements. The length of our product development and sales cycle makes us particularly vulnerable to the loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction in orders by a customer because we may be unable to quickly replace the lost or reduced sales. We may not be able to design our products as quickly as our customers require, which could cause us to lose sales and may harm our reputation. Existing and potential customers typically demand that we design products for them under difficult time constraints. In the current market environment, the need to respond quickly is particularly important. If we are unable to commit the necessary resources to complete a project for a potential customer within the requested timeframe, we may lose a potential sale. Our ability to design products within the time constraints demanded by a customer will depend on the number of product design professionals who are available to focus on that customer’s project and the availability of professionals with the requisite level of expertise is limited. We have, in the past, expended significant resources on research and design efforts on potential customer products, that did not result in additional revenue. 19 Table of Contents Each of our telecommunication network products is designed for a specific range of frequencies. Because different national governments license different portions of the frequency spectrum for the telecommunication network market, and because communications service providers license specific frequencies as they become available, in order to remain competitive we must adapt our products rapidly to use a wide range of different frequencies. This may require the design of products at a number of different frequencies simultaneously. This design process can be difficult and time consuming, could increase our costs and could cause delays in the delivery of products to our customers, which may harm our reputation and delay or cause us to lose revenues. Our customers often have specific requirements that can be at the forefront of technological development and therefore difficult and expensive to develop. If we are not able to devote sufficient resources to these products, or we experience development difficulties or delays, we could lose sales and damage our reputation with those customers. We may not be able to manufacture and deliver our products as quickly as our customers require, which could cause us to lose sales and would harm our reputation. We may not be able to manufacture products and deliver them to our customers at the times and in the volumes they require. Manufacturing delays and interruptions can occur for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • the failure of a supplier to deliver needed components on a timely basis or with acceptable quality; • lack of sufficient capacity; • poor manufacturing yields; • equipment failures; • manufacturing personnel shortages; • labor disputes; • transportation disruptions; • changes in import/export regulations; • infrastructure failures at the facilities of our offshore contract manufacturer; • natural disasters; • acts of terrorism; and • political instability. Manufacturing our products is complex. The yield, or percentage of products manufactured that conform to required specifications, can decrease for many reasons, including materials containing impurities, equipment not functioning in accordance with requirements or human error. If our yield is lower than we expect, we may not be able to deliver products on time. For example, in the past, we have on occasion experienced poor yields on certain products that have prevented us from delivering products on time and have resulted in lost sales. If we fail to manufacture and deliver products in a timely fashion, our reputation may be harmed, we may jeopardize existing orders and lose potential future sales, and we may be forced to pay penalties to our customers. As part of our strategy, we may expand our domestic manufacturing capacity beyond the level required for our current sales in order to accommodate anticipated increases in our non-telecommunication business. As a result, our domestic manufacturing facilities may be underutilized from time to time. Conversely, if we do not maintain adequate manufacturing capacity to meet demand for our non-telecommunication products, we may lose opportunities for additional sales. Any failure to have sufficient manufacturing capacity to meet demand could cause us to lose revenues, thereby reducing our profitability, or increasing our net losses, and could harm our reputation with customers. 20 Table of Contents Although we do have long-term commitments from many of our customers, they are not for fixed quantities of product. As a result, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could have negative effects on our cash, inventory levels, revenues and results of operations. We have been required historically to place firm orders for products and manufacturing equipment with our suppliers up to six months prior to the anticipated delivery date and, on occasion, prior to receiving an order for the product, based on our forecasts of customer demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect, if at all. As a result, we would have additional usage of cash, excess inventory and overhead expense, which would harm our financial results. On occasion, we have experienced adverse financial results due to excess inventory and excess manufacturing capacity. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity were available, we would lose revenue opportunities, market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders and were unable to benefit from this increased demand. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders in the future, in which case we may lose the revenues associated with those additional purchase orders and our customer relationships and reputation may suffer. Any failure to protect our intellectual property appropriately could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. As of December 31, 2008, we had 43 United States patents issued, many with associated foreign filings and patents. Our issued patents include those relating to basic circuit and device designs, semiconductors, our multilithic microsystems technology and system designs. Our issued United States patents expire between 2009 and 2027. We maintain a vigorous technology development program that routinely generates potentially patentable intellectual property. Our decision as to whether to seek formal patent protection is done on a case by case basis and is based on the economic value of the intellectual property, the anticipated strength of the resulting patent, the cost of pursuing the patent and an assessment of using a patent as a strategy to protect the intellectual property. To protect our intellectual property, we regularly enter into written confidentiality and assignment of rights to inventions agreements with our employees, and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with third parties, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate in all cases to safeguard the proprietary technology underlying our products. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or attempt to design around our patents. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited outside of the United States, Europe and Japan. We may not be able to obtain any meaningful intellectual property protection in other countries and territories. Additionally, we may, for a variety of reasons, decide not to file for patent, copyright, or trademark protection outside of the United States. Moreover we occasionally agree to incorporate a customer’s or supplier’s intellectual property into our designs, in which case we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of that intellectual property. We also license technology from other companies, including Northrop Grumman Corporation. There are no limitations on our rights to make, use or sell products we may develop in the future using the chip technology licensed to us by Northrop Grumman Corporation. Steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers may not be successful. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. In addition, the invalidity of our patents may be asserted or prosecuted against us. Furthermore, in a patent or trade secret action, we could be required to withdraw the product or products as to which infringement was claimed from the market or redesign products offered for sale or under development. We have also at times agreed to indemnification obligations in favor of our customers and other third parties that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding 21 Table of Contents of our infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. These indemnification obligations would be triggered for reasons including our sale or supply to a customer or other third parties of a product which was later discovered to infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Irrespective of the validity or successful assertion of such claims we would likely incur significant costs and diversion of our resources with respect to the defense of such claims. To address any potential claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, in such an instance, a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. With regard to our pending patent applications, it is possible that no patents may be issued as a result of these or any future applications or the allowed patent claims may be of reduced value and importance. If they are issued, any patent claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, any existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented thus reducing or eliminating their commercial value. The failure of any patents to provide protection to our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products and use similar manufacturing techniques. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our revenues in the defense electronics and homeland security markets largely depend upon the funding and implementation decisions of the United States Government. These decisions could change abruptly and without notice, unexpectedly reducing our revenues from these markets. Our revenues are partially dependent on sales to defense electronics and homeland security prime contractors. Changes in levels of government contract funding and in implementation of government contracts may cause prime contractors to reduce funding to subcontractors. These funding and implementation decisions are difficult to predict and may change abruptly. As a result, our quarterly revenues from prime contractors may fluctuate significantly from quarter to quarter. Our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins. Among merchant suppliers in the wireless telecommunication market who provide integrated transceivers to radio OEMs, we primarily compete with Compel Electronics Inc., Filtronic plc, Microelectronics Technology Inc., and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated. Additionally, there are telecom OEMs, such as Ericsson and NEC Corporation, that use their own captive resources for the design and manufacture of their high-frequency RF transceiver modules, rather than using merchant suppliers like us. We believe that over one-half of the high-frequency RF transceiver modules manufactured today are being produced by these captive resources. To the extent that telecom OEMs presently, or may in the future, produce their own RF transceiver modules, we lose the opportunity to gain a customer and the potential related sales. Further, if a telecom OEM were to sell its captive operation to a competitor, we would lose the opportunity to acquire those potential sales. In non-telecommunication markets, we compete both with internal captive groups within many of the large defense OEMs, along with other companies such as Aeroflex Incorporated, Akon Inc., AML Communications Inc., Chelton, Ltd., Ciao Wireless, CTT Inc., Herley Industries, Inc., KMIC Technology, Inc., M/A-Com, Miteq, Inc. and Teledyne Technologies Incorporated, and Terabeam HXI. Many of our current and potential competitors are substantially larger than us and have greater financial, technical, manufacturing and marketing resources. In addition, we have begun designing and selling products for homeland security applications and the market for homeland security is only now emerging. If we are unable to compete successfully, our future operations and financial results will be harmed. Our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations and criminal and civil liabilities. Due to environmental concerns, the need for lead-free solutions in electronic components and systems is receiving increasing attention within the electronics industry as companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, or RoHS Directive. The RoHS Directive is European Union legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, after July 2006. We 22 Table of Contents believe that our products impacted by these regulations are compliant with the RoHS Directive and that materials will continue to be available to meet these new regulations. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of these new regulations. Failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including loss of sales, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory and criminal and civil liabilities. Government regulation of the communications industry could limit the growth of the markets that we serve or could require costly alterations of our current or future products. The markets that we serve are highly regulated. Communications service providers must obtain regulatory approvals to operate broadband wireless access networks within specified licensed bands of the frequency spectrum. Further, the Federal Communications Commission and foreign regulatory agencies have adopted regulations that impose stringent RF emissions standards on the communications industry. In response to the new environmental regulations on health and safety in Europe and China, we are required to design and build a lead-free product. Changes to these regulations may require that we alter the performance of our products. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Stock The market price of our common stock has fluctuated historically and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely since our initial public offering in October 2000. In 2008, the lowest daily closing sales price for our common stock was $2.09 and the highest daily closing sales price for our common stock was $7.62. The market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • our financial performance or the performance of our competitors; • the purchase or sale of common stock, short-selling or transactions by large stockholders; • technological innovations or other trends or changes in telecommunication and non-telecommunication networks; • successes or failures at significant product evaluations or site demonstrations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • decisions by major participants in the communications industry not to purchase products from us or to pursue alternative technologies; • decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups or strategies that include our company or industry; • market conditions in the industry, the financial markets and the economy as a whole; • existence of preferred stock with rights differing from those of common stock; and • the low trading volume of our common stock. It is likely that our operating results in one or more future quarters may be below the expectations of security analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies and the market prices for securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, future stock price volatility for our common stock could provoke the initiation of securities litigation, which may divert substantial management resources and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our existing insurance coverage may not sufficiently cover all costs and claims that could arise out of any such securities litigation. We anticipate that prices for our common stock will continue to be volatile. 23 Table of Contents We have a few shareholders that each own a large percentage of our outstanding capital stock and, as a result of their significant ownership, are able to significantly affect the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. Oak Technology Partners XI, Limited Partnership, or Oak, owns 300,000 shares of our Series B preferred stock that are convertible into 3,000,000 shares of our common stock and a warrant to purchase 90,000 shares of our Series B preferred stock that upon issuance will be convertible into 900,000 shares of our common stock. Assuming the exercise in full of the warrant issued to Oak and the conversion of Oak’s preferred shares into common stock, as of February 6, 2009, Oak beneficially owned 29.4% of our capital stock. In addition, two other shareholders each beneficially owned more than 10% of our capital stock on February 6, 2009. Because most matters requiring approval of our stockholders require the approval of the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding capital stock present in person or by proxy at the annual meeting, the significant ownership interest of these shareholders allows them to affect significantly the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may also delay, deter or prevent a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without their support, even if the transaction is favorable to our stockholders as a whole. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, arrangements with executive officers and the rights of our preferred shareholder contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change in control. We are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover laws by virtue of our status as a Delaware corporation. These laws prevent us from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of any stockholder, who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of our voting stock, unless our board of directors approved the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, or upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock of the corporation, or the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized by at least 662/3% of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. A corporation may opt out of the Delaware anti-takeover laws in its charter documents, however we have not chosen to do so. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control of management, including a staggered board of directors, the elimination of the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent, discretionary authority given to our board of directors as to the issuance of preferred stock, and indemnification rights for our directors and executive officers. Additionally, we have adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, providing for the distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock that may lead to the delay or prevention of a change in control that is not approved by our board of directors. We have an Executive Officer Severance and Retention Plan and a Key Employee Severance and Retention Plan that provide for severance payments and the acceleration of vesting of a percentage of certain stock options granted to our executive officers and certain senior, non-executive employees under specified conditions. The preferred shareholder has certain rights upon any liquidation, merger, reorganization and/or consolidation of Endwave into or with another corporation or any transaction or series of related transactions in which a person, entity or group acquires 50% or more of the combined voting power of our then outstanding securities. If such an event were to occur the holders of the preferred shares are entitled to receive prior and in preference to any distribution to holders of our common stock or any other class or series of stock subordinate in liquidation preference to the preferred stock, the amount invested plus all accumulated or accrued and unpaid dividends thereon. These plans may make us a less attractive acquisition target or may reduce the amount a potential acquirer may otherwise be willing to pay for our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 24 Table of Contents 