Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business Our operations and business are subject to the risks of a development stage company with little or no revenue and a history of operating losses. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We have incurred losses since inception, and we have had only nominal revenue. We have operated as a development stage company since our inception by devoting substantially all of our efforts to raising capital and research and development. Thus, our financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting and reporting principles prescribed by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards, or SFAS, No. 7, Accounting and Reporting by Development Stage Enterprises, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB. The report of our independent registered public accounting firm related to our financial statements as of 2005 and 2006 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2006 and cumulatively for the period from April 14, 1997, date of inception, to December 31, 2006 contains an explanatory paragraph expressing substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. Since inception, we have had only nominal revenue from the sale or licensing of our FPOAs, and we have had losses. We had net losses of $8,749,000, $18,935,000 and $22,643,000 for the years ended December 31, 2004, 2005 and 2006. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of $106,137,000. We expect to increase our spending significantly as we continue to expand our infrastructure. We are using and will use the proceeds from our October 2006 private placement and our October 2005 initial public offering and any proceeds we receive upon exercise of outstanding warrants to expand our sales and marketing efforts and continue research and development. In addition, we will need significant revenue and/or to raise additional capital to finance our business. We do not know whether or when we will become profitable because of the significant uncertainties regarding our ability to generate revenues. We may need additional financing in the future, which may not be available to us on favorable terms or at all. If we need additional financing but do not obtain it when we need it or on terms that are favorable to us, our business would be adversely and materially affected. We may need additional financing in the future to finance our business. The timing and amount of such additional financing depends on many factors, including the following: · delays in the development and testing of our FPOA chips or design tools; · the costs of expanding our sales and marketing activities; · the rate and degree of acceptance of our FPOA chips in the marketplace; · our ability to establish successful strategic relationships with companies to develop and market our FPOA chips; 4 · the cost of or delays in producing our chips; · the cost of hiring and training qualified application engineers and field application engineers; · the costs of preparing, filing, prosecuting, maintaining and enforcing patent claims and other patent-related costs; · the costs of defending any patent or trademark infringement actions brought against us by third parties; and · the cost of being a public company because of the disclosure, reporting, financial accounting and other requirements that apply to public companies. Additional financing may not be available to us when we need it or on terms that are favorable to us. If we cannot obtain adequate financing on a timely basis or under terms that are favorable to us, we may be forced to delay or limit aspects of our business plan, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we may be required to seek funds from sources that will place limits on our operations and management or that require rights that are superior to those possessed by the holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, the new equity securities may dilute the average per share price or ownership interests of our stockholders, and the rights of the holders of the equity securities may be more favorable than those of the holders of our common stock. Because our current and planned FPOA chips are highly complex, they may contain defects or errors that are detected only after deployment in commercial applications, which would harm our reputation and result in increased liability and expense. Our current and planned FPOA chips are highly complex and may contain defects, errors or failures. After the initial fabrication and packaging of an FPOA chip, we test their functionality and performance internally. Our testing may reveal some problems before the chips are delivered to our customers that would result in significant delays and costs to us. Because our chips are programmable in the field, they can be fully tested only when deployed and functioning in commercial applications. Consequently, our customers may discover errors after our chips have been deployed. The occurrence of any defects, errors or failures in our FPOA chips could result in the cancellation of orders, product returns, repairs or replacements, diversion of our resources, legal actions by our customers or our customers’ end users and other costs and losses to us or to our customers or end users. Any of these occurrences could also result in the loss of or delay in market acceptance of our FPOA chips and loss of sales, which would adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We have experienced defects in the past and may experience defects in the future. Timing-related defects in our original FPOA design caused a low yield of chips that could operate at a clock speed of one GHz. As a result, we had to manufacture additional chips and sort through the available supply of chips to find those that worked properly, which increased our costs and delayed the marketing of our chips. Because the trend in the semiconductor industry is moving toward even more complex products, this risk probably will intensify over time and may result in increased liability and expenses. In the fourth quarter of 2006, we began shipping a production version of our FPOA chip, but we have not yet achieved commercial acceptance of the chip. Our success depends on effectively introducing our FPOA chips to the market and having them gain market acceptance. The failure of our FPOA chips to achieve commercial acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends upon our ability to introduce our FPOA chips to the market in a timely and effective manner and to have our FPOA chips gain widespread market acceptance. We have begun the process of identifying strategic markets for our FPOA chips and introducing our FPOA chips to these 5 markets. However, our FPOA chip is new and has not been used in a product or in an electronic system that has been commercially distributed. From the time a customer selects our FPOA chips for its electronic system, it may be a considerable period of time before the customer starts volume production of its system and purchasing chips in volume, if at all. There can be no assurance that design wins will result in any production commitments that generate revenue growth for a number of reasons, including the decision of the customer to terminate the development or production of the electronic system for which the FPOA chip was selected. The targeted markets into which we are introducing and will introduce our FPOA chips may not accept them. Users may not accept our FPOA chips as preferable to existing semiconductor chips, including ASICs and FPGAs, or new products in our targeted applications and densities. Electronic equipment manufacturers and other potential customers for our FPOA chips often have a preferred and established supplier of semiconductor chips. It will be difficult for us to overcome this preference and convince our targeted customers to use our FPOA chips rather than chips from their preferred vendors. The acceptance and deployment of our FPOA chips in the market will depend on many factors, including the availability and effectiveness of our FPOA chips and competing products from our competitors, the willingness of targeted customers to expend resources to test and use our new FPOA chips, the effectiveness of our marketing and sales personnel and the pricing for our FPOA chips. Any of the foregoing factors, among others, could limit market acceptance of our FPOA chips. Our failure to effectively introduce our FPOA chips to the market or the market’s failure to accept our chips would have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success will depend on our ability to develop new FPOA chips, introduce them to the market and have them gain market acceptance. There is no assurance that we can do so successfully or on a timely basis. Our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We operate in a market characterized by rapid technological change. In order to effectively compete, we need to develop new FPOA chips on a timely basis that will gain market acceptance. The development of new FPOA chips is a highly complex and precise process, and we will likely experience delays in developing and introducing them. Our development efforts may not result in the timely introduction of new FPOA chips or enhancements to existing chips. Successful chip development and introduction depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to: · accurate chip definition and specification; · timely completion of the chip design; · establishing successful production arrangements with third-party semiconductor foundries; · establishing successful relationships with strategic partners; · establishing successful arrangements with third-party packaging companies; · timely and quality chip fabrication; · effective post-fabrication testing; · receipt of United States government funding by us or our customers; · the lack of a benchmark to measure the performance difference between an FPGA and our FPOA; · achieving acceptable manufacturing yields; and · acceptance of our FPOA chips by our target customers. 6 Due to the complexity and precision of our planned FPOA chips and the many variables involved in their design, we may not be able to successfully develop and introduce our existing and planned FPOA chips to the marketplace on a timely basis or at all. We anticipate that we will need to continually invest in semiconductor design engineering talent, state-of-the-art engineering tools and related test equipment. Our failure to develop and introduce new FPOA chips successfully would materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Our success depends on our ability to develop effective FPOA design tools, either alone or in alliances with independent electronic design automation companies, and to have the design tools gain market acceptance. Our failure to do so would delay or prevent the commercialization of our FPOA chips, which would materially harm our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. As part of the development process for our FPOA chips, our customers must have design tools so they can program, or map, their intellectual property applications, or algorithms, to our FPOA chips. Working with Summit Design, Inc., which was acquired by Mentor Graphics Corporation in October 2006, we have developed a suite of FPOA-specific design tools. To be successful, we must introduce these design tools to the market and have them accepted by customers or develop other design tools that will be accepted either alone, with Mentor Graphics or with other electronic design automation companies. Developing new FPOA design tools is a complex process, and we will likely experience delays in developing and introducing them. Successful product development and introduction depends on a number of factors including, but not limited to, accurate tool definition, user documentation and specification, timely completion of the design tools and acceptance of our FPOA design tools by our target customers. In addition, the FPOA-specific design tools run only on Windows® operating systems and software, which may delay or prevent their acceptance by our target customers. We may not be able to successfully develop and introduce FPOA design tools to the market on a timely basis or at all. Our failure to develop and introduce new design tools successfully would materially and adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We presently rely on Mentor Graphics Corporation for the design tools that are used to map our customers’ algorithms to our FPOAs. If Mentor Graphics could not or would not provide these design tools and related support services for any reason, further design tool development would be delayed, which would delay the introduction of our FPOAs to the marketplace. Our current strategy for developing the FPOA design tools used to program our customers’ intellectual property applications to our FPOA chips is to form strategic relationships with electronic design automation companies, such as Mentor Graphics Corporation, to jointly develop these design tools. Thus, our success will depend on forming and successfully maintaining these relationships. Mentor Graphics is the only current source for an integrated design tool software suite that includes our FPOA-specific design tools. If Mentor Graphics was unable or unwilling to provide these design tools and related support services for any reason, any further design tool development would be delayed. In addition, our ability to fix any problems that arise with respect to the design tools would be limited. We probably would have to identify and enter into a strategic relationship with another electronic design automation company to develop a new set of design tools. There is no assurance we could do so at all or under terms that are acceptable to us. Any delay in our design tool development would result in a delay in introducing our FPOA chips to the marketplace, which would have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. 7 We use a third-party contractor to fabricate the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips. If our supply of silicon wafers from the contractor was interrupted, delayed or terminated for any reason, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. We are and intend to remain a fabless semiconductor company. We do not intend to invest any funds or resources to build, own or operate a silicon wafer fabrication facility. We anticipate that all of our chip fabrication needs will be supplied by independent contractors. Currently, we are working with Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company, or TSMC, in Taiwan to fabricate the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips. We have no formalized contract with or supply or allocation commitment from TSMC. TSMC’s chip production facilities have at any time a fixed capacity, the allocation of which is determined by TSMC and over which we have no control. As a small customer of TSMC, our production runs may not be assigned the priority given to larger customers of TSMC. Our reliance on TSMC to fabricate our FPOA chips also subjects us to reduced control over delivery schedules, quality assurance and manufacturing yields and costs. A shortage in TSMC’s capacity, or any interruptions or delays in fabricating the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips, could hinder our ability to meet any demand for our FPOA chips. To help assure the continued supply of our FPOA chips, we may engage other companies to fabricate the silicon wafers used in our chips. However, there are only a limited number of foundries that have the capability to fabricate these silicon wafers. If we engage other vendors, we may encounter start-up difficulties and delays and incur additional costs. We may not be able to engage other chip fabrication vendors at all or under terms that are acceptable or favorable to us. Also, TSMC is located in Taiwan, which is in an area that is seismically active and where cyclones occur, and there have been tensions between Taiwan and the Peoples Republic of China. Should there be a major earthquake, a cyclone or a threatened or actual outbreak of hostilities in Taiwan in the future, the production of our chips by TSMC could be disrupted or cease. Such a disruption or cessation in the production of our chips would likely result in our inability to ship our FPOA chips in a timely manner, thereby adversely affecting our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. The production of silicon wafers is a complex process, and production yields can be adversely affected by many factors over which we have no control. A shortage or delay in producing the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. If our FPOA chips gain market acceptance, we will increasingly rely on favorable production yields and timely delivery of silicon wafers from our third-party contractor, which currently is TSMC. The fabrication of the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips is a highly complex and precise process. Wafer production yields depend on a wide variety of factors. Minute impurities, contaminants in the manufacturing environment, difficulties in the fabrication process, defects in the masks used to print the circuit designs onto the silicon wafers, manufacturing equipment failures, wafer breakage and other factors could cause a substantial percentage of the wafers to be nonfunctional. Shortages in the supply of or defects in the silicon wafers used in our FPOA chips could cause us to delay producing, testing and shipping our FPOA chips, which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Difficulties in the chip fabrication process can also occur if we begin production of a new product or transition to new processes. We expect that the majority of our existing and planned FPOA chips use and will use increasingly advanced process geometries in order to achieve higher performance, lower power consumption and lower production costs. Our FPOA chips are presently fabricated in 130-nanometer process technology, and we expect our FPOA chips will be fabricated in 90-nanometer or smaller process technologies in the future to remain competitive. If we experience delays in the redesign of the FPOA chip or the fabrication of the silicon wafers, it would delay the introduction of our chips to the market, cause us to miss market opportunities and have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. 8 We rely on a single-source independent contractor for our packaging. The disruption or termination of our relationship with this contractor could result in a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. The packaging of our FPOA chips is performed by a single supplier—Siliconware Precision Industries Co. Ltd. (SPIL). Because we rely on an independent contractor for our packaging services, we cannot directly control delivery schedules or quality levels. The disruption or termination of this source for any reason could result in, at a minimum, a temporary or a long-term adverse effect on our business, revenue financial condition and results of operations. The semiconductor industry is intensely competitive. Most of our competitors have substantially greater resources than we do, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully compete in the industry. The semiconductor industry is highly competitive and characterized by rapid and disruptive technological change, product obsolescence and heightened international competition. Our ability to compete successfully in the industry will depend on our ability to develop, manufacture and sell complex semiconductor components and design tools that offer customers greater value and higher performance than solutions offered by competing vendors. Significant competitive factors in the semiconductor market include, among others, product features, performance, price, timing of market introductions, effectiveness of sales channels, emergence of new computing and networking standards, quality, reliability and customer support. Our FPOA chips may be used in applications now served by vendors of FPGAs, ASICs and digital signal processors, and we will compete against vendors of these products. Most of these competitors, including Xilinx, Inc. and Altera Corporation, have greater technical, financial and marketing resources, well-established market positions, name recognition, broader product lines and longer standing customer relationships than we do. There are multiple manufacturers of communications and digital signal processing semiconductor chips currently planning or offering products that will compete with the FPOA chips we offer and plan to offer. We may not be able to compete with these vendors in the targeted applications and densities. Increased competition would likely adversely affect our financial condition and revenue. Competitors with greater financial resources or broader product lines may have a greater ability to withstand sustained price reductions in their primary markets, retain or regain market share and offer lower prices and additional products or services that we cannot offer. These competitors may be in a stronger position to respond more quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. Competitive pressures could reduce or slow market acceptance of our FPOA chips and result in price reductions, lower gross margins and increased expenses that could adversely affect our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Rapid technological change could cause our FPOA chips and technology to become obsolete or require us to redesign our FPOA chips, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. The rapid rate of change in technology across a wide variety of industries will require us to expend substantial resources in an effort to develop new FPOA chips that will keep pace with or stay ahead of these advancements. We may not be able to anticipate and/or respond to technological changes in a timely manner, and our response may not result in successful product development and timely product introductions. If we are unable to anticipate or respond to technological changes, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 9 Our ability to compete depends on our ability to protect our intellectual property, which may not be adequately protected. Our ability to compete depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely on a combination of United States patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secret law, employee non-disclosure agreements and work-for-hire and non-disclosure agreements with independent contractors to protect and enforce our intellectual property rights. As of the date of this filing, we had been granted two United States patents, and we had six patent applications on file with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. However, filing a patent application does not mean we will be issued a patent or that any patent eventually issued will be as broad as requested in the patent application or sufficient to protect our technology. In addition, there are a number of factors that could cause our patents to become invalid or unenforceable or that could cause our patent applications to not be granted, including known or unknown prior art, deficiencies in the patent application or the lack of originality of the technology. Also, any common law protection of our intellectual property could be compromised by the fact that we do not have assignment of inventions agreements with our former employees. We believe that we currently hold common law trademark rights in our trademarks MathStar, FPOA and ARRIX, and we have pending federal trademark applications in the United States for the trademarks MathStar, FPOA and ARRIX. However, filing a trademark application does not mean that our trademarks will be registered or protected. We do not have any trademarks registered outside the United States, nor do we have any trademark applications pending outside the United States. Even if federal registrations are granted to us, our trademark rights may be challenged. It is also possible our competitors or others will adopt trademarks similar to ours, thus impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. We could incur substantial costs in prosecuting or defending trademark infringement suits. We currently hold one domain name relating to our business, MathStar.com, which we believe is important to our brand recognition and overall success. We may be unable to acquire other relevant domain names in the United States and in other countries where we conduct or may conduct business. If we are not able to protect our trademarks or domain name, we may experience difficulties in achieving and maintaining brand recognition and customer loyalty, causing us to lose significant market share. If we lose market share, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. Our patents and patent applications and copyrights, trademarks, trade secret law, employee non-disclosure agreements and work-for-hire and non-disclosure agreements with independent contractors may not provide meaningful protection from our competitors because the status of any patent and other intellectual property rights involves complex legal and factual questions, and the breadth of claims allowed is uncertain. Our competitors may be able to circumvent our patents and other intellectual property rights or develop new patentable technologies that displace our existing technology. In addition, and despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights from unauthorized use or disclosure, third parties, including our employees, former employees or consultants, may attempt to disclose, obtain or use our proprietary information or technologies without our authorization. If other companies obtain our proprietary information or technologies or develop substantially equivalent information or technologies, they may develop products that successfully compete against our FPOA chips. Our technology has no patent protection outside of the United States because we have no non-United States patents, and we do not currently plan on applying for non-United States patents. This could result in the appropriation of our technology outside of the United States, which could have an adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We have no patents outside of the United States, and we do not currently plan on applying for non-United States patents. Thus, our technology does not have patent protection outside of the United States. This could result in the appropriation of our technology outside of the United States, which could have an 10 adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. The laws of certain countries in which our FPOA chips are or may be developed, manufactured or sold may not protect our technology and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Policing the unauthorized use of our technology is difficult, may result in significant expense to us and could divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. Even if we spend significant resources and efforts to protect our intellectual property, there can be no assurance that we will be able to prevent the appropriation of our technology. The appropriation and use by others of our proprietary intellectual property could materially harm our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We are at risk of intellectual property infringement claims. The semiconductor industry is characterized by frequent litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. If we prosecute infringement claims against third parties who are infringing or illegally using our intellectual property, or if we defend ourselves or our licensees against any similar claims brought by others, it could be costly and time-consuming to us and would divert the attention of management and key personnel from business issues, regardless of the claims’ merit. Due to the anticipated costs involved in filing and conducting an infringement action to protect our technology, we may decide not to file such an action, which could result in another party misappropriating our intellectual property. We could also incur substantial costs in interference proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in connection with any patents or patent applications or opposition proceedings declared by the United States Patent and Trademark Office in connection with our trademarks. Although we have filed patent applications and have been granted two patents in the United States, we have not conducted, and are not required to conduct, any search or study regarding the existence of any technology on which our technology may infringe before filing a patent application. We are required to investigate any patented technology of which we have knowledge on which our technology may infringe. We have no knowledge of any such patented technology. However, a patent application is confidential until 18 months after its filing date and, for this reason, and due to the complexities of such a search, a search may not discern technology subject to patent applications on which our technology may infringe. A third party claiming infringement may be able to obtain an injunction or other equitable relief against us and the use of our technology by us or others, which could prevent or inhibit the production or sale of our FPOA chips. If another party bringing a claim of infringement against us prevailed, we or our licensees, if any, may be required to obtain one or more licenses from or pay royalties to third parties, which could entail significant expense. There can be no assurance that we or our vendors or licensees would be able to obtain from a third party any required license of technology at a reasonable cost or at all, or be able to design commercially acceptable non-infringing alternatives. Our failure or the failure of our vendors or licensees to obtain such a license or develop such alternatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. We plan on purchasing intellectual property for the next versions of our FPOA, and we may not be able to obtain the intellectual property we need under terms and conditions that are acceptable to us. We developed certain intellectual property (primarily input/output blocks) for the current production version of our FPOA chip we are selling. We made the decision to purchase this intellectual property in the future, as we believe it will allow us to get future FPOA chips to market more quickly and economically. We have signed contracts to acquire the intellectual property we believe we need for the next two versions of our FPOA chips. The intellectual property for which we have signed contracts is based on industry standards. However, there is no certainty that the intellectual property we will acquire under the contracts will be sufficient to produce the chips, that we will be able to purchase adequate intellectual property for future versions of the chip, or that we can acquire the intellectual property we need under terms and pricing we find acceptable. 11 The market for semiconductor chips has been characterized by periods of significant fluctuations in demand. Our revenue and financial performance will depend on demand for semiconductor chips overall and particularly those with the performance characteristics of our FPOA chip. We are focusing our efforts on the design, marketing and sale of our FPOAs for users of semiconductors. The market for semiconductor chips has been characterized since its inception by significant fluctuations in demand. Beginning in early 2000, the semiconductor industry was significantly affected by the economic downturn and contraction in the computing and communication equipment markets and has only recently begun to emerge from this downturn. During this downturn, semiconductor users significantly reduced or even suspended purchases of semiconductor chips. This cycle of reduced demand for semiconductor chips resulted in significant reductions in unit demand, excess customer inventories, price erosion and excess production capacity. If demand for semiconductor chips remains low or declines further and does not increase, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. We currently rely and we may rely in the future on contracts, relationships and arrangements between our strategic partners and the United States government, and we may enter into contracts with the United States government. Contracts with the United States government involve risks in addition to normal business risks. If our contracts or our strategic partners’ contracts with the United States government were altered or terminated for any reason, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Two of the companies with which we have strategic relationships—Honeywell International, Inc. and Valley Technologies, Inc.—have contracts, relationships and arrangements with branches of the United States government in which they are using or plan to use our FPOA chips. We may enter into contracts, relationships and arrangements with branches of the United States government in the future. In addition to normal business risks, companies engaged in supplying military or other equipment to the United States government are subject to additional risks, including dependence on Congressional appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental procurement legislation and regulations and other policies that may reflect military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling, complexity of designs and the speed with which they become obsolete, necessity for constant design improvements, intense competition for United States government business which requires increases in time and investment for design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work and other factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of United States government contracts, particularly development contracts, and generally result in adjustments of contract prices. Such contracts are subject to termination by the United States government for the convenience of the United States government. We and other companies with which we may form strategic relationships in the future may enter into similar contracts, relationships and arrangements with the United States government, which would expose us and them to the same risks. If these contracts, relationships and arrangements with the United States government were altered or terminated for any reason, our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success depends on the services of our existing management and upon our ability to attract qualified engineers and other technical, management, sales, marketing and financial personnel. Our success depends to a significant extent upon the continued services of our current management and on our ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified critical employees, including design and application engineers, of which there are a limited number. In some of our fields of operations, there are only a limited number of people in the job market who possess the requisite skills. The competition for such employees is very intense. Even if we identify and hire qualified employees, there can be no assurance that such employees will remain in our employ. We have had difficulty in finding qualified engineers experienced in the design of high-performance digital chips. In addition, we may not be able to attract and 12 retain engineers located in proximity to our design centers. To employ qualified design and application engineers, we may have to establish a presence in other localities, which would be expensive. We do not have employment or noncompetition agreements with any of our employees, including members of management, although we have non-disclosure agreements with them. The loss of the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or our inability to attract qualified personnel in the future, could restrict our ability to develop new FPOA chips or enhance existing FPOA chips in a timely manner, sell our FPOA chips to our customers or manage our business effectively, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, revenue, financial condition and results of operations. Douglas M. Pihl owned 7.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of December 31, 2006, which allows him to exert substantial influence over our business and management. Douglas M. Pihl, who is our chairman, president, chief executive officer and a director, owned 1,352,501 shares individually and 177,334 shares jointly with his spouse, which is 7.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2006. He is our single largest stockholder. Accordingly, he is able to exert significant control over our affairs including, but not limited to, the election of directors. As of December 31, 2006, Mr. Pihl’s spouse owned individually 2,834 shares of our common stock and warrants to purchase 137,492 shares, of which Mr. Pihl disclaims any beneficial ownership. Mr. Pihl’s spouse disclaims any beneficial ownership of shares owned individually by Mr. Pihl. Mr. Pihl’s spouse is a registered representative with the underwriter of our initial public offering. Mr. Pihl also disclaims beneficial ownership of 8,001 shares of our common stock owned by irrevocable trusts for which he is the grantor. We may encounter difficulties in managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. If we successfully introduce our FPOAs to the marketplace, we will need to expand our development, marketing and sales capabilities. If our operations expand, we expect that we will need to manage additional relationships with various strategic partners, suppliers, manufacturers’ representatives and other third parties. Our ability to manage our operations and any growth will require us to make appropriate changes and upgrades, as necessary, to our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures. Our inability to manage growth could delay the execution of our business plan or disrupt our operations. Changes in accounting principles, including changes in employee stock option accounting rules, may adversely affect our reported operating results and our efforts and success in recruiting and retaining employees. Technology companies, including us, have a history of using employee stock programs to hire, incentivize and retain employees in a competitive marketplace. In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, adopted SFAS No. 123(R), Share-Based Payment, which was effective for MathStar on January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 123(R) requires companies, including MathStar, to record equity-based compensation expense for stock options and any employee stock purchase plan rights granted to employees based on the fair value of the equity instrument at the time of grant. We began to record these expenses on January 1, 2006. MathStar applied the modified prospective method and has not restated prior year results. The actual amount of expense that we recognize will depend on the value of our common stock at the time of any grants of options and other stock awards to employees. The change in accounting rules may lead to an increased loss, if we recognize a net loss, or a decrease in reported earnings, if we have earnings. This could also adversely affect our ability to use employee stock plans to attract and reward employees and could result in a competitive disadvantage to us in the employee marketplace. Our financial results could be adversely affected by other changes in accounting principles by FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the SEC, or various other bodies formed to promulgate and interpret accounting principles which have not yet been announced or adopted. 13 We are incurring increased costs as a result of being a public company. On October 26, 2005, which was the effective date of our initial public offering, we became a public company. As a public company, we are incurring significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and new rules subsequently implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market have required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal and financial compliance costs significantly and to make some activities more time consuming and costly. For example, we created additional board committees and adopted and implemented policies regarding internal controls and disclosure controls and procedures. We also are incurring additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We have hired additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. These new rules and regulations are making it more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain and maintain director and officer liability insurance, and we will be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain and maintain the same or similar coverage. As a result, it will be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. Our board of directors may issue and fix the terms of shares of our preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could adversely affect the voting power of holders of our common stock or any change in control of MathStar. Our board of directors is authorized, without stockholder action, to establish various classes or series of preferred stock from time to time and to determine the rights, preferences and privileges of any unissued classes or series including, among other matters, any dividend rights, dividend rates, conversion rights, voting rights, terms of redemption, liquidation preferences, sinking fund terms, the number of shares constituting any such series and the description thereof, and to issue any such shares. Our board of directors may, without stockholder approval, issue shares of a class or series of preferred stock with voting and conversion rights that could adversely affect the voting power of the holders of the common stock and may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control of us. We will not pay cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain any earnings or cash flow to finance the development of our business. Accordingly, we do not anticipate the payment of cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. We have not paid any dividends in the past, and we may be restricted or prevented from paying cash dividends by loan covenants with any lenders or cash dividends on our common stock by the terms of any preferred stock that we issue. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. The market for our stock is thinly traded, and a more active trading market for our shares may never develop or be sustained. Further, we cannot be certain that the market price of our common stock will not decline below the current trading ranges or below the amount required to maintain a listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. Should we fail to meet the minimum standards established by The NASDAQ Global Market, we could be de-listed, meaning stockholders would be subject to limited liquidity. 14 Our stock price will be volatile, meaning purchasers of our common stock could incur substantial losses. Our stock price will be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for semiconductor and other technology companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their common stock at or above the price at which they purchased it. The market price for our common stock may be influenced by many factors, including: · the failure of our FPOAs to perform as anticipated; · the failure of our FPOAs to be accepted in the marketplace; · delays in the acceptance of our FPOAs in the marketplace; · changes in our relationships with our strategic partners; · adverse events with respect to our strategic partners; · disputes concerning patents or other proprietary rights; · our ability to design products to commercial or governmental standards; · litigation; · the condition of our balance sheet; · the departure of key personnel and our inability to replace such personnel in a timely manner; · future sales of our common stock, including shares eligible for sale under Rule 144; · variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; · changes in accounting principles; · our failure to maintain adequate internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures; · investors’ perceptions of us; or · general economic, industry and other market conditions. If there are substantial sales of our common stock, our stock price could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that existing stockholders may sell shares of common stock, the market price of our common stock could decline significantly. All shares are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws unless purchased by our “affiliates,” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, on May 23, 2006, we filed a Form S-8 registration statement to register 2,549,456 additional shares of common stock that were authorized for issuance under our stock plans. To the extent these shares are subject to outstanding options, after any exercise of the options, the shares can be freely sold in the public market subject to the restrictions imposed on our affiliates by Rule 144. The anti-takeover provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law, or the DGCL, may delay or prevent transactions that are favorable to our stockholders. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of the DGCL regarding “business combinations,” as that term is defined in the DGCL. Our directors’ ability to issue and fix the terms of our undesignated preferred stock without stockholder approval could be used as an anti-takeover measure. We may, in the future, consider adopting additional anti-takeover measures. The anti-takeover provisions of 15 the DGCL, as well as any future anti-takeover measures adopted by us, may, in certain circumstances, delay, deter or prevent takeover attempts and other changes in control of the company not approved by our board of directors. As a result, our stockholders may lose opportunities to dispose of their shares at favorable prices generally available in takeover attempts or that may be available under a merger proposal, and the market price, voting and other rights of the holders of common stock may also be affected. See “Description of Our Securities.” Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 