Item 1A. Risk Factors This section highlights some of the specific risks that could affect us. Although this section attempts to highlight some of the key factors, please be aware that these risks are not the only risks we face; other risks may prove to be important in the future. New risks may emerge at any time, and we cannot predict such risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or the trading price of our securities. The current and further deterioration in the residential construction and commercial development real estate markets may lead to increased non-performing assets in our loan portfolio and increased provision expense for losses on loans, which could have a material adverse effect on our capital, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Business The Corporation’s Business may be Adversely Affected by Conditions in the Financial Markets and Economic Conditions Generally The Corporation’s success depends significantly on the general economic conditions of the State of Michigan. Unlike larger regional or national banks that are more geographically diversified, the Bank provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Southeast Michigan and Northwest Ohio. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Bank’s products and services as well as the ability of the Bank’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of the Bank’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Bank’s and the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. In particular, the current environment impacts the ability of borrowers to pay interest on and repay principal of outstanding loans and the value of collateral securing those loans. A favorable business environment is generally characterized by economic growth, efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and investor confidence, strong business earnings, and other factors. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be caused by declines in economic growth, business activity, or investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in inflation or interest rates; natural disasters; or a combination of these or other factors. Southeast Michigan and the United States as a whole have gone through a prolonged downward economic cycle from 2007 through 2009. Significant weakness in market conditions adversely impacted all aspects of the economy including the Corporation’s business. In particular, dramatic declines in the housing market, with decreasing home prices and increasing delinquencies and foreclosures, negatively impacted the credit performance of construction loans, which resulted in significant write-downs of assets by many financial institutions. Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions was greatly reduced, and local governments and many businesses experienced serious difficulty due to the lack of consumer spending and the lack of liquidity in the credit markets. In addition, unemployment increased significantly during that period. The business environment was adverse for many households and businesses in the Southeast Michigan market, United States, and worldwide. 13 Overall, during the past two years, the general business environment has had an adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, and there can be no assurance that the environment will improve in the near term. Unemployment levels remain elevated, housing prices remain depressed, and demand for housing remains weak due to distressed sales and tightened lending standards. Consequently, particularly in the Michigan economy which has been one of the most adversely impacted states in the United States by the current recession, there can be no assurance that the economic conditions will improve in the near term. Furthermore, a worsening of economic conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on the Corporation and others in the financial institutions industry. Continued market stress could have a material adverse effect on the credit quality of the Corporation’s loans, and therefore, its financial condition and results of operations. The Bank is operating under a Memorandum of Understanding with its governmental regulators and may be subject to further regulatory enforcement actions. In May, 2009, the Bank agreed to an informal memorandum of understanding (the “MOU”) with the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR to establish, among other things, reporting regularly to federal and state regulators about our operations, financial condition, and efforts to mitigate risks. As a part of this informal program the Bank undertook certain actions to improve the Bank’s credit administration and also developed a written plan to attain a minimum Tier 1 Leverage Capital ratio of 8%. The Bank’s tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing its tier 1 capital (the numerator of the ratio) by its average total consolidated assets (the denominator of the ratio). Tier I capital of the Bank is the Bank’s core capital (qualifying stockholders’ equity and retained earnings). The Corporation’s plan to improve its tier I leverage ratio and otherwise enhance its overall financial health was approved by the Corporation's Board of Directors and timely submitted to the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank’s Tier I Leverage Capital ratio was 6.21% and therefore the Bank has not yet achieved the target Tier 1 Leverage ratio adopted in connection with the MOU. As a result of this, the FDIC and/or the Michigan OFIR may take formal regulatory action against the Bank, including the issuance of a formal agreement or consent order. Our Business is Subject to Credit Risk and the Impact of Nonperforming Loans We face the risk that loan losses, including unanticipated loan losses due to changes in loan portfolios, fraud and economic factors, could require additional increases in the allowance for loan losses. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause our net income to decline and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Making loans is an essential element of our business, and there is a risk that customer loans will not be repaid. The risk of nonpayment is affected by a number of factors, including: · The duration of the loan; · Credit risks of a particular borrower; · Changes in unemployment, economic and industry conditions; and · in the case of a collateralized loan, the potential inadequacy of the value of the collateral in the event of default, such as has resulted from the deterioration in commercial and residential real estate values. We attempt to maintain an appropriate allowance for loan losses to provide for potential losses in our loan portfolio. We periodically determine the amount of the allowance based on consideration of several factors including, among others, the ongoing review and grading of the loan portfolio, consideration of our past loan loss experience as well as that of the banking industry, trends in past due and nonperforming loans, risk characteristics of the various classifications of loans, existing economic conditions, the fair value of underlying collateral, the size and diversity of individual credits, and other qualitative and quantitative factors which could affect probable credit losses. We determine the amount of the allowance for loan losses by considering these factors and by using estimates related to the amount and timing of expected future cash flows on impaired loans, estimated losses on pools of homogeneous loans based on our historical loss experience with additional qualitative factors for various issues, and allocation of specific reserves for special situations that are unique to the measurement period with consideration of current economic trends and conditions, all of which are susceptible to significant change. As an integral part of their examination process, various federal and state regulatory agencies also review the allowance for loan losses. These agencies may require that certain loan balances be classified differently or charged off when their credit evaluations differ from those of management, based on their judgments about information available to them at the time of their examination. Although we believe the level of the allowance for loan losses is appropriate as recorded in the consolidated financial statements, because current economic conditions could continue to deteriorate and future events are inherently difficult to predict, the anticipated amount of estimated loan losses, and therefore the adequacy of the allowance, could change significantly. At December 31, 2009 our allowance for loan losses was $24.1 million, or 2.83% of total loans and 27.94% of non-performing loans, an increase of $5.6 million over our allowance for loan losses of $18.5 million, or 1.97% of total loans and 34.45% of nonperforming loans as of December 31, 2008. 14 A substantial portion of our loan portfolio is sensitive to real estate values, and declining real estate prices in our markets have resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses on certain segments of our portfolio. As of December 31, 2009, more than 85% of the Bank’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate. Taken together with the general economic downturn in our key markets, the effects of ongoing mortgage market turbulence, combined with the ongoing correction in residential real estate market prices and reduced levels of home sales, could result in further reductions in real estate values, which may adversely affect the value of collateral securing mortgage loans that we hold, mortgage loan originations, and profits on sale of mortgage loans. Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes and financial stress on borrowers resulting from job losses, interest rate resets on adjustable rate mortgage loans or other factors could have further adverse effects on borrowers and their ability to repay loans from us. A continued sustained economic downturn could adversely affect other portions of our loan portfolio. At December 31, 2009, $93.8 million or 11.1% of our loans were categorized as commercial loans. These loans are generally unsecured business lines of credit, equipment loans and other business related extensions of credit. These loans are subject to business risks associated with the specific risks of the borrower as well as the southeast Michigan economy. Repayment of these loans relies substantially on the profitability and cash flow capacity of the borrower. Consumer loans totaling $22.1 million, or 2.6% of our total loans at December 31, 2009, are comprised principally of secured and unsecured personal loans such as vehicle loans and unsecured personal lines of credit. These loans are principally dependent upon the personal income of the borrower as the source of repayment. Risk of default and nonpayment of these loans rises substantially when there is a general downturn in the economy and borrowers lose their jobs. There is no precise method of predicting loan losses, and therefore we always face the risk that charge-offs in future periods will exceed our allowance for loan losses or that additional increases in the allowance for loan losses will otherwise be required. Additions to the allowance for loan losses would cause net income to decline in the period(s) in which such additions occur and could also have a material adverse impact on our capital and financial position. In addition to the risk of loss of principal associated with our loan portfolio, our profitability is adversely affected by non-performing loans. Non-performing loans include loans past due 90 days or more, restructured loans, and non-accrual loans. The Bank has a Current Need for Additional Equity We lost $34.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2009. While we believe we will be able to generate profits during 2010, we cannot be certain that we will return to profitability. Given our recent losses, asset quality issues, and overall financial condition, we must raise additional capital to provide the Corporation and the Bank sufficient capital resources to meet their commitments and business needs. In addition, the Bank is party to an MOU that it entered into with the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR in May, 2009. In connection with the MOU a target Tier 1 leverage ratio of 8% was established for the Bank. This is the same target that the Bank had established for itself in 2007. At December 31, 2009, the Bank’s Tier 1 leverage ratio was 6.21%, its Tier 1 risk-based ratio was 8.87% and its total risk-based capital ratio was 10.14%. In order to achieve the target Tier 1 Leverage ratio of 8%, the Bank would have needed approximately $25.3 million in additional Tier 1 equity capital as of December 31, 2009. While the Corporation, on behalf of the Bank, is attempting to raise the required additional capital, we may not be able to raise the necessary capital on favorable terms, or at all. An inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. It also could result in the FDIC and/or the Michigan OFIR taking formal regulatory enforcement action against the Bank, including the issuance of a consent order. 15 The Corporation is Subject to Interest Rate Risk The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic and market conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Corporation receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair values of the Corporation’s financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate or decrease at a slower rate than the interest rates received on loans and investments, the Corporation’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Although Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates or in the term structure of interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 6A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in this report for further discussion related to the Corporation’s management of interest rate risk. Our Allowance for Loan Losses may not be adequate The Corporation maintains an Allowance for Loan Losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents Management’s best estimate of probable loan losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The Allowance, in the judgment of Management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the Allowance reflects Management’s continuing evaluation of loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political, and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the Allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the Allowance. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s Allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of Management. Real Estate Market Volatility and Future Changes in Disposition Strategies Could Result in Net Proceeds that Differ Significantly from Other Real Estate Owned (“OREO”) Fair Value Appraisals The Corporation’s OREO portfolio consists of properties that it obtained through foreclosure in satisfaction of loans. OREO properties are recorded at the lower of the recorded investment in the loans for which the properties served as collateral or estimated fair value, less estimated selling costs. Generally, in determining fair value an orderly disposition of the property is assumed, except where a different disposition strategy is expected. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of OREO property, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during 2008 and 2009. 16 In response to market conditions and other economic factors, the Corporation may utilize alternative sale strategies other than orderly dispositions as part of its OREO disposition strategy, such as immediate liquidation sales. In this event, as a result of the significant judgments required in estimating fair value and the variables involved in different methods of disposition, the net proceeds realized from such sales transactions could differ significantly from estimates used to determine the fair value of the Corporation’s OREO properties. Turmoil in the Financial Markets Could Result in Lower Fair Values for the Corporation’s Investment Securities Major disruptions in the capital markets experienced in the past year have adversely affected investor demand for all classes of securities and resulted in volatility in the fair values of the Corporation’s investment securities. Significant prolonged reduced investor demand could manifest itself in lower fair values for these securities and may result in recognition of an other-than-temporary impairment. Such impairment could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Is Subject To Environmental Liability Risk Associated With Lending Activities A significant portion of the Corporation’s loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, the Corporation may foreclose on and take title to properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, the Corporation may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Environmental laws may require the Corporation to incur substantial expenses and could materially reduce the affected property’s value or limit the Corporation’s ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase the Corporation’s exposure to environmental liability. Although the Corporation has policies and procedures to perform an environmental review before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these reviews may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation May Be Adversely Affected by the Soundness of Other Financial Institutions Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. The Corporation has exposure to many different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including commercial banks, brokers and dealers, investment banks, and other institutional clients. Many of these transactions expose the Corporation to credit risk in the event of a default by a counterparty or client. Any such losses could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Operates in a Highly Competitive Industry The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include regional and national banks within the Corporation’s market. The Corporation also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, and insurance. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale, and as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. Increased competition could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. 17 The Corporation is Subject to Extensive Government Regulation and Supervision The Corporation is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial products and services, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, financial condition, and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Recent events in the U.S. and global financial markets, including the deterioration of the worldwide credit markets, have created significant challenges for financial institutions both in the United States and around the world. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past year, marked by falling home prices and increasing levels of mortgage foreclosures, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. In light of these current economic conditions, regulatory authorities have been taking actions with respect to the banking industry as a whole, and individual financial institutions in particular, including institutions that are considered well capitalized under applicable regulatory standards. These actions are intended to stabilize and improve the financial condition, risk profile, and capital adequacy of the industry and such financial institutions. Such actions may take the form of an informal understanding or a formal written agreement between the regulatory authority and a financial institution that imposes various requirements on the financial institution. These requirements could include the development of goals, strategies, and plans for improving lending procedures, lowering risk profiles, maintaining specific capital levels, raising capital, and restrictions on dividends, transactions with affiliates, redemption of equity securities, and incurring or refinancing debt. Under applicable laws, the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR have the ability to impose substantial sanctions, restrictions, and requirements on the Bank or the Corporation, if they determine, during an examination or otherwise, that the Bank or the Corporation violated laws or has weaknesses with respect to general standards of safety and soundness. Applicable law prohibits disclosure of specific examination findings by the institution, although formal enforcement actions are routinely disclosed by the regulatory authorities. In May 2009, the Bank agreed to an informal memorandum of understanding with its regulators to establish, among other things, reporting regularly to the regulators about our operations, financial condition, and efforts to mitigate risks. In light of that informal agreement, and due to increased problem assets and decreased capital ratios and earnings, it is likely that formal regulatory action will be imposed in the form of a consent order. The FDIC may require certain corrective steps, impose limits on activities, prescribe lending parameters, and require additional capital to be raised. Failure to adhere to the requirements could result in more severe restrictions. Generally these enforcement actions can be lifted only after subsequent examinations substantiate complete correction of the underlying issues. The US Government has instituted a number of programs designed to increase credit availability, provide liquidity during the crisis and stabilize the banking system, and there may be additional sweeping governmental reform legislation enacted to provide even greater supervision and regulation of the banking and financial service industry over the coming years. It is impossible to predict how these possible reforms may affect our ability to implement our business plans. 18 Overdraft Regulation Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Corporation The Federal Reserve Board has amended Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers) effective July 1, 2010 to require consumers to opt in, or affirmatively consent, to the institution’s overdraft service for ATM and one-time debit card transactions, before overdraft fees may be assessed on the account. Consumers will also be provided a clear disclosure of the fees and terms associated with the institution’s overdraft service. Such change could adversely affect the level of the Corporation’s overdraft fees. The Short-Term and Long-Term Impact of the New Basel II Capital Standards and the Forthcoming New Capital Rules to be Proposed for Non-Basel II U.S. Banks is Uncertain Basel II refers to the results/pronouncements issued by an international committee formed to create an international standard that banking regulators can use when creating regulations about how much capital banks need to put aside to guard against financial and operational risks. The name comes from Basel, Switzerland, the city in which the main international organization, The Bank for International Settlements, is located. Basel II was issued in 2004 and is an update of an earlier accord, Basel I. The concept is to address minimum capital requirements, supervisory review, and market discipline. As a result of the recent deterioration in the global credit markets and the potential impact of increased liquidity risk and interest rate risk, it is unclear what the short-term impact of the implementation of Basel II may be or what impact a pending alternative approach for non-Basel II U.S. banks may have on the cost and availability of different types of credit and the potential compliance costs of implementing the new capital standards. The Level of the Commercial Real Estate Loan Portfolio May Subject the Corporation to Additional Regulatory Scrutiny The FDIC, the Federal Reserve Board, and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency have promulgated joint guidance on sound risk management practices for financial institutions with concentrations in commercial real estate lending. Under the guidance, a financial institution that is actively involved in commercial real estate lending should perform a risk assessment to identify concentrations. A financial institution may have a concentration in commercial real estate lending if, among other factors, (i) total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land represent 100% or more of total capital or (ii) total reported loans secured by multifamily and non-farm non-residential properties, loans for construction, land development, and other land loans otherwise sensitive to the general commercial real estate market, including loans to commercial real estate related entities, represent 300% or more of total capital and increased by 50% or more during the prior 36 months. The joint guidance requires heightened risk management practices including board and management oversight and strategic planning, development of underwriting standards, risk assessment, and monitoring through market analysis and stress testing. As of December 31, 2009, the Bank did not meet the level of concentration in commercial real estate lending activity that would indicate a need under the regulatory guidance for increased risk assessment. The Corporation’s Information Systems May Experience an Interruption or Breach in Security The Corporation relies heavily on communications and information systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption, or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in the Corporation’s customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan, or other systems. The Corporation has policies and procedures expressly designed to prevent or limit the effect of a failure, interruption, or security breach of its systems. However, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions, or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that the impact will not be substantial. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions, or security breaches of the Corporation’s systems could damage the Corporation’s reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject the Corporation to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose the Corporation to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. 19 The Corporation Is Dependent Upon Outside Third Parties for Processing and Handling of Corporation Records and Data The Corporation relies on software developed by third party vendors to process various Corporation transactions. In some cases, the Corporation has contracted with third parties to run its proprietary software on behalf of the Corporation. These systems include, but are not limited to, general ledger, payroll, employee benefits, trust record keeping, loan and deposit processing, merchant processing, and securities portfolio management. While the Corporation performs a review of controls instituted by the vendor over these programs in accordance with industry standards and performs its own testing of user controls, the Corporation must rely on the continued maintenance of these controls by the outside party, including safeguards over the security of customer data. In addition, the Corporation maintains backups of key processing output daily in the event of a failure on the part of any of these systems. Nonetheless, the Corporation may incur a temporary disruption in its ability to conduct its business or process its transactions, or incur damage to its reputation if the third party vendor fails to adequately maintain internal controls or institute necessary changes to systems. Such disruption or breach of security may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Continually Encounters Technological Change The banking and financial services industry continually undergoes technological changes, with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving customers better, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. The Corporation’s future success will depend, in part, on its ability to address the needs of its customers by using technology to provide products and services that enhance customer convenience and that create additional efficiencies in the Corporation’s operations. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have greater resources to invest in technological improvements, and the Corporation may not effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or do so as quickly, which could reduce its ability to effectively compete. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, its financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation Is Subject To Claims and Litigation Pertaining to Fiduciary Responsibility and other Legal Risks From time to time, customers and others make claims and take legal action pertaining to our performance of fiduciary responsibilities. If such claims and legal actions are not resolved in our favor, they may result in significant financial liability and/or adversely affect the market perception of us and our products and services as well as customer demand for those products and services. Any financial liability or reputation damage could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Consumers and Businesses May Decide Not to Use Banks to Complete Their Financial Transactions Technology and other changes are allowing parties to complete financial transactions that historically have involved banks at one or both ends of the transaction. For example, consumers can now pay bills and transfer funds directly without banks. This could result in the loss of fee income as well as the loss of customer deposits and income generated from those deposits and could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation’s Controls and Procedures May Fail or Be Circumvented Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls, and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. 20 Financial Services Companies Depend Upon the Accuracy and Completeness of Information about Customers and Counterparties In deciding whether to extend credit or enter into other transactions, the Corporation may rely on information furnished by or on behalf of customers and counterparties, including financial statements, credit reports and other financial information. The Corporation may also rely on representations of those customers, counterparties or other third parties, such as independent auditors, as to the accuracy and completeness of that information. Reliance on inaccurate or misleading financial statements, credit reports or other financial information could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business and, in turn, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation and Its Subsidiaries May Not Be Able To Realize the Benefit of Deferred Tax Assets The Corporation records deferred tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The deferred tax assets can be recognized in future periods dependent upon a number of factors, including the ability to realize the asset through carry back or carry forward to taxable income in prior or future years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. If the Corporation is not able to recognize deferred tax assets in future periods, it could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject To Changes in Federal and State Tax Laws and Changes in Interpretation of Existing Laws The Corporation’s financial performance is impacted by federal and state tax laws. Given the current economic and political environment, and ongoing state budgetary pressures, the enactment of new federal or state tax legislation may occur. The enactment of such legislation, or changes in the interpretation of existing law, including provisions impacting tax rates, apportionment, consolidation or combination, income, expenses, and credits, may have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation and Its Subsidiaries Are Subject To Changes in Accounting Principles, Policies, or Guidelines The Corporation’s financial performance is impacted by accounting principles, policies, and guidelines. Changes in these are continuously occurring, and given the current economic environment, more drastic changes may occur. The implementation of such changes could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. The Corporation May Not Be Able to Attract and Retain Skilled People The successful operation of the Corporation and the Bank will be greatly influenced by the Corporation’s and the Bank’s ability to retain the services of their existing senior management and, to attract and retain qualified additional senior and middle management. The unexpected loss of the services of any of the key management personnel, or the inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel in the future, could have an adverse effect on the Corporation’s and the Bank’s business and financial results. The Corporation Is a Bank Holding Corporation and Its Sources of Funds Are Limited The Corporation is a bank holding company, and its operations are primarily conducted by the Bank, which is subject to significant federal and state regulation. Cash available to pay dividends to stockholders of the Corporation is derived primarily from dividends received from the Bank. The Corporation’s ability to receive dividends or loans from its subsidiaries is restricted. Dividend payments by the Bank to the Corporation in the future will require generation of future earnings by the Bank and could require regulatory approval if the proposed dividend is in excess of prescribed guidelines. Further, the Corporation’s right to participate in the assets of the Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization, or otherwise will be subject to the claims of the Bank’s creditors, including depositors, which will take priority. Under the terms of the Bank’s MOU with the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR the Bank is presently prohibited from the payment of dividends without the consent of the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR. 21 The Corporation Could Experience an Unexpected Inability to Obtain Needed Liquidity The Corporation and the Bank may be unable to continue to obtain adequate sources of funding and liquidity at current rates, which would adversely affect the spread between interest earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities. The Bank’s profitability depends in large part upon the amount of the spread between interest earned on assets and interest paid on liabilities, including deposits. A decrease in this spread will result in a decrease in profitability and, eventually, losses. A decrease in the Bank’s profitability likely would impair the ability of the Bank to pay dividends to the Corporation. The unavailability of adequate funding sources harms the Corporation and the Bank in other ways as well. The Corporation and the Bank must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support their operations and to fund outstanding liabilities. The Bank derives liquidity through, among other things, deposit growth and maturity and sale of investment securities and loans. If these funding sources are not sufficient, the Corporation and the Bank may have to acquire funds through higher-cost sources or may not be able to access funding at all. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts of War or Terrorism and Other External Events Could Significantly Impact the Corporation’s Business Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on the Corporation’s ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of the Corporation’s deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, reduce the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause the Corporation to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and results of operations. Managing Reputational Risk Is Important To Attracting and Maintaining Customers, Investors, and Employees Threats to the Corporation’s reputation can come from many sources, including adverse sentiment about financial institutions generally, unethical practices, employee misconduct, failure to deliver minimum standards of service or quality, compliance deficiencies, and questionable or fraudulent activities of our customers. The Corporation has policies and procedures in place that seek to protect our reputation and promote ethical conduct. Nonetheless, negative publicity may arise regarding the Corporation’s business, employees, or customers, with or without merit, and could result in the loss of customers, investors, and employees; costly litigation; a decline in revenues; and increased governmental regulation. Risks Associated With the Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation’s Stock Price Can Be Volatile Stock price volatility may make it more difficult for you to resell your common stock when you want and at prices you find attractive. The Corporation’s stock price can fluctuate significantly in response to a variety of factors including: · Actual or anticipated variations in quarterly results of operations; · Recommendations by securities analysts; · Operating and stock price performance of other companies that investors deem comparable to the Corporation; · News reports relating to trends, concerns, and other issues in the financial services industry; · Perceptions in the marketplace regarding the Corporation and/or its competitors; · New technology used or services offered by competitors; · Significant acquisitions or business combinations, strategic partnerships, joint venture, or capital commitments by or involving the Corporation or its competitors; · Failure to integrate acquisitions or realize anticipated benefits from acquisitions; · Changes in government regulations; and 22 · Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism or military conflicts. General market fluctuations, industry factors, and general economic and political conditions and events, such as economic slowdowns or recessions, interest rate changes, or credit loss trends, could also cause the Corporation’s stock price to decrease regardless of operating results. The Trading Volume In the Corporation’s Common Stock Is Less Than That Of Other Larger Financial Services Institutions Although the Corporation’s common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Select stock market, the trading volume in its common stock is less than that of other, larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity, and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of the Corporation’s common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which the Corporation has no control. Given the low trading volume of the Corporation’s common stock, significant sales of the Corporation’s common stock, or the expectation of these sales could cause the Corporation’s common stock price to fall. An Investment In the Corporation’s Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit The Corporation’s common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund, or by any other public or private entity. Investment in the Corporation’s common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire the Corporation’s common stock, you could lose some or all of your investment. The Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation, By-Laws, As Well As Certain Banking Laws May Have an Anti-Takeover Effect Provisions of the Corporation’s Articles of Incorporation and By-laws, and federal banking laws, including regulatory approval requirements ,could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire the Corporation, even if doing so would be perceived to be beneficial by the Corporation’s stockholders. The combination of these provisions may inhibit a non-negotiated merger or other business combination, which, in turn, could adversely affect the market price of the Corporation’s common stock. The Corporation May Issue Additional Securities, Which Could Dilute the Ownership Percentage of Holders of the Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation may issue additional securities to raise additional capital or finance acquisitions or upon the exercise or conversion of outstanding options, and, if it does, the ownership percentage of holders of the Corporation’s common stock could be diluted. The Corporation Cannot Assure You of Its Ability to Pay Dividends in the Future The Corporation suspended the payment of dividends on August 27, 2009. The Corporation does not have any plans to reintroduce its quarterly dividend in the near future. The Corporation relies on dividends from the Bank to pay dividends to shareholders and the Bank is presently prohibited under the terms of its MOU with the FDIC and the Michigan OFIR from paying any dividends without regulatory permission. In addition, the Federal Reserve has issued Federal Reserve Supervision and Regulation Letter SR-09-4, which requires bank holding companies to inform and consult with Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring and paying a dividend that exceeds earnings for the period for which the dividend is being paid. Under this regulation, if the Corporation experiences losses in a series of consecutive quarters, it may be required to inform and consult with the Federal Reserve supervisory staff prior to declaring or paying any dividends. In this event, there can be no assurance that the Corporation’s regulators will approve the payment of such dividends. 23 Any Corporation Debt Obligations and any Senior Equity Securities will have Priority over the Corporation’s Common Stock with Respect to Payment in the Event of Liquidation, Dissolution, or Winding-Up and with Respect to the Payment of Dividends In any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the Corporation’s common stock would rank below all debt claims against the Corporation and claims of any other senior equity securities. As a result, holders of the Corporation’s common stock will not be entitled to receive any payment or other distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up of the Corporation until after all of the Corporation’s obligations to the Corporation’s debt holders have been satisfied and holders of senior equity securities have received any payment or distribution due to them. Offerings of Debt, Which Would be Senior to the Corporation’s Common Stock upon Liquidation, and/or Preferred Equity Securities, Which may be Senior to the Corporation’s Common Stock for Purposes of Dividend Distributions or upon Liquidation, may Adversely Affect the Market Price of the Corporation’s Common Stock The Corporation may attempt to increase the Corporation’s capital, or the Bank could be forced to raise additional capital by making additional offerings of debt or preferred equity securities, including trust preferred securities, senior or subordinated notes, and preferred stock. The Corporation may also decide to raise additional capital by issuing debt or preferred equity securities for other reasons. Upon liquidation, holders of the Corporation’s debt securities and shares of preferred stock and lenders with respect to other borrowings will receive distributions of the Corporation’s available assets prior to the holders of the Corporation’s common stock. Additional equity offerings may dilute the holdings of the Corporation’s existing stockholders or reduce the market price of the Corporation’s common stock, or both. Holders of the Corporation’s common stock are not entitled to preemptive rights or other protections against dilution. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 