ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should consider the following risk factors, in addition to the other information presented or incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in evaluating our business and your investment in us. The Company’s common stock involves a high degree of risk. Investors and potential investors should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this report, before making investment decisions about shares of our common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties facing the Company in the future. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently considered to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect the Company’s business operations or the stock price of the Company’s common stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occurs, the Company’s business, financial condition, operating results and future growth prospects could materially suffer. In that event, the trading price of your securities could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risk Related to Our Business and Industry Our past results may not be indicative of future results, and, therefore, we may be unable to continue to grow at our historical growth rates. Sajan, Inc. began selling language translation services utilizing its proprietary technology in 2002 and generated only nominal revenues during that year. From 2003 to 2010, however, revenue increased more rapidly. The annual revenues of Sajan, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2009 were approximately $12.7 million and increased to $16.0 million in the year ended December 31, 2010, and to approximately $20.9 million in the year ended December 31, 2011. Revenues in the year ended December 31, 2012 were approximately $20.5 million. We experienced rapid revenue growth from 2009 through 2011 and revenue in 2012 was essentially the same as in 2011. Increasing revenues by growing our business operation under the Sajan name is a key component of our strategy. These expansion plans have placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management, operational and financial resources. You should not consider revenue growth in 2009-2011 as indicative of our future performance. In future periods, we may not have any revenue growth, or our revenues could decline. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may incur operating losses in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2012, Sajan reported a loss from operations of $1.1 million. For the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, Sajan reported a loss from operations of $0.4 million and $3.0 million, respectively. Throughout most of our history, we have experienced net losses and negative cash flows from operations. We expect our operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our operations. Furthermore, as a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. If our revenues do not grow to offset these increased expenses, we may not be profitable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to achieve or maintain profitability. We may need additional financing in the future, which may not be available, and any such financing will likely dilute our existing stockholders. In 2012, Sajan entered into a one-year, $1.5 million credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank and had borrowed $400,000 as of December 31, 2012 under that facility. In March 2013, we entered into a two-year $1.5 million credit facility with Silicon Valley Bank, which replaced the original $1.5 million credit facility. We may require additional financing in the future, which could be sought from a number of sources, including, but not limited to, additional sales of equity or debt securities or loans from banks or other financial institutions. There can be no certainty that any such financing will be available to us or, if available, on terms favorable to us. If additional funds are raised by the issuance of our equity securities, such as through the issuance of stock, convertible securities, or the issuance and exercise of warrants, then the ownership interests of our existing stockholders will be diluted and our ability to utilize accumulated net operating loss carryforwards could be impaired or terminated. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt or other instruments, we may become subject to certain operational limitations, and such securities may have rights senior to those of our common stock. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our operations or the expansion of our business. Our failure to obtain any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our business strategy and on our financial performance and stock price, and could require us to delay or abandon our growth strategy. - 12 - We do not have long-term contracts with our customers who provide us with recurring revenue, and our success will depend on our ability to maintain a high level of customer satisfaction and a strong reputation in the global multilingual content delivery industry. Our contracts with our customers who provide us with recurring revenue typically allow the customer to cancel the contract for any reason with 30 days’ prior notice to us. Our continued success therefore depends significantly on our ability to meet or exceed the expectations of these customers because most of such customers do not make long-term commitments to use our solutions. In addition, if our reputation in the global multilingual content delivery industry is harmed or diminished for any reason, this may cause our recurring revenue customers to terminate their relationships with us on short notice and seek alternative globalization and translation solutions. If a significant number of recurring revenue customers terminate their relationships with us, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be adversely affected in a short period of time. We rely on a limited number of customers, and the loss of or reduction in revenue from a major customer could negatively affect our business, financial condition and operations. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from a limited number of large customers. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, our largest customer accounted for approximately 18% and 11%, respectively, of our revenue, and, on a combined basis, our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 57% and 53%, respectively, of our revenue. As a result of the concentration of our revenue to a limited number of customers, we have experienced fluctuations in collection of our revenues. The loss of any major customer or a significant reduction in a large customer’s use of our language translation solutions could materially reduce our revenue and cash flow and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operations. Continued global economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue, lengthen our sales cycle and make it difficult for us to forecast operating results accurately. Our revenues depend significantly on general economic conditions and the health of large companies that sell products internationally. Economic weakness and constrained globalization spending may result in slower growth or reductions in our revenues and gross profits in 2013. We have experienced, and may experience in the future, reduced spending in our business due to the current financial turmoil affecting the U.S. and global economy and other macroeconomic factors affecting spending behavior. Uncertainty about future economic conditions makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. In addition, economic conditions or uncertainty may cause current and potential customers to reduce or delay globalization expenditures, including purchases of our solutions. Our sales cycle may lengthen if purchasing decisions are delayed as a result of uncertain information technology or contracted development budgets or if contract negotiations become more protracted or difficult as customers institute additional internal approvals for globalization and information technology purchases. Delays or reductions in globalization and information technology spending could have a material adverse effect on demand for our software and services, and consequently on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to attract new customers or sell additional solutions, or if our customers do not increase their use of our solutions, our revenue growth and profitability will be adversely affected. To increase our revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, we must regularly add new customers and sell additional solutions, and our customers must increase their use of our solutions they currently utilize. We intend to grow our business by hiring additional inside sales personnel and increasing our marketing activities. If we are unable to hire or retain quality sales personnel, convert customer prospects into paying customers, or ensure the effectiveness of our marketing programs, or if our existing or new customers do not perceive our solutions to be of sufficiently high value and quality, we might not be able to increase sales, and our operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, if we fail to sell our new solutions to existing or new customers, we will not generate anticipated revenues from these solutions, our operating results will suffer and we might be unable to grow our revenues or achieve or maintain profitability. - 13 - Our strategy includes pursuing acquisitions, and our potential inability to successfully integrate newly-acquired companies, businesses or technologies may adversely affect our financial results. Late in 2011 we acquired New Global. We believe part of our growth will be driven by acquisitions of other companies or their businesses or technologies. If we complete other acquisitions, we face many risks commonly encountered with growth through acquisitions, including: ·incurring significantly higher than anticipated capital expenditures and operating expenses; ·failing to assimilate the operations and personnel of the acquired company or business; ·loss of customers that were obtained in the acquisition; ·disrupting our ongoing business; ·dissipating our management resources; ·failing to maintain uniform standards, controls and policies; and ·impairing relationships with employees and customers as a result of changes in management. Fully integrating other acquired companies, business or technology into our operations may take a significant amount of time. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in overcoming these risks or any other problems encountered with acquisitions. To the extent we do not successfully avoid or overcome the risks or problems related to any acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Future acquisitions also could impact our financial position and capital needs, and could cause substantial fluctuations in our quarterly and yearly results of operations. In addition, future acquisitions could include significant goodwill and intangible assets, which may result in future amortization or impairment charges that would reduce our stated earnings. Our inability to adapt to rapid technological change could impair our ability to remain competitive. The global multilingual content delivery industry in which we compete is characterized by rapid technological change, introductions of new products and evolving industry standards. Our ability to attract new customers and increase revenues from customers will depend in significant part on our ability to anticipate industry standards and to continue to enhance existing solutions or introduce or acquire new solutions on a timely basis to keep pace with technological developments. The success of any enhancement or new solution depends on several factors, including the timely completion, introduction and market acceptance of any enhancement to our solution. Any new solution we develop or acquire might not be introduced in a timely or cost-effective manner and might not achieve the broad market acceptance necessary to generate significant revenues. If any of our competitors implements new technologies before we are able to implement them, those competitors may be able to provide more effective solutions than ours at lower prices. Any delay or failure in the introduction of new or enhanced solutions could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. - 14 - Our business may be harmed by defects or errors in the services we provide to customers. Many of the services we provide are critical to the business operations of our customers. While we maintain general liability insurance, including coverage for errors and omissions, defects or errors in the services we provide could interrupt our customers’ abilities to provide products and services to their customers, resulting in delayed or lost revenue. This could damage our reputation through negative publicity, make it difficult to attract new and retain existing customers, and cause customers to terminate our contracts and seek damages. We may incur additional costs to correct errors or defects. There can be no assurance that our general liability and errors and omissions insurance coverage will be available in amounts sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurer will not disclaim coverage as to any future claims. An interruption or failure of our information technology and communications systems could impair our ability to effectively provide our services, which could damage our reputation and business. The provision of our services depends on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems. Any damage to or failure of our systems could result in interruptions in our services. Interruptions in our services could reduce our revenues and profits, and the Sajan brand could be damaged if people believe our system is unreliable. Our systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from terrorist attacks, floods, tornados, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, computer viruses or attempts to harm our systems. Our data centers may be subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism, and to other potential disruptions. Some of our systems may not be fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be able to account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision to close a facility we are using without adequate notice for financial reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our data centers could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. Any unscheduled interruption in our service will put a burden on the entire organization and would result in an immediate loss of revenue. If we experience frequent or persistent system failures on our web site, our reputation and the Sajan brand could be permanently harmed. The steps required to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, will reduce our operating margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. The intellectual property of our customers may be damaged, misappropriated, stolen, or lost while in our possession, subjecting us to litigation and other adverse consequences. In the course of providing globalization and language translation services to our customers, we take possession of or are granted access to certain intellectual property of our customers. If such intellectual property is damaged, misappropriated, stolen, or lost, we could suffer, among other consequences: ·claims under indemnification provisions in customer agreements or other liability for damages; ·delayed or lost revenue due to adverse customer reaction; ·negative publicity; and ·litigation that could be costly and time consuming. Any adverse impact attributable to any of the foregoing factors would have a material adverse effect on our business and revenues. We rely on third parties for key aspects of the process of providing services to our customers, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by these third parties could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. We rely on third-party vendors, including data center and bandwidth providers, and we also rely on third parties for key aspects of the process of providing language translation services to our customers. Our revenues and margins are subject to our ability to continue to maintain satisfactory relationships with freelance linguists, who are in high demand worldwide for specific languages. Any disruption in the network access or co-location services provided by these third-party providers or any failure of these third-party providers and freelance linguists to handle current or higher volumes of use could significantly harm our business. Any financial or other difficulties the providers face may have negative effects on our business, the nature and extent of which cannot be predicted. We exercise little control over these third party vendors, which increases our vulnerability to problems with the services they provide. We also license technology and related databases from third parties to facilitate aspects of our translation processes and our data center and connectivity operations including, among others, Internet traffic management and search services. Any errors, failures, interruptions or delays experienced in connection with these third-party technologies and information services could negatively impact our relationships with customers and adversely affect the Sajan brand, and could expose us to liabilities to third parties. - 15 - Evolving regulation of the Internet may increase our expenditures related to compliance efforts, which may adversely affect our financial condition. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign agencies becomes more likely. We are particularly sensitive to these risks because the Internet is a critical component of our on-demand business model. In addition, taxation of services provided over the Internet or other charges imposed by government agencies or by private organizations for accessing the Internet may be imposed. Any regulation imposing greater fees for Internet use or restricting information exchange over the Internet could result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based services, which could harm our business. We depend on intellectual property rights to protect proprietary technologies, although we may not be able to successfully protect these rights. We rely on our proprietary technology to enhance our software and service offerings. We use a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law in addition to contractual restrictions to protect our technology. Although we have received a patent from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office covering certain aspects of our technology, there can be no assurance that this patent will adequately protect our technology or provide us with a competitive advantage. We may apply for patent protection on our future technology developments to the extent we believe such protection is available and economically warranted. However, there is no assurance that we will file additional applications for patent protection in the United States or in other countries, that any application that we may file will result in an issued patent, or that any issued patent will provide us with a competitive advantage. We have not filed any applications for patent protection in any country other than the United States. As a result, we do not have the right to enforce our rights under any United States patent, if issued, in any foreign country, or to prevent others in foreign countries from utilizing the proprietary technology covered by our patents. Despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that others will not independently develop technology that is similar to our technology, or offer or sell products or services in foreign countries that utilize our technology. The development by others of technology that is similar to our technology, or the sale of products or services in foreign countries that incorporate our technology, would harm our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may be involved in disputes from time to time relating to our intellectual property and the intellectual property of third parties. We may become parties to disputes from time to time over rights and obligations concerning intellectual property, and we may not prevail in these disputes. Third parties may raise claims against us alleging infringement or violation of the intellectual property of that third party. Some third party intellectual property rights may be extremely broad, and it may not be possible for us to conduct our operations in such a way as to avoid violating those intellectual property rights. Any such intellectual property claim could subject us to costly litigation and impose a significant strain on our financial resources and management personnel regardless of whether such claim has merit. Our liability insurance, if any, may not cover potential claims of this type adequately or at all, and we may be required to alter products or pay monetary damages or license fees to third parties, which could have a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. - 16 - Our ability to use our U.S. net operating loss carryforwards might be limited or eliminated. As of December 31, 2012, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $31.2 million, which are potentially available for U.S. federal tax purposes. These loss carryforwards expire between 2015 and 2030. To the extent these net operating loss carryforwards are available, we intend to use them to reduce any corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. Section 382 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone significant changes in stock ownership. As a result, prior or future changes in ownership could put limitations on or eliminate the availability of our net operating loss carryforwards to offset any profit. Rules governing the use of net operating loss carryforwards are complex, and any use of our net operating loss carryforwards could be challenged given our change of control in 2007 and 2010. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards is significantly limited or eliminated, any income generated by us could be subject to corporate income tax earlier than if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards, which could result in lower profit. Future changes of control may result in additional expiration of a portion of the remaining net operating loss carryforward before it can be used. The use of our carryforward is dependent upon our ability to attain profitable operations in the future. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive, and our failure to compete successfully would make it difficult for us to add and retain customers and would reduce or impede the growth of our business. The markets for global multilingual content delivery software and services are increasingly competitive and global. We expect competition to increase in the future both from existing competitors and new companies that may enter our markets. In addition to our existing competitors, we may face competition in the future from companies that do not currently offer globalization or translation services. We may also face competition from internal globalization departments of Fortune 1000 and large emerging companies. Technology companies, information technology services companies, business process outsourcing companies, web consulting firms, technical support call centers, hosting companies and content management providers may choose to broaden their range of services to include globalization or language translation as they expand their operations internationally. Increased competition could result in pricing pressure, reduced sales, lower margins or the failure of our solutions to achieve or maintain broad market acceptance. New or established competitors may offer solutions that are superior to or lower in price than ours. We may not have sufficient resources to continue the investments in all areas of software development and marketing needed to maintain our competitive position. In addition, some of our competitors are better capitalized than us, which may provide them with an advantage in developing, marketing or servicing new solutions. Increased competition could reduce our market share, revenues and operating margins, increase our costs of operations and otherwise adversely affect our business. If we fail to retain our Chief Executive Officer and other key personnel, our business would be harmed and we might not be able to implement our business plan successfully. Given the complex nature of the technology on which our business is based and the speed with which such technology advances, our future success is dependent, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified managerial, technical and sales personnel. In particular, Shannon Zimmerman, our President, Chief Executive Officer, and Chief Financial Officer, is critical to the management of our business and operations. Competition for talented personnel is intense, and we cannot be certain that we can retain our managerial, technical and sales personnel or that we can attract, assimilate or retain such personnel in the future. Our inability to attract and retain such personnel could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, our current President and Chief Executive Officer is also our Chief Financial Officer. While we have a full-time Controller and believe our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are effective, our lack of a separate full-time Chief Financial Officer could hinder our ability to prepare consolidated financial statements and notes to consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP or to review the financial and other information prepared by external consultants and professionals to ensure accuracy and completeness. - 17 - Our continued growth could strain our personnel resources and infrastructure, and if we are unable to implement appropriate controls and procedures to manage our growth, we will not be able to implement our business plan successfully. We have experienced a period of rapid growth in our headcount and operations. To the extent that we are able to sustain such growth, it will place a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our senior management to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to hire, train and manage new employees as needed. If our new hires perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business would be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls and our reporting systems and procedures. The additional headcount we are adding will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to execute our business plan. Because our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to expand the sales of our solutions to customers located outside of the United States, our business will be susceptible to risks associated with international operations. We have limited experience operating in foreign jurisdictions. In 2009, we opened Sajan Software in Dublin, Ireland, in 2010 we opened Sajan, Spain and in 2011 we opened Sajan, Singapore. Our inexperience in operating our business outside of North America increases the risk that our current and any future international expansion efforts will not be successful. Conducting international operations subjects us to risks that, generally, we have not faced in the United States, including: ·fluctuations in currency exchange rates; ·unexpected changes in foreign regulatory requirements; ·longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; ·difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; ·potentially adverse tax consequences, including the complexities of foreign value-added tax systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; ·the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws and different legal standards, including laws and regulations related to privacy; ·increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; ·political, social and economic instability abroad, and terrorist attacks and security concerns in general; and ·reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. The occurrence of any one of these risks could negatively affect our international business and, consequently, our results of operations generally. Additionally, operating in international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. We cannot be certain that the investment and additional resources required in establishing, acquiring, operating or integrating operations in other countries will produce desired levels of revenues or profitability. Our management has limited experience operating as a public company. The members of our current management have limited experience operating a public company. We may not be able to operate successfully as a public company, even if our business operations are successful. Our inability to successfully operate as a public company could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and on our ability to obtain equity or debt financing. - 18 - Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock An active trading market in our common stock may not develop or be adequately maintained, and our common stock may be subject to volatile price and volume fluctuations. An active trading market in our common stock may not develop or be adequately maintained. Shares of our common stock are quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board Market system and are not listed on any stock exchange, which may limit your ability to sell your shares of our common stock. The overall market for securities in recent years has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies. These fluctuations have been extremely volatile and are often unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. Consequently, you may not be able to sell our common stock at prices equal to or greater than the price you paid for your shares. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this section, many factors, most of which are outside of our control, could cause the market price of our common stock to decrease significantly, including: ·variations in our quarterly operating results; ·decreases in market valuations of similar companies; ·the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates by analysts who cover us, our competitors or our industry; and ·fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes. These broad market fluctuations could result in extreme fluctuations in the price of our common stock, which could cause a decline in the value of our common stock. Our quarterly results of operations may fluctuate in the future, which could result in volatility in our stock price. Our quarterly revenues and results of operations have varied in the past and may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors. If our quarterly revenues or results of operations fluctuate, the price of our common stock could decline substantially. Fluctuations in our results of operations may be due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to, those listed below and identified throughout this “Risk Factors” section: ·our ability to retain and increase sales to current customers and attract new customers, including our ability to maintain and increase our number of recurring revenue customers; ·the timing and success of introductions of new solutions or upgrades by us or our competitors; ·the strength of the economy, in particular as it affects globalization activity; ·changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; ·changes in the payment terms for our products and services; ·the need for, and availability of, additional financing to support operations; ·competition, including entry into the industry by new competitors and new offerings by existing competitors; and ·the amount and timing of expenditures related to operating as a public company, expanding our operations, research and development, acquisitions, or introducing new solutions. - 19 - Due to these and other factors, you should not rely on quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our results of operations as an indication of our future performance. We may be unable to cause our securities to be listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, which could limit investors’ ability to make transactions in our securities and subject stockholders to additional trading restrictions. We intend to continue to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board Market until such time we satisfy the relevant listing requirements to have our common stock listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or the NASDAQ Capital Market. However, there can be no assurance we will ever be able to meet NASDAQ’s initial listing requirements, in which case our securities may continue to be listed on the OTC Bulletin Board Market indefinitely. If we are unable to cause our securities to be listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market, we and our stockholders could face significant material adverse consequences, including: ·a limited availability of market quotations for our securities; ·a determination that our common stock is a “penny stock,” which will require brokers trading in our common stock to adhere to more stringent rules, possibly resulting in a reduced level of trading activity in the secondary trading market for our common stock; ·a limited amount of news and analyst coverage; and ·a decreased ability to issue additional securities or obtain additional financing in the future. Current members of our management own a significant percentage of the outstanding shares of our common stock, which could limit other stockholders’ influence on corporate matters. Shannon Zimmerman and Angela Zimmerman, who are directors and executive officers, collectively own approximately 32.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. Accordingly, these individuals are able to exert substantial influence over our affairs, including the election and removal of directors and all other matters requiring stockholder approval, including the future merger, consolidation or sale of our company. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover, or other change-of-control transactions that may otherwise be beneficial to our stockholders. Furthermore, this concentrated control will limit the practical effect of the stockholders’ participation in our corporate matters, through stockholder votes and otherwise. As a result, the return on your investment in our common stock through the sale of your shares could be adversely affected. Provisions in our charter documents, our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, and Delaware law may inhibit a takeover, which could limit the price potential investors might be willing to pay in the future for our common stock and could entrench management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan contain provisions that may discourage unsolicited takeover proposals that stockholders may consider to be in our best interests. Our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock which could be issued to create different or greater voting rights which may affect an acquiror’s ability to gain control of our company. Our Tax Benefit Preservation Plan, which is designed to protect our stockholder value and safeguard valuable tax attributes by reducing the likelihood of an unintended ownership change, could also discourage a change of control. As a Delaware corporation, we are subject to anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law, which could delay or prevent a change of control. Together, these provisions may make it more difficult to remove management and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our shares. - 20 - Our certificate of incorporation grants our board of directors the power to designate and issue additional shares of common and preferred stock. Pursuant to authority granted by our certificate of incorporation, our board of directors, without any action by our stockholders, may designate and issue shares in such classes or series (including classes or series of preferred stock) as it deems appropriate, and establish the rights, preferences, and privileges of such shares, including dividends, liquidation, and voting rights. The rights of holders of other classes or series of preferred stock that may be issued could be superior to the rights of our common stock. The designation and issuance of shares of capital stock having preferential rights could adversely affect other rights appurtenant to the shares of our common stock. Any issuances of additional capital stock (common or preferred), will dilute the percentage of ownership interest of our stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws limit directors’ liability to stockholders. As permitted by Delaware law, our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide that each director shall have no personal liability for monetary damages for any breach of fiduciary duties to us, subject to certain exceptions. These provisions may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation against directors and may discourage stockholders from bringing a lawsuit against directors for any breach of our fiduciary duties. We do not intend to pay dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain all future earnings for the operation and expansion of our business and, therefore, do not anticipate declaring or paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future. Any payment of cash dividends on our common stock will be at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend upon our results of operations, earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, future prospects, contractual restrictions and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. Therefore, you should not expect to receive dividend income from shares of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 