Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following risk factors as well as other information in this report before investing in any of our securities. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Relating to the Proposed Merger with GigOptix Because the conversion ratio is not adjustable based on the market price of either GigOptix or Endwave common stock, you cannot be sure of the value of the merger consideration that you will receive. The number of shares of common stock to be issued by GigOptix in the merger is not adjustable based on the market price of either GigOptix or Endwave common stock and the merger agreement may not be terminated as a result of any such changes. The market value of the shares of GigOptix common stock that Endwave stockholders will be entitled to receive when the merger is completed will depend on the market value of shares of GigOptix common stock at that time, which could vary significantly from the market value of shares of GigOptix common stock on the date the merger agreement was executed, the date of this report or the date of the special meeting. Accordingly, at the time of the special meeting, Endwave stockholders will not know or be able to calculate the market value of the consideration they would receive upon completion of the merger. These variations may result from, among other factors, changes in the business, operations, results and prospects of GigOptix, market expectations of the likelihood that the merger will be completed and the timing of completion, the prospects of post-merger operations, the effect of any conditions or restrictions imposed on or proposed with respect to GigOptix by regulatory agencies and authorities, general market and economic conditions and other factors. 13 Table of Contents GigOptix may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. GigOptix’ future success will depend in significant part on its ability to utilize Endwave’s cash and cash equivalents and to realize the cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities that it expects to result from the integration of the GigOptix and Endwave businesses. GigOptix’ operating results and financial condition will be adversely affected if GigOptix is unable to integrate successfully the operations of GigOptix and Endwave, fails to achieve or achieve on a timely basis such cost savings, operating efficiencies and new revenue opportunities, or incurs unforeseen costs and expenses or experiences unexpected operating difficulties that offset anticipated cost savings or Endwave’s cash and cash equivalents, in whole or in part. In particular, the integration of GigOptix and Endwave may involve, among other matters, integration of sales, marketing, billing, accounting, manufacturing, engineering, management, personnel, payroll, quality control, regulatory compliance, network infrastructure and other systems and operating hardware and software, some of which may be incompatible and therefore may need to be replaced. Any cost savings estimates expected to result from the merger do not include one-time adjustments that GigOptix will record in connection with the merger. In addition, any such estimates will be based upon assumptions by the managements of GigOptix and Endwave concerning a number of factors, including operating efficiencies, the consolidation of functions, and the integration of operations, systems, marketing methods and procedures. These assumptions are uncertain and are subject to significant business, economic and competitive conditions that are difficult to predict and often beyond the control of management. Endwave will be subject to business uncertainties and contractual restrictions while the merger is pending that could adversely affect its business. Uncertainty about the effect of the merger on employees and customers may have an adverse effect on Endwave and consequently on GigOptix following the merger. These uncertainties may impair each company’s ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the merger is completed and for a period of time thereafter, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with Endwave to seek to change existing business relationships with Endwave. Employee retention may be particularly challenging during the pendency of the merger, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with Endwave. If, despite Endwave’s retention efforts, key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or a desire not to remain with Endwave, Endwave’s business and consequently the business of GigOptix following the merger could be seriously harmed. Failure to complete the merger could negatively affect GigOptix and Endwave. If the merger is not completed for any reason, GigOptix and Endwave may be subject to a number of material risks, including the following: • the companies will not realize the benefits expected from becoming part of a combined company, including a potentially enhanced competitive and financial position; • the trading price of each company’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price of the common stock reflects a market assumption that the merger will be completed; and • some costs related to the merger, such as legal, accounting and some financial advisory fees, must be paid even if the merger is not completed. Endwave’s ability to pursue alternatives to the merger is restricted. The merger agreement contains customary “no-solicitation” covenants pursuant to which neither Endwave nor GigOptix is permitted to solicit any alternative acquisition proposals, provide any information to any person in connection with any alternative acquisition proposal, participate in any discussions or negotiations relating to any alternative acquisition proposal, approve, endorse or recommend any alternative acquisition proposal, or enter into any agreement relating to any alternative acquisition proposal. The “no-solicitation” provision is subject to certain exceptions that permit the board of directors of each of Endwave and GigOptix, as the case may be, to comply with their respective fiduciary duties, which, under certain circumstances, would enable Endwave or GigOptix, as the 14 Table of Contents case may be, to provide information to, and engage in discussions or negotiations with, third parties with respect to alternative acquisition proposals. Upon termination of the merger agreement under certain circumstances, Endwave may be obligated to pay GigOptix a termination fee of $1,000,000 plus certain reasonable documented expenses of GigOptix. These provisions could discourage a potential acquiror that might have an interest in acquiring all or a significant part of Endwave from considering or proposing that acquisition, even if it were prepared to pay consideration with a higher per share cash or market value than the consideration GigOptix proposes to pay in the merger or might result in a potential competing acquiror proposing to pay a lower per share price to acquire Endwave than it might otherwise have proposed to pay because of the added expense of the termination fee that may become payable to GigOptix in certain circumstances. Endwave stockholders will have reduced ownership and voting interests in GigOptix and will be able to exercise less influence over management following the merger. Immediately after the merger, based on the conversion ratios contained in the merger agreement, the pre-merger holders of Endwave common stock and restricted stock units will own that number of shares equal to 42.5% of the outstanding stock of the combined company, less 42.5% of the shares issued in the merger in respect of Endwave stock options. Consequently, stockholders of Endwave will be able to exercise less influence over the management and policies of GigOptix than they currently exercise over the management and policies of Endwave. There may be a limited public market for shares of GigOptix common stock, and the ability of its stockholders to dispose of their common shares may be limited. GigOptix common stock has been traded on the OTC Bulletin Board since December 2008. GigOptix cannot foresee the degree of liquidity that will be associated with its common stock. A holder of its common stock may not be able to liquidate his, her or its investment in a short time period or at the market prices that currently exist at the time the holder decides to sell. The market price for GigOptix’ common stock may fluctuate in the future, and such volatility may bear no relation to its performance. Substantial future sales of GigOptix’ common stock in the public market could cause GigOptix’ stock price to fall. The sale of GigOptix’ outstanding common stock or shares issuable upon exercise of options or warrants, or the perception that such sales could occur, could cause the market price of GigOptix common stock to decline. GigOptix has registered 4,193,148 shares of its common stock held by existing stockholders for public resale. In addition, one of the stockholders of GigOptix, the DBSI Liquidating Trust, holds 1,715,161 shares of GigOptix stock. GigOptix is separately filing a Registration Statement on Form S-1 for the resale registration of such shares. All of these registered shares of common stock are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act, unless the shares are purchased by “affiliates” as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. Any shares purchased by an affiliate may not be resold except pursuant to an effective registration statement or an applicable exemption from registration, including an exemption under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. GigOptix may issue additional shares of GigOptix common stock in the future in private placements, public offerings or to finance mergers or acquisitions. The exercise of options and warrants and other issuances of shares of common stock or securities convertible into common stock will dilute the interest of GigOptix stockholders. GigOptix has issued options and warrants to purchase a substantial number of shares of its common stock. Certain of the warrants contain adjustment provisions that will reset the exercise price per share of such warrants to any lower price than the existing exercise price at which GigOptix issues shares of its common stock in the future for so long as those warrants are outstanding. The exercise of options and warrants at prices below the market price of GigOptix common stock could adversely affect the price of shares of GigOptix common stock. Additional dilution may result from the issuance of shares of GigOptix capital stock in connection with other acquisitions or in connection with financing efforts. 15 Table of Contents Any issuance of GigOptix common stock that is not made solely to then-existing stockholders proportionate to their interests, such as in the case of a stock dividend or stock split, will result in dilution to each stockholder by reducing his, her or its percentage ownership of the total outstanding shares. Moreover, if GigOptix issues options or warrants to purchase its common stock in the future and those options or warrants are exercised, or if GigOptix issues restricted stock, stockholders may experience further dilution. In addition, certain warrants to purchase shares of GigOptix’ common stock currently contain an exercise price above the current market price for the common stock. These warrants are known as “above-market” warrants. As a result, it is possible that the holders of these warrants may choose not to exercise them prior to their expiration, in which case GigOptix may not realize any proceeds from their exercise. Risks Relating to Our Business We have had a history of losses and may not be profitable in the future. We had a net loss from continuing operations of $8.1 million in 2010. We also had a net loss from continuing operations of $10.6 million and $4.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There is no guarantee that we will achieve or maintain profitability in the future. We depend on a small number of key customers in the mobile communication industry for a significant portion of our revenues. If we lose any of our major customers or there is any material reduction in orders for our products from any of these customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, consolidation in this industry could result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products, adversely impacting our results of operations. We depend, and expect to continue to depend, on a relatively small number of mobile communication customers for a significant part of our revenues. The loss of any of our major customers or any material reduction in orders from any such customers would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In 2010, three customers each accounted for greater than 10% of total revenues and combined they accounted for 93% of our total revenues, the largest of which was Nokia Siemens Networks which accounted for 52% of our total revenues. In 2009, two customers accounted for 88% of our total revenues, the largest of which was Nokia Siemens Networks which accounted for 70% of our total revenues, and no other customer accounted for more than 10% of our total revenues. The mobile communication industry has undergone significant consolidation in the past few years. For example, during January 2011, Ceragon Networks Ltd. entered into a definitive agreement to merge with Nera Networks AS. The acquisition of one of our major customers in this market, or one of the communications service providers supplied by one of our major customers, could result in delays or cancellations of orders for our products and, accordingly, delays or reductions in our anticipated revenues and reduced profitability or increased net losses. Our semiconductor product line will require us to incur significant expenses and may not be successful. Our semiconductor product line will require us to incur expenses to design, test, manufacture and market these products including the purchase of inventory, supplies and capital equipment. The future success of our semiconductor product line will depend on our ability to develop these products in a cost-effective and timely manner and to market them effectively. The development of our products is complex, and from time to time we may experience delays in completing the development and introduction of our new products or fail to efficiently manufacture such products in the early production phase. The semiconductor product line may have little immediate impact on our revenue because a new standard product may not generate meaningful revenue. In the meantime, we will have incurred expenses to design, produce and market the products, and we may not recover these expenses if demand for the product fails to reach forecasted levels which may adversely affect our operating results. 16 Table of Contents Because of the shortages of some components and our dependence on single source suppliers and custom components, we may be unable to obtain an adequate supply of components of sufficient quality in a timely fashion, or we may be required to pay higher prices or to purchase components of lesser quality. Many of our products are customized and must be qualified with our customers. This means that we cannot change components in our products easily without the risks and delays associated with requalification. Accordingly, while a number of the components we use in our products are made by multiple suppliers, we may effectively have single source suppliers for some of these components. Further, we have recently experienced extended lead times for many components. In addition, we currently purchase a number of components, some from single source suppliers, including, but not limited to: • semiconductor devices; • application-specific monolithic microwave integrated circuits; • voltage regulators; • passive components; • unusual or low usage components; • surface mount components compliant with the EU’s Restriction of Hazardous Substances, or RoHS, Directive; • custom metal parts; • high-frequency circuit boards; and • custom connectors. Any delay or interruption in the supply of these or other components could impair our ability to manufacture and deliver our products, harm our reputation and cause a reduction in our revenues. In addition, any increase in the cost of the components that we use in our products could make our products less competitive and lower our margins. In the past, we suffered from shortages of and quality issues with various components. These shortages and quality issues adversely impacted our product revenues and could reappear in the future. Our single source suppliers could enter into exclusive agreements with or be acquired by one of our competitors, increase their prices, refuse to sell their products to us, discontinue products or go out of business. Even to the extent alternative suppliers are available to us and their components are qualified with our customers on a timely basis, identifying them and entering into arrangements with them may be difficult and time consuming, and they may not meet our quality standards. We may not be able to obtain sufficient quantities of required components on the same or substantially the same terms. Competitive conditions often require us to reduce prices and, as a result, requires us to reduce our costs in order to be profitable. Over the past year, we reduced the prices of many of our telecommunication products in order to remain competitive and we expect market conditions will cause us to reduce our prices again in the future. In order to reduce our per-unit cost of product revenues, we must continue to design and re-design products to utilize lower cost materials and improve our manufacturing efficiencies. The combined effects of these actions may be insufficient to achieve the cost reductions needed to maintain or increase our gross margins or achieve profitability. Our operating results may be adversely affected by substantial quarterly and annual fluctuations and market downturns. Our revenues, earnings and other operating results have fluctuated in the past and our revenues, earnings and other operating results may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among others, global economic conditions, overall growth in our target markets, the ability of our customers to obtain adequate capital, U.S. export law changes, changes in customer order patterns, customer consolidation, availability of components from our suppliers, the gain or loss of a 17 Table of Contents significant customer, changes in our product mix and market acceptance of our products and our customers’ products. These factors are difficult to forecast, and these, as well as other factors, could materially and adversely affect our quarterly or annual operating results. We rely on the semiconductor foundry operations of third-party semiconductor foundries to manufacture the integrated circuits sold directly to our customers and contained in our products. The loss of our relationship with any of these foundries without adequate notice would adversely impact our ability to fill customer orders and could damage our customer relationships. We utilize both industry standard semiconductor components and our own custom-designed semiconductor devices. However, we do not own or operate a semiconductor fabrication facility, or foundry, and rely on a limited number of third parties to produce our custom-designed components. If any of our semiconductor suppliers is unable to deliver semiconductors to us in a timely fashion, the resulting delay could severely impact our ability to fulfill customer orders and could damage our relationships with our customers. In addition, the loss of our relationship with or our access to any of the semiconductor foundries we currently use for the fabrication of custom designed components and any resulting delay or reduction in the supply of semiconductor devices to us, would severely impact our ability to fulfill customer orders and could damage our relationships with our customers. We may not be successful in forming alternative supply arrangements that provide us with a sufficient supply of gallium arsenide devices. Gallium arsenide devices are used in a substantial portion of the products we manufacture. Because there are a limited number of semiconductor foundries that use the particular process technologies we select for our products and that have sufficient capacity to meet our needs, using alternative or additional semiconductor foundries would require an extensive qualification process that could prevent or delay product shipments and revenues. We estimate that it may take up to six months to shift production of a given semiconductor circuit design to a new foundry. We rely heavily on a Thailand facility of HANA, a contract manufacturer, to produce our RF modules and to package our microwave and millimeter wave integrated circuits. If HANA is unable to produce or package these modules and circuits in sufficient quantities or with adequate quality, or it chooses to terminate our manufacturing arrangement, we will be forced to find an alternative manufacturer and may not be able to fulfill our production commitments to our customers, which could cause sales to be delayed or lost and could harm our reputation. We outsource the assembly and testing of our products to a Thailand facility of HANA, a contract manufacturer. We plan to continue this arrangement as a key element of our operating strategy. If HANA does not provide us with high quality products and services in a timely manner, terminates its relationship with us, or is unable to produce our products due to financial difficulties or political instability we may be unable to obtain a satisfactory replacement to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis. In the event of an interruption of supply from HANA, sales of our products could be delayed or lost and our reputation could be harmed. Our latest manufacturing agreement with HANA expires in October 2011, but will renew automatically for successive one-year periods unless either party notifies the other of its desire to terminate the agreement at least one year prior to the expiration of the term. No such notification has been sent to or received from HANA. In addition, either party may terminate the agreement without cause upon 365 days prior written notice to the other party, and either party may terminate the agreement if the non-terminating party is in material breach and does not cure the breach within 30 days after notice of the breach is given by the terminating party. There can be no guarantee that HANA will not seek to terminate its agreement with us. Potential misclassification of certain products under the Export Administration Regulations may result in liability for Endwave and affect ongoing operations. In December 2009, we sought and obtained a formal commodity classification from the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security, or BIS, regarding certain amplifier products rated to operate between 34 and 40 GHz. Prior to our request, we believed based on our internal review that the products and related technology were properly classified as EAR99 and that export licenses were not required to any destination in which we had operations or sold products. In response to our commodity classification request, however, BIS determined 18 Table of Contents that our MMIC amplifiers rated to operate between 34 and 40 GHz are classified under Export Classification Control Number, or ECCN, 3A001, which controls MMIC power amplifiers rated for operation at frequencies exceeding 31.8 GHz up to and including 37.5 GHz without regard to power output or fractional bandwidth limits. Products falling under ECCN 3A001 are controlled for national security purposes and are subject to export licensing requirements for most countries. Similarly, technology for the development or production of items controlled under ECCN 3A001 falls under ECCN 3E001. Exports of such technology are likewise controlled for national security purposes and subject to restrictive licensing requirements. License exceptions are available under the Export Administration Regulations for items and technology classified under ECCNs 3A001 and 3E001, respectively. We have requested reconsideration of certain BIS classifications and are in the process of reviewing the affected transactions. As part of this review, the Company has quarantined the affected products. We have also submitted an initial voluntary self-disclosure to BIS and will provide a detailed report to BIS regarding the affected transactions. At this time, we believe that all the transactions entered into by the Company could have qualified for license exceptions under the Export Administration Regulations. Nevertheless, we may be responsible for monetary penalties and may experience operational delays that could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our products may contain component, manufacturing or design defects or may not meet our customers’ performance criteria, which could cause us to incur significant repair expenses, harm our customer relationships and industry reputation, and reduce our revenues and profitability. We have experienced manufacturing quality problems with our products in the past and may have similar problems in the future. As a result of these problems, we have replaced components in some products, or replaced the product, in accordance with our product warranties. Our product warranties typically last twelve to thirty months. As a result of component, manufacturing or design defects, we may be required to repair or replace a substantial number of products under our product warranties, incurring significant expenses as a result. Further, our customers may discover latent defects in our integrated circuits and module products that were not apparent when the warranty period expired. These latent defects may cause us to incur significant repair or replacement expenses beyond the normal warranty period. In addition, any component, manufacturing or design defect could cause us to lose customers or revenues or damage our customer relationships and industry reputation. We may not be able to design our products as quickly as our customers require, which could cause us to lose sales and may harm our reputation. Existing and potential customers typically demand that we design products for them under difficult time constraints. In the current market environment, the need to respond quickly is particularly important. If we are unable to commit the necessary resources to complete a project for a potential customer within the requested timeframe, we may lose a potential sale. Our ability to design products within the time constraints demanded by a customer will depend on the number of product design professionals who are available to focus on that customer’s project and the availability of professionals with the requisite level of expertise is limited. We have, in the past, expended significant resources on research and design efforts on potential customer products that did not result in additional revenue. Each of our communication products is designed for a specific range of frequencies. Because different national governments license different portions of the frequency spectrum for the mobile communication market, and because communications service providers license specific frequencies as they become available, in order to remain competitive we must adapt our products rapidly to use a wide range of different frequencies. This may require the design of products at a number of different frequencies simultaneously. This design process can be difficult and time consuming, could increase our costs and could cause delays in the delivery of products to our customers, which may harm our reputation and delay or cause us to lose revenues. Our customers often have specific requirements that can be at the forefront of technological development and therefore difficult and expensive to meet. If we are not able to devote sufficient resources to these products, or we experience development difficulties or delays, we could lose sales and damage our reputation with those customers. 19 Table of Contents We depend on our key personnel. Skilled personnel in our industry can be in short supply. If we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional qualified personnel, our ability to develop and successfully market our products would be harmed. We believe that our future success depends upon our ability to attract, integrate and retain highly skilled managerial, research and development, manufacturing and sales and marketing personnel. Skilled personnel in our industry can be in short supply. As a result, our employees are highly sought after by competing companies and our ability to attract skilled personnel is limited. To attract and retain qualified personnel, we may be required to grant large stock option or other stock-based incentive awards, which may harm our operating results or be dilutive to our other stockholders. We may also be required to pay significant base salaries and cash bonuses, which could harm our operating results. Due to our relatively small number of employees and the limited number of individuals with the skill set needed to work in our industry, we are particularly dependent on the continued employment of our senior management team and other key personnel. If one or more members of our senior management team or other key personnel were unable or unwilling to continue in their present positions, these persons would be very difficult to replace, and our ability to conduct our business successfully could be seriously harmed. We do not maintain key person life insurance policies. The length of our sales cycle requires us to invest substantial financial and technical resources in a potential sale before we know whether the sale will occur. There is no guarantee that the sale will ever occur and if we are unsuccessful in designing integrated circuits and module products for a particular generation of a customer’s products, we may need to wait until the next generation of that product to sell our products to that particular customer. Our products are highly technical and the sales cycle can be long. Our sales efforts involve a collaborative and iterative process with our customers to determine their specific requirements either in order to design an appropriate solution or to transfer the product efficiently to our offshore contract manufacturer. Depending on the product and market, the sales cycle can take anywhere from 2 to 24 months, and we incur significant expenses as part of this process without any assurance of resulting revenues. We generate revenues only if our product is selected for incorporation into a customer’s system and that system is accepted in the marketplace. If our product is not selected, or the customer’s development program is discontinued, we generally will not have an opportunity to sell our product to that customer until that customer develops a new generation of its system. There is no guarantee that our product will be selected for that new generation system. The length of our product development and sales cycle makes us particularly vulnerable to the loss of a significant customer or a significant reduction in orders by a customer because we may be unable to quickly replace the lost or reduced sales. We may not be able to manufacture and deliver our products as quickly as our customers require, which could cause us to lose sales and would harm our reputation. We may not be able to manufacture products and deliver them to our customers at the times and in the volumes they require. Manufacturing delays and interruptions can occur for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • the failure of a supplier to deliver needed components on a timely basis or with acceptable quality; • lack of sufficient capacity; • poor manufacturing yields; • equipment failures; • manufacturing personnel shortages; • transportation disruptions; • changes in import/export regulations; • infrastructure failures at the facilities of our offshore contract manufacturer; 20 Table of Contents • natural disasters; • acts of terrorism; and • political instability. Manufacturing our products is complex. The yield, or percentage of products manufactured that conform to required specifications, can decrease for many reasons, including materials containing impurities, equipment not functioning in accordance with requirements or human error. If our yield is lower than we expect, we may not be able to deliver products on time. For example, in the past, we have on occasion experienced poor yields on certain products that have prevented us from delivering products on time and have resulted in lost sales. If we fail to manufacture and deliver products in a timely fashion, our reputation may be harmed, we may jeopardize existing orders and lose potential future sales, and we may be forced to pay penalties to our customers. Although we do have long-term commitments from many of our customers, they are not for fixed quantities of product. As a result, we must estimate customer demand, and errors in our estimates could have negative effects on our cash, inventory levels, revenues and results of operations. We have been required historically to place firm orders for products and manufacturing equipment with our suppliers up to six months prior to the anticipated delivery date and, on occasion, prior to receiving an order for the product, based on our forecasts of customer demands. Our sales process requires us to make multiple demand forecast assumptions, each of which may introduce error into our estimates. If we overestimate customer demand, we may allocate resources to manufacturing products that we may not be able to sell when we expect, if at all. As a result, we would have additional usage of cash, excess inventory and overhead expense, which would harm our financial results. On occasion, we have experienced adverse financial results due to excess inventory and excess manufacturing capacity. For example, the second quarter of 2010 included a $1.5 million write-off of inventory associated with excess materials related to a rapid drop in sales of a legacy product for a major customer’s radio platform. Conversely, if we underestimate customer demand or if insufficient manufacturing capacity were available, we would lose revenue opportunities, market share and damage our customer relationships. On occasion, we have been unable to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders and were unable to benefit from this increased demand. There is no guarantee that we will be able to adequately respond to unexpected increases in customer purchase orders in the future, in which case we may lose the revenues associated with those additional purchase orders and our customer relationships and reputation may suffer. Any failure to protect our intellectual property appropriately could reduce or eliminate any competitive advantage we have. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our intellectual property. We rely primarily on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws to protect our proprietary technologies and processes. As of December 31, 2010, we had 43 United States patents issued, many with associated foreign filings and patents. Our issued patents include those relating to basic circuit and device designs, semiconductors, our multilithic microsystems technology and system designs. Our issued United States patents expire between 2013 and 2028. We maintain a vigorous technology development program that routinely generates potentially patentable intellectual property. Our decision as to whether to seek formal patent protection is done on a case by case basis and is based on the economic value of the intellectual property, the anticipated strength of the resulting patent, the cost of pursuing the patent and an assessment of using a patent as a strategy to protect the intellectual property. To protect our intellectual property, we regularly enter into written confidentiality and assignment of rights to inventions agreements with our employees, and confidentiality and non-disclosure agreements with third parties, and generally control access to and distribution of our documentation and other proprietary information. These measures may not be adequate in all cases to safeguard the proprietary technology underlying our products. It may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology without authorization, develop similar technology independently or attempt to design around our patents. In addition, effective patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited outside of the United States, Europe 21 Table of Contents and Japan. We may not be able to obtain any meaningful intellectual property protection in other countries and territories. Additionally, we may, for a variety of reasons, decide not to file for patent, copyright, or trademark protection outside of the United States. Moreover we occasionally agree to incorporate a customer’s or supplier’s intellectual property into our designs, in which case we have obligations with respect to the non-use and non-disclosure of that intellectual property. We also license technology from other companies, including Northrop Grumman Corporation. There are no limitations on our rights to make, use or sell products we may develop in the future using the chip technology licensed to us by Northrop Grumman Corporation. Steps taken by us to prevent misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property or the intellectual property of our customers may not be successful. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of proprietary rights of others, including our customers. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of our resources. We may receive in the future, notices of claims of infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. In addition, the invalidity of our patents may be asserted or prosecuted against us. Furthermore, in a patent or trade secret action, we could be required to withdraw the product or products as to which infringement was claimed from the market or redesign products offered for sale or under development. We have also at times agreed to indemnification obligations in favor of our customers and other third parties that could be triggered upon an allegation or finding of our infringement of other parties’ proprietary rights. These indemnification obligations would be triggered for reasons including our sale or supply to a customer or other third parties of a product which was later discovered to infringe upon another party’s proprietary rights. Irrespective of the validity or successful assertion of such claims we would likely incur significant costs and diversion of our resources with respect to the defense of such claims. To address any potential claims or actions asserted against us, we may seek to obtain a license under a third party’s intellectual property rights. However, in such an instance, a license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. With regard to our pending patent applications, it is possible that no patents may be issued as a result of these or any future applications or the allowed patent claims may be of reduced value and importance. If they are issued, any patent claims allowed may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Further, any existing or future patents may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented thus reducing or eliminating their commercial value. The failure of any patents to provide protection to our technology might make it easier for our competitors to offer similar products and use similar manufacturing techniques. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Although we have not experienced any material losses on our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, future declines in their market values could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Although our portfolio has no direct investments in auction rate or sub-prime mortgage securities, our overall investment portfolio is currently and may in the future be concentrated in cash equivalents including money market funds. If any of the issuers of the securities we hold default on their obligations, or their credit ratings are negatively affected by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors, the value of our cash equivalents and short-term and long-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our failure to compete effectively could reduce our revenues and margins. Among suppliers in the mobile communication market who provide integrated transceivers to radio OEMs, we primarily compete with Compel Electronics SpA, Filtronic plc, and Microelectronics Technology Inc. Additionally, there are mobile communication OEMs, such as Ericsson and NEC Corporation, that use their own captive resources for the design and manufacture of their transceiver modules, rather than using suppliers like us. To the extent that mobile communication OEMs presently, or may in the future, produce their own transceiver modules, we lose the opportunity to provide our modules to them. However, when we launched our semiconductor product line, we gained the opportunity to provide integrated circuits to all radio OEMs. 22 Table of Contents Our failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including fines, suspension of production, excess inventory, sales limitations and criminal and civil liabilities. Due to environmental concerns, the need for lead-free solutions in electronic components and systems is receiving increasing attention within the electronics industry as companies are moving towards becoming compliant with the RoHS Directive. The RoHS Directive is European Union legislation that restricts the use of a number of substances, including lead, after July 2006. We believe that our products impacted by these regulations are compliant with the RoHS Directive and that materials will continue to be available to meet these regulations. However, it is possible that unanticipated supply shortages or delays or excess non-compliant inventory may occur as a result of these new regulations. Failure to comply with any applicable environmental regulations could result in a range of consequences, including loss of sales, fines, suspension of production, excess inventory and criminal and civil liabilities. Government regulation of the communications industry could limit the growth of the markets that we serve or could require costly alterations of our current or future products. The markets that we serve are highly regulated. Communications service providers must obtain regulatory approvals to operate broadband wireless access networks within specified licensed bands of the frequency spectrum. Further, the Federal Communications Commission and foreign regulatory agencies have adopted regulations that impose stringent RF emissions standards on the communications industry that could limit the growth of the markets that we serve or could require costly alterations of our current or future products. Our failure to continue to develop new or improved semiconductor process technologies could impair our competitive position. Our future success depends in part upon our ability to continue to gain access to the current semiconductor process technologies in order to adapt to emerging customer requirements and competitive market conditions. If we fail to keep abreast of the new and improved semiconductor process technologies as they emerge, we may lose market share which could adversely affect our operating results. The segment of the semiconductor industry in which we participate is intensely competitive, and our inability to compete effectively would harm our business. The markets for our products are extremely competitive, and are characterized by rapid technological change and continuously evolving customer requirements. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, our competitors may develop new technologies, enhancements of existing products or new products that offer price or performance features superior to ours. In addition, our competitors may be perceived by prospective customers to offer financial and operational stability superior to ours. We expect competition in our markets to intensify as new competitors enter the RF, microwave and millimeter wave component market, existing competitors merge or form alliances, and new technologies emerge. If we are not able to compete effectively, our market share and revenue could be adversely affected and our business and results of operations could be harmed. Risks Relating to Ownership of Our Stock The market price of our common stock has fluctuated historically and is likely to fluctuate in the future. The price of our common stock has fluctuated widely since our initial public offering in October 2000. In 2010, the lowest daily sales price for our common stock was $2.00 and the highest daily sales price for our common stock was $3.61. In 2009, the lowest daily sales price for our common stock was $1.36 and the highest daily sales price for 23 Table of Contents our common stock was $3.43. The market price of our common stock can fluctuate significantly for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • our financial performance or the performance of our competitors; • the purchase or sale of common stock, short-selling or transactions by large stockholders; • technological innovations or other significant trends or changes in the markets we serve; • successes or failures at significant product evaluations or site demonstrations; • the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; • acquisitions, strategic alliances or joint ventures involving us or our competitors; • decisions by major customers not to purchase products from us or to pursue alternative technologies; • decisions by investors to de-emphasize investment categories, groups or strategies that include our company or industry; • market conditions in the industry, the financial markets and the economy as a whole; and • the low trading volume of our common stock. It is likely that our operating results in one or more future quarters may be below the expectations of security analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, the stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These market fluctuations can be unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies and the market prices for securities of technology companies have been especially volatile. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock. Additionally, future stock price volatility for our common stock could provoke the initiation of securities litigation, which may divert substantial management resources and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our existing insurance coverage may not sufficiently cover all costs and claims that could arise out of any such securities litigation. We anticipate that prices for our common stock will continue to be volatile. We have a few stockholders that each own a large percentage of our outstanding capital stock and, as a result of their significant ownership, are able to significantly affect the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval. As of January 31, 2011, our five largest stockholders together owned approximately 40% of our outstanding common stock. Because most matters requiring approval of our stockholders require the approval of the holders of a majority of the shares of our outstanding capital stock present in person or by proxy at the annual meeting, the significant ownership interest of these shareholders allows them to significantly affect the election of our directors and the outcome of corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. This concentration of ownership may also delay, deter or prevent a change in control and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without their support, even if the transaction is favorable to our stockholders as a whole. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and arrangements with executive officers could delay or prevent a change in control. We are subject to certain Delaware anti-takeover laws by virtue of our status as a Delaware corporation. These laws prevent us from engaging in a merger or sale of more than 10% of our assets with any stockholder, including all affiliates and associates of any stockholder, who owns 15% or more of our outstanding voting stock, for three years following the date that the stockholder acquired 15% or more of our voting stock, unless our board of directors approved the business combination or the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, or upon consummation of the transaction which resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of our voting stock of the corporation, or the business combination is approved by our board of directors and authorized by at least 662/3% of our outstanding voting stock not owned by the interested stockholder. A corporation may opt out of the Delaware anti-takeover laws in its charter 24 Table of Contents documents; however we have not chosen to do so. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include a number of provisions that may deter or impede hostile takeovers or changes of control of management, including a staggered board of directors, the elimination of the ability of our stockholders to act by written consent, discretionary authority given to our board of directors as to the issuance of preferred stock, and indemnification rights for our directors and executive officers. Additionally, we have adopted a Stockholder Rights Plan, providing for the distribution of one preferred share purchase right for each outstanding share of common stock that may lead to the delay or prevention of a change in control that is not approved by our board of directors. We have a Senior Executive Officer Severance Retention Plan, an Executive Officer Severance Plan and a Key Employee Severance and Retention Plan that provide for severance payments and the acceleration of vesting of a percentage of certain stock options granted to our executive officers and certain senior, non-executive employees under specified conditions. These plans may make us a less attractive acquisition target or may reduce the amount a potential acquirer may otherwise be willing to pay for our company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 