Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in the Corporation’s common stock is subject to risks inherent to the Corporation’s business. The material risks and uncertainties that Management believes affect the Corporation are described below. Before making an investment decision, investors should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below together with all the other information included or incorporated by reference in this report. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing the Corporation. Additional risks and uncertainties that Management is not aware of or focused on or that Management currently deems immaterial may also impair the Corporation’s business operations. This report is qualified in its entirety by these risk factors. If any of the following risks actually occur, the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. If this were to happen, the value of the Corporation’s common stock could decline significantly, and investors would lose all or part of their investment. Risks Related to the Corporation’s Business Interest Rate Risk — The Corporation’s earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon its net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest earned on interest earning assets such as loans and securities and interest paid on interest bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond the Corporation’s control, including general economic and market conditions and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest the Corporation receives on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect the Corporation’s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits and the fair values of the Corporation’s financial assets and liabilities. If the interest rates paid on deposits and other borrowings increase at a faster rate or decrease at a slower rate than the interest rates received on loans and investments, the Corporation’s net interest income, and therefore earnings, could be adversely affected. Although Management believes it has implemented effective asset and liability management strategies to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on the Corporation’s results of operations, any substantial, unexpected, or prolonged change in market interest rates or in the term structure of interest rates could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. See Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk in this report for further discussion related to the Corporation’s management of interest rate risk. Lending Risk — There are inherent risks associated with the Corporation’s lending activities. These risks include, among other things, the impact of changes in interest rates and changes in economic conditions in the markets where the Corporation operates as well as those across the State of Michigan and the United States. Increases in interest rates and/or weakening economic conditions could adversely impact the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans or the value of the collateral securing these loans. The Corporation is also subject to various laws and regulations that affect its lending activities. Failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations could subject the Corporation to regulatory enforcement action that could result in the assessment of significant civil money penalties against the Corporation. As of December 31, 2008, more than 80% of the Corporation’s loan portfolio was secured by real estate. These types of loans have historically been viewed as lower risk of default than commercial and industrial or consumer loans. Recent market declines in values of both residential and commercial properties have elevated the risks for loans secured by real estate. The Corporation’s loan portfolio contains a significant amount of non-performing loans. The Corporation’s portfolio also contains some loans with relatively large balances, and the deterioration of one or a few of these large loans could cause a significant increase in non-performing loans. An increase in non-performing loans could result in a net loss of earnings from these loans, an increase in the provision for loan losses, and an increase in loan charge-offs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. 5 The Corporation maintains an Allowance for Loan Losses, which is a reserve established through a provision for loan losses charged to expense, that represents Management’s best estimate of probable loan losses that have been incurred within the existing portfolio of loans. The Allowance, in the judgment of Management, is necessary to reserve for estimated loan losses and risks inherent in the loan portfolio. The level of the Allowance reflects Management’s continuing evaluation of loan loss experience, current loan portfolio quality, present economic, political, and regulatory conditions, and unidentified losses inherent in the current loan portfolio. The determination of the appropriate level of the Allowance inherently involves a high degree of subjectivity and requires the Corporation to make significant estimates of current credit risks and future trends, all of which may undergo material changes. Changes in economic conditions affecting borrowers, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, and other factors, both within and outside of the Corporation’s control, may require an increase in the Allowance. In addition, bank regulatory agencies periodically review the Corporation’s Allowance and may require an increase in the provision for loan losses or the recognition of further loan charge-offs, based on judgments different from those of Management. Economic Risk — The Corporation’s success depends significantly on the general economic conditions of the State of Michigan. Unlike larger regional or national banks that are more geographically diversified, the Corporation provides banking and financial services to customers primarily in Southeast Michigan and Northwest Ohio. The local economic conditions in these areas have a significant impact on the demand for the Corporation’s products and services as well as the ability of the Corporation’s customers to repay loans, the value of the collateral securing loans, and the stability of the Corporation’s deposit funding sources. A significant decline in general economic conditions caused by inflation, recession, acts of terrorism, unemployment, changes in securities markets or other factors could impact these local economic conditions and, in turn, have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Competitive Risk — The Corporation faces substantial competition in all areas of its operations from a variety of different competitors, many of which are larger and may have more financial resources. Such competitors primarily include regional and national banks within the Corporation’s market. The Corporation also faces competition from many other types of financial institutions, including savings and loan institutions, credit unions, finance companies, brokerage firms, insurance companies, and other financial intermediaries. The financial services industry could become even more competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory, and technological changes and continued consolidation. Banks, securities firms, and insurance companies can merge under the umbrella of a financial holding company, which can offer virtually any type of financial service, including banking, securities underwriting, and insurance. Also, technology has lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to offer products and services traditionally provided by banks, such as automatic transfer and automatic payment systems. Many of the Corporation’s competitors have fewer regulatory constraints, and may have lower cost structures. Additionally, many competitors may be able to achieve economies of scale, and as a result, may offer a broader range of products and services as well as better pricing for those products and services than the Corporation can. Increased competition could adversely affect the Corporation’s growth and profitability, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s financial condition and results of operations. Regulatory Risk — The Corporation is subject to extensive federal and state regulation and supervision. Banking regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors’ funds, federal deposit insurance funds, and the banking system as a whole, not shareholders. These regulations affect the Corporation’s lending practices, capital structure, investment practices, dividend policy, and growth, among other things. Congress and federal regulatory agencies continually review banking laws, regulations, and policies for possible changes. Changes to statutes, regulations, or regulatory policies, including changes in interpretation or implementation of statutes, regulations, or policies, could affect the Corporation in substantial and unpredictable ways. Such changes could subject the Corporation to additional costs, limit the types of financial services and products the Corporation may offer and/or increase the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial products and services, among other things. Failure to comply with laws, regulations, or policies could result in sanctions by regulatory agencies, civil money penalties, and/or reputation damage, which could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, 6 financial condition, and results of operations. While the Corporation has policies and procedures designed to prevent any such violations, there can be no assurance that such violations will not occur. Recent events in the U.S. and global financial markets, including the deterioration of the worldwide credit markets, have created significant challenges for financial institutions both in the United States and around the world. Dramatic declines in the housing market during the past year, marked by falling home prices and increasing levels of mortgage foreclosures, have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major commercial and investment banks. In light of these current economic conditions, regulatory authorities have been taking actions with respect to the banking industry as a whole and individual financial institutions in particular, including institutions that are considered well capitalized under applicable regulatory standards. These actions are intended to stabilize and improve the financial condition, risk profile, and capital adequacy of the industry and such financial institutions. Such actions may take the form of an informal understanding between the regulatory authority and a financial institution that imposes various requirements on the financial institution. These requirements could include the development of goals, strategies, and plans for improving lending procedures, lowering risk profiles, maintaining specific capital levels, raising capital, and restrictions on dividends, transactions with affiliates, redemption of equity securities, and incurring or refinancing debt. The US Government has instituted a number of programs designed to increase credit availability, provide liquidity during the crisis and stabilize the banking system, and there may be additional sweeping governmental reform legislation enacted to provide even greater supervision and regulation of the banking and financial service industry over the coming years. It is impossible to predict how these possible reforms may affect our ability to implement our business plans. Failure or Circumvention of Controls and Procedures — Management regularly reviews and updates the Corporation’s internal controls, disclosure controls, and procedures, and corporate governance policies and procedures. Any system of controls, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. Any failure or circumvention of the Corporation’s controls and procedures or failure to comply with regulations related to controls and procedures could have a material adverse effect on the Corporation’s business, results of operations, and financial condition. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 