RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this annual report before making an investment decision. The risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this annual report are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. Although we had net income of $0.5 million in 2009, we had incurred substantial net losses during each of the four fiscal years prior to 2009 and may not achieve profitability in 2010 or in future years. As of December 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $121.2 million. In order to maintain profitability we will need to increase our revenues while containing or reducing our costs. However, a substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. Therefore, if our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. Prior to 2009, while our revenues in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were $11.4 million, $11.2 million, and $13.9 million, respectively, we incurred net losses of $2.1 million, $3.8 million, and $1.9 million, respectively, during these years. Furthermore, while we achieved profitability in 2009, our revenues decreased to $10.4 million. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues once again, or, that even if we are able to increase our revenues we will be able to maintain our profitability on a consistent basis. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, thereby making it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons of such results, which may contribute to volatility in the market price for our Ordinary Shares and may adversely impact the price of our Ordinary Shares. and. Our revenues, gross profits and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The following events or factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results and/or cause our share price to decline: • changes in global economic conditions in general, and conditions in our industry and target markets in particular; • changes in demand or timing of orders, especially large orders, for our products and services; • the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; • timing of product releases; • the dollar value of, and the timing of, our contracts; • delays in completion of implementation projects with customers; • the mix of revenue generated by software licenses and professional services; • price and product competition; • changes in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; • technological changes; • our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • reductions in the level of our cash balances and our ability to raise cash; • consolidation of our customers; • fluctuations in the economic factors impacting LIBOR (which is the benchmark rate used to determine the interest expenses incurred by us on our bank borrowings under our bank arrangement); • the geographic composition of our revenues; • integration and assimilation of management, employees and product lines of acquired companies; • effectiveness of our customer support, whether provided by our resellers or directly by us; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations , primarily the US dollar against the Israeli shekel. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as indicative of our future performance. Also, it is possible that our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our Ordinary Shares will likely decrease. 3 Table of Contents We may not be able to meet our debt payment obligations in the future. We have $480,000 face value of convertible debt outstanding that is owed to LibertyView Special Opportunities Fund, L.P. (“LibertyView”), for which LibertyView has the option to request payment in full at any time in July 2011. Our ability to meet our obligations under the convertible debt and our other debt obligations will depend on whether we can successfully implement our strategy, as well as on financial, competitive, and other factors, including some factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt, we may have to refinance all or part of our indebtedness. In addition, cash flows from our operations may be insufficient to repay our convertible debt in full at maturity, in which case we may need to refinance the convertible debt. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness, including the convertible debt, will depend upon, among other things: our financial condition at the time; restrictions in agreements governing our debt; and, other factors, including market conditions. We cannot ensure you that any such refinancing would be possible on terms that we could accept, or that we could obtain additional financing at all. If refinancing will not be possible or if additional financing will not be available, that would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all. In 2008 and 2009, we had positive cash flow from operations. However, prior to 2008, we had negative cash flow from operations for each of the several preceding years. In the past five years, we have had aggregate negative operating cash flow in the amount of $6.9 million. Over the past five years, we have raised approximately $3.5 million in a combination of convertible debt and equity financings during 2005, approximately $1.4 million from private equity financing transactions during 2006 and approximately $1.2 million in a combination of equity and convertible debt financings during 2007 and 2008, . However, we expect that we may need additional financing to fund our business operations. Any additional financing that is structured as a secured debt financing may require the consent of our main current creditors, Bank Hapoalim and LibertyView. Our ability to raise additional financing from third parties may be impacted by the limited liquidity of our Ordinary Shares on the Over-The-Counter Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”). We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In the event that the market price of our Ordinary Shares does not appreciate or declines, we may not be able to consummate a private equity financing transaction to raise additional capital. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our day to day operations, expand our research and development, and marketing and sales, efforts, pursue potential acquisitions, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our website content, features, services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be severely constrained. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced, and any newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. We will need sufficient funds to re-pay our loans from Bank Hapoalim, which may be subject to immediate repayment if we do not meet our repayment schedule or meet specified conditions. As of May 31, 2010, our aggregate outstanding borrowings from Bank Hapoalim were approximately $1.6 million, which consisted of (i) short-term borrowings of approximately $0.25 million, of which $0.1 million is drawn in dollars with interest payable quarterly at a rate of 11.5%, and $0.13 million is drawn in NIS with interest payable quarterly at a rate of prime plus 3.3%, and (ii) long-term loans of approximately $1.1 million with an interest rate of 3 months LIBOR plus 3.25% and $0.25 million with an interest rate of 3 months LIBOR plus 4.3%. Our overall bank financing arrangement with Bank Hapoalim had historically been subject to financial covenants, and on August 29, 2007, Bank Hapoalim agreed to modify our bank covenant requirements as part of our overall bank financing arrangement such that on a quarterly basis starting August 1, 2007 (i) our shareholders’ equity is required to be at least the higher of (a) 13% of our total assets, or (b) $1.5 million, and (ii) our cash balance is required to be not less than $0.5 million. In addition, Bank Hapoalim provided us with a waiver of these new bank covenant requirements for the remainder of 2007. In connection with the modification of these waiver and bank covenant requirements, we agreed to pay $10,000 of fees and issue 10,000 Ordinary Shares to the bank. We were not in compliance with these covenants for each quarterly period during the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009. However, on September 28, 2008 we received a waiver of these covenants from Bank Hapoalim for each quarterly period during 2008 and for the first quarter of 2009, and on October 28, 2009 we received from Bank Hapoalim a waiver of these covenants for the remaining quarters of 2009 and for the first quarter of 2010. In connection with the waivers granted on October 28, 2009 we paid fees of $15,000 to the bank. On July 15, 2010 we received from Bank Hapoalim a waiver of these covenants for the remaining quarters of 2010 and for the first quarter of 2011. In connection with this waiver we agreed to pay fees of $15,000 to the bank. On September 29, 2008, Bank Hapoalim agreed to convert a $1.6 million short term loan that was due on January 2, 2009 into a long-term loan payable in the following increments: $0.1 million on July 2, 2009; an additional $0.1 million on August 15, 2009; and the balance of $1.4 million in 14 quarterly installments of $0.1 million each, commencing on October 2, 2009. The interest on our long-term loan is payable quarterly at a rate of LIBOR plus 3.25%. In connection with the waivers granted on September 28, 2008 and the conversion of the short-term loan to a long-term loan, we agreed to pay fees of $30,000 to the bank. We may need to obtain funding from third parties to meet the payment obligations under the above-described loan arrangement in a timely manner, and there is no assurance that Bank Hapoalim will grant us an extension of these payment dates in the future, if requested. Our ability to raise capital via convertible debt or equity financing arrangements with third parties for the re-payment of our loans with Bank Hapoalim may be impacted by the limited liquidity of our Ordinary Shares on the OTCBB. There can be no assurance that we will meet our covenants to the bank or that the bank will waive non-compliance with any such covenants in the event that we do not meet them. If we fail to timely effect any repayment of loans to Bank Hapoalim or to meet these covenants, the bank may demand immediate repayment of the outstanding debts and all interest thereon and shall be entitled to exercise any remedies available to it. That would have a material adverse effect on our business. We have substantially reduced the number of our employees during 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 , and, as a result, may be unable to meet certain revenue objectives and continue to incur losses. During 2004, we substantially increased our overall headcount from 86 at the beginning of the year to 126 at the end of the year. Part of such increase was related to the assumption of 25 employees as a result of our acquisition of Utility Partners. In June 2005, we added another 22 employees via the acquisition of e-Wise Solutions, raising our headcount to 148. After the acquisition of e-Wise, we determined that we had an excess of resources resulting from these acquisitions and took action to reduce headcount. These actions resulted in a reduction of our headcount to 120 at the end of December 2005, 98 at the end of December 2006, and 88 at the end of December 2007. During 2008, we further reduced our headcount to 67 employees,. Although we believe that we currently have sufficient resources available to meet and support our current obligations in relation to our current staff, we may not be able to maintain this headcount. If we are forced to reduce headcount further, our ability to meet our growth goals, and our business and operations, may be negatively impacted. We may need to expand our sales, marketing, research and development and professional services organizations but may lack the resources to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, which may hinder our ability to grow and meet customer demands. While we have conducted reductions in the number of our employees the past several years, due to operational needs, we may need to reverse course and expand our headcount beyond our current staff in order to increase market awareness and sales of our products. We may also need to increase our quality assurance, technical 4 Table of Contents and customer support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers. These positions require training on the use of our products, and we generally expect that the training period will take a significant amount of time before these personnel can support our customers. In addition, there is competition for qualified personnel (especially senior employees). Competition for qualified professional employees may lead to increased labor and personnel costs. If we need to hire additional employees and are unable to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives, and our business could be harmed. Competition for senior employees can be intense, especially in a number of our key markets and locations, including Israel. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. The market for the qualified personnel that we require is very competitive, even in times of economic downturn, because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel, where competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel that we need. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our research and development and sales objectives. Historically, our revenues have been concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose a key customer. A significant portion of our revenues each year has been derived from large orders from a small number of customers which are not necessarily the same customers each year. In 2007, three customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 19% of our total revenues. In 2008, four customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 32% of our total revenues. In 2009, five customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 39% of our total revenues. We do not expect that the five customers accounting for 39% of our revenue during 2009 will generate a substantial percentage of our revenues in the future. However, we do expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract such substantial customers that will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or a significant reduction in sales to a key customer would cause our revenues to significantly decrease and make it significantly more difficult for us to be profitable. Our sales cycle is variable and often long and involves investment of significant resources on our part, but may never result in actual sales and we may therefore suffer additional losses. Our sales cycle from our initial contact with a potential customer to the signing of a license and related agreements has historically been lengthy and variable. We generally must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources, causing us to incur most of our product development and selling and marketing expenses in advance of a potential sale. In addition, a number of companies decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we also run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that results in a competitor obtaining the desired contract from the customer or in a decision by a customer not to proceed. The purchasing decisions of our customers are subject to the uncertainties and delays of the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. If our sales cycles lengthen further, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more widely than in the past. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business may be adversely affected. The market for mobile workforce management software solutions is evolving. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our products. Changes in technologies, industry standards, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. We have limited development resources to expend on product development. Therefore, we may be unable to timely develop products that meet the market’s future needs. If we were to experience a significant increase in the number of customers, or were to decide to effect a significant increase in our development of new product offerings, or both, we would need to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. During the past few years, we have experienced fluctuation in the mix of our revenues from software licenses and services, and a reduction in the overall amount of our services revenues. If either or both of these trends continue, it may adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Our revenues from the sale of software licenses have fluctuated over the past three years, declining to approximately $1.4 million in 2008 from approximately $1.8 million in 2007, and rising back up to approximately $1.5 million in 2009. Our revenues from services have also fluctuated over the past three years, increasing to approximately $10 million in 2008 from approximately $9.4 million in 2007, and then declining to approximately $8.9 million in 2009. Both of these trends have had a direct impact on our gross margins and profitability. Our gross margin from software licenses is substantially higher than our gross margin from services, since our cost of services, which includes expenses of salaries and related benefits of the employees engaged in providing the services, is substantially higher than our cost of software licenses. However, a decline in the volume of services revenues that we generate (regardless of such services’ relative lesser profitability) may in any case have an adverse direct impact on our overall gross margins and profitability if not accompanied by a countervailing increase in the amount of revenue from software licenses. If software license revenues should once again decline, or if services revenues continue to decline and are not again accompanied by a countervailing increase in software license revenues, our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected. If we fail to stabilize or improve our margins on service revenues in the future, our results of operations could suffer. Our margins on service revenues have not been consistent. In 2009, our margins on services revenues were 56% compared to 44% in 2008 and 40% in 2007. In order to maintain or continue to improve our margins on services revenues, we will need to maintain or increase the efficiency and utilization of our services personnel, consistently control our costs, and increase the volume of our services revenues. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or continue to improve our services margins, or, that they will not decline in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues may depend on our ability to make sales through third parties. We are becoming more dependent upon resellers and channel partners to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. We expect this dependence to continue and potentially increase due to our limited internal sales and marketing resources in existing markets and to furthermore increase due to our desire to penetrate new vertical markets for our products in North America and expand into new geographic markets for our products outside of North America. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many resellers and channel partners, even if we manage to maintain and expand our relationship with such resellers and channel partners, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from them so as to meet all of our customers’ needs. If anticipated orders from these resellers and channel partners fail to materialize, or if our current business agreements with them are terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 5 Table of Contents Our channel and strategic partner strategy may expose us to additional risks relating to intellectual property infringement. Our increased reliance on our channel and strategic partners may increase the likelihood of the infringement of our intellectual property. As we deepen our ties with our channel and strategic partners, the number of people who are exposed to, and interact with, our software and other intellectual property will increase. Despite our best efforts to protect our intellectual property, our channel or strategic partners, or their employees or customers, may copy some portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information and technology that we regard as proprietary. Our channel or strategic partners might also improperly incorporate portions of our technology into their own products or otherwise exceed the authorized scope of their licenses to our technology. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent infringement and/or to enforce our rights to our technology, our revenues may be negatively impacted and we may lose competitive position in the market. If we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with third party providers of implementation and consulting services, we may be unable to increase our revenues. To focus more effectively on our core business of developing and licensing software solutions, we need to establish and maintain additional relationships with third parties that can provide implementation and consulting services to our customers. Third-party implementation and consulting firms can also be influential in the choice of mobile workforce management solutions by new customers. If we cannot establish and maintain effective, long-term relationships with implementation and consulting providers, or if these providers do not meet the needs or expectations of our customers, we may be unable to increase our revenues and our business could be seriously harmed. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many third-party implementation providers, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from the third-party providers to meet all of our customers’ needs, even if we establish relationships with these third parties. If sufficient resources are unavailable, we will be required to provide these services internally, which could limit our ability to expand our base of customers. Even if we succeed at developing strong relationships with third-party implementation and consulting providers, we will still be subject to significant risk due to the fact that we cannot control the level and quality of service provided by these third parties. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our software products are complex and contain undetected defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments in several geographic markets into which our products are deployed. Despite testing conducted by us and our customers, we have in the past shipped product releases with some defects, some customers have cited possible defects, and we have otherwise discovered other defects in our products after their commercial shipment. Our products are frequently more critical to our customers’ operations compared to other software solutions used by such customers, and, as a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product defects relating to our products. Defects may be found in current or future products and versions after the start of commercial shipment. This could result in: • a delay or failure of our products to achieve market acceptance; • adverse customer reactions; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; • diversion of resources; and • increased service and maintenance costs. Defects could also subject us to legal claims. Although our license agreements contain limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not be sufficient to protect us against these legal claims. The sale and support of our products, as well as our professional services, may also expose us to product liability claims. Greater market acceptance of our competitors’ products or decisions by potential or actual customers to develop their own service management solutions could result in reduced revenues and reduced gross margins. The markets for mobile workforce management applications and the automation of field service delivery are highly competitive, yet fragmented and stratified, although a number of our traditional competitors have been acquired by larger companies. We compete for the business of global or nationwide organizations that seek to support complex and sophisticated products across a variety of industries. We compete in the utilities and telecommunications segments of our markets against companies like Service Power Technologies, plc, Vista Equity Partners (via its acquisition of our competitors MDSI and Indus International), ClickSoftware, Ltd., Telcordia, and Intergraph Corporation. Our primary competitors in commercial and other general field service markets include enterprise application solution providers such as Astea International Inc. and Metrix Inc., along with traditional ERP and CRM software application vendors such as Oracle Corporation and SAP A.G. Many of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages over us. These advantages may include greater technical and financial resources, more developed marketing and service organizations, greater expertise, and broader customer bases and name recognition than us. Our competitors may also be in a better position to devote significant resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, and to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to successfully market their products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidations in the industry. To the extent that we develop new products, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. We cannot assure you that competition will not result in price reductions for our products and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of potential customers have the ability to develop, in conjunction with systems integrators, software solutions internally, thereby eliminating the need for suppliers like us. This could result in reduced revenues or lost business for us. We rely upon software from third parties. If we cannot continue using that software, we would have to spend additional capital to redesign our existing software and may not be able to compete in our markets. We utilize third-party software products to enhance the functionality of our products. Our business would be disrupted if functional versions of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software or develop these components ourselves. If functional versions of third-party software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings, and the commercial release of our products could be delayed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Other than our trademarks, most of our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. 6 Table of Contents In connection with some of our licensing agreements, we have placed, and in the future may place, our software in escrow. The software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers and resellers and this may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We believe that many industry participants have filed or intend to file patent and trademark applications covering aspects of their technology. We cannot be certain that they will not make a claim of infringement against us based on our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause product shipment and installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and even if available on acceptable terms, shall increase our expenses and may materially affect our results of operations adversely. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing and distributing our products outside of the United States and other international operations may require increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We market and sell our products and services in the United States, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and Australia. We received 21% of our total revenue in 2007, 15% of our total revenue in 2008 and 13% of our total revenue in 2009 from sales to customers located outside of the United States. In addition to our operations in the United States, we have sales and support facilities and offices in Israel and Australia. These operations require, and the expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets will require, significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, since our financial results are reported in dollars, decreases in the rate of exchange of non-dollar currencies in which we make sales relative to the dollar will decrease the dollar-based reported value of those sales. To the extent that decreases in exchange rates are not offset by a reduction in our costs, they may materially adversely affect our results of operation. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency-denominated account receivables and expense risks. We are also subject to a number of risks customary for international operations that are described below in the risk factor titled, “Our business may become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations.” We depend on key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could affect our ability to compete, and our ability to attract additional key personnel may also be impaired as a result. Our future success depends on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business significantly. We have employment agreements with our executive officers. Although these agreements generally require notification prior to departure, relationships with these officers and key employees are at will. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business or financial strategy and compete successfully in the marketplace. Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. On February 25, 2002 we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of iMedeon, Inc. (“iMedeon”), a provider of mobile workforce management solutions to the utilities sector, and on July 29, 2004, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Utility Partners, Inc. On June 15, 2005, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of e-Wise Solutions of Melbourne, Australia. We may, in the future, acquire or make investments in other complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise, and we may engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will have sufficient resources to complete such acquisitions or investments, will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or will be able to complete such acquisitions or investments at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, customers, technology or products and service offerings into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, consume cash resources, and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may also incur impairment charges for goodwill and other assets acquired related to acquired companies. Our business may become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. Our facilities are located in North America, Israel, and Australia. This geographic dispersion consumes significant management resources that may place us at a disadvantage compared to our locally based competitors. In addition, our international operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • differing technology standards and language requirements; • changing product and service requirements in response to the formation of economic and marketing unions, including the European Economic Union; • economic or political changes in international markets; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer sales cycles; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • greater dependency on partners; 7 Table of Contents • time zone and cultural differences; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivables and longer collection; and • political and economic instability. We expect international revenue to increase as a percentage of total revenue, and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales and professional services activities in order to be successful. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to expand our international sales management and professional services organizations either through a direct presence in local markets or through channel partners. If we fail to manage our geographically dispersed organization, we may fail to execute our business plan, and our revenues may decline. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares Our Ordinary Shares are quoted on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board and previously were quoted on the Pink Sheets, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of, and trading market for, our Ordinary Shares. On June 12, 2007 our Ordinary Shares were delisted from NASDAQ SmallCap Market (now known as the NASDAQ Capital Market) and became eligible for quotation and trading on the Pink Sheets. On December 14, 2007, our Ordinary Shares became eligible for quotation and trading on the OTCBB under the ticker symbol VRYAF.OB. On September 11, 2008, due to our delinquency with respect to the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, our Ordinary Shares ceased to be eligible for quotation on the OTCBB and were removed from the OTCBB. Following the removal from the OTCBB, our Ordinary Shares became immediately eligible for quotation and trading on the Pink Sheets. On March 4, 2010, our Ordinary Shares became eligible once again for quotation and trading on the OTCBB. The limited volume of trading in our Ordinary Shares on the OTCBB and the Pink Sheets has materially impaired, and may continue to materially impair, the ability of our shareholders to buy and sell our Ordinary Shares, and has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on the market price and the trading market for our Ordinary Shares. Such factors could also significantly impair our ability to raise capital should we desire to do so in the future or to utilize our Ordinary Shares as consideration in acquisitions. Furthermore, should we once again fail to remain current with our Exchange Act reporting, our Ordinary Shares could once again be removed from the OTCBB and be quoted on the Pink Sheets, which would exacerbate the above-identified problems related to liquidity, market price and trading market for our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares increased significantly during the last year, from $0.21 on December 31, 2008 to $1.20 on December 31, 2009, but declined during the first five months of 2010, to $0.95 on May 31, 2010, and may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • the limited volume of trading in our Ordinary Shares on the OTCBB; • any anticipated or actual fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • our inability to meet any guidance or forward looking information, if provided; • public announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; • changes in security analysts’ financial estimates for us or other companies; • changes in generally accepted accounting principles that impact how we calculate our financial results; • sales of our Ordinary Shares by existing shareholders; • the limited market for our shares; • the use of our Ordinary Shares for the acquisition of the outstanding shares or assets of other companies; • our need to raise additional capital through private or public debt or equity financings; • changes in political conditions in Israel; and • the current economic uncertainty in the U.S. and globally. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of such litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in financing our operations and expanding our business, in particular to fund our research and development and sales and marketing activities, which enable us to capitalize on technological changes and new market opportunities. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax impact of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which allows the distribution of dividends out of retained earnings only upon the permission of the court. You should not rely upon an investment in our Ordinary Shares if you require dividend income from your investment. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or issuances of additional securities could cause the market price for our Ordinary Shares to fall. Since August 4, 2003, which marked the initial point at which we needed to raise additional capital after our IPO, the number of shares that we have outstanding has increased substantially. The increase in the number of our outstanding shares has been primarily due to (i) private equity and convertible debt financings which have raised approximately $13.6 million (excluding transaction-related expenses) from 2003 to the present time (see Liquidity and Capital Resources section under Item 5 – 8 Table of Contents How We Have Financed Our Business; Source of Cash), (ii) our acquisition of Utility Partners, Inc. in July 2004, which resulted in the issuance of 179,697 Ordinary Shares, and (iii) our acquisition of e-Wise Solutions in June of 2005, which resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of 111,156 Ordinary Shares. As of June 1, 2010, there were also outstanding warrants to purchase an additional 663,604 of our Ordinary Shares at exercise prices ranging from $1.25 to $10.50 per share, and we have reserved up to 828,000 Ordinary Shares for issuance under our share option plans, under which 36,534 options have been exercised and the restrictions on 400,353 restricted shares have lapsed as of June 1, 2010. In addition, the balance of our convertible debt owed to LibertyView, in a principal amount of $480,000, may be converted by LibertyView at any time into our Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of $11.025 per share. The sale, or availability for sale, of such substantial quantities of our Ordinary Shares may have the effect of further depressing the market price of our stock. In addition, a large number of our Ordinary Shares that were previously subject to resale restrictions are currently eligible or shall soon be eligible for resale into the public market. We may continue to issue equity or convertible securities, and the issuance of such securities could be dilutive to our shareholders. Certain warrants and options, when issued, may be valued at fair value, and we may therefore be required to reflect appropriate charges to our income in our financial statements as of the time of issuance. We have provided registration rights in the past to certain shareholders and may continue to do so in the future, which would ease the resale of Ordinary Shares that would otherwise be subject to securities law resale restrictions, thereby potentially contributing to the depression of the market price of our Ordinary Shares. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities will be able to influence matters requiring shareholder approval and they may disapprove actions that you vote to approve. As of June 1, 2010, our executive officers and directors serving as of such date, and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 52.3% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, which includes Ordinary Shares issuable under options and warrants to purchase Ordinary Shares which are exercisable or will become exercisable within 60 days of June 1, 2010 and all Ordinary Shares which may be issued upon conversion of Preferred A Shares. Such percentage does not take into account restricted Ordinary Shares that have been granted to executive officers and directors, the restrictions related to which will lapse more than 60 days after June 1, 2010. These shareholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Several of our executives, directors, certain research and development employees, and some of the experts upon whom we rely for key services, are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions instituted in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. We are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, which varies in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel will not have a material adverse effect on us or our business and on our share price. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain and although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2010. Recently, there was an escalation in violence among Israel, Hamas, the Palestinian Authority and other groups, as well as extensive hostilities in December 2008 and January 2009 along Israel’s border with the Gaza Strip, which resulted from missiles being fired from the Gaza Strip into Southern Israel. There were also extensive hostilities along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon in the summer of 2006. Ongoing and revived hostilities or other Israeli political or economic factors could harm our operations and cause our revenues to decrease. In addition, Israeli companies and some companies doing business with Israel have been the subject of an economic boycott by Arab countries and their close allies since Israel’s establishment. To date, these matters have not had any material effect on our business and results of operations, but there can be no assurance that they will not have any impact in the future. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, under the age of 45 in some cases, are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36-45 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of such ages are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact that these requirements may have on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, neither can we predict the effect on us that may result from any expansion or reduction of these obligations. We may be adversely affected if the NIS appreciates against the dollar or if the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar is exceeded by the rate of inflation in Israel. Most of our revenues are in U.S. dollars or are linked to the U.S. dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related expenses for our Israeli operations, are incurred in NIS. We do not utilize hedging to manage currency risk, and, therefore, are exposed to the risk that the NIS may appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, or that even if the NIS devaluates in relation to the U.S. dollar, that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed such rate of devaluation or that the timing of such devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Any of such scenarios would result in increased dollar cost of our operations. In 2008 and 2009, the NIS appreciated relative to the dollar by approximately 1.1% and 0.7% respectively, and the Israeli consumer price index furthermore increased at the rate of 3.8% and 3.9% respectively, thereby further escalating the increase in the dollar cost of our Israeli operations. NIS-linked balance sheet items may create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, thereby affecting our net income and earnings per share. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of appreciation or devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Tax benefits that are available to us from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our future tax expenses. We receive tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as approved enterprises. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions stipulated in applicable law and in our specific approvals, including making specified investments in fixed assets and employing minimum number of skilled employees. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates, and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. We may submit requests for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of 9 Table of Contents difficult economic conditions in Israel. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for an investment that qualifies for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Israeli courts have in the past required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. From time to time we have received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel (“OCS”) under the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, or the Research and Development Law, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The terms of these grants prohibit us from manufacturing more than 10% of the products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approval. Even if we receive approval to manufacture these products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties, up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the portion of the total manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel. A recent amendment to the Research and Development Law further permits the OCS, among other things, to approve the transfer of manufacturing rights to outside of Israel in exchange for an import of different manufacturing into Israel as a substitute, in lieu of the increased royalties. The Research and Development Law also allows for the approval of grants in cases in which the applicant declares that part of the manufacturing will be performed outside of Israel or by non-Israeli residents and the research committee is convinced that doing so is essential for the execution of the program. This declaration will be a significant factor in the determination of the OCS whether to approve a program and the amount and other terms of benefits to be granted. For example, the increased royalty rate and repayment amount will be required in such cases. If we elect to transfer more than an insubstantial portion of our manufacturing processes to contractors outside of Israel, we may be required to obtain the consent of the OCS and pay higher royalties to the OCS. The Research and Development Law also provides that the technology and know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to third parties inside or outside of Israel without the approval of the OCS (and, in the case of a transfer outside of Israel, absent certain circumstances). Such approval is not required for the sale or export of any products resulting from such research or development. Even if we receive approval to a transfer of technology outside of Israel, a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer equal to the ratio of the aggregate amount of OCS grants received by us to the aggregate amount of all cash investments made in such technology, including the OCS grants, must be paid to the OCS. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties, and we may be subject to criminal charges. Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company in 2009, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company in 2010 or in future years. We would be a passive foreign investment company if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including the pro rata share of the gross income of any company, US or foreign, in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (or possibly the adjusted bases of our assets in particular circumstances), including the pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, in a taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a passive foreign investment company, many of our shareholders will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including: • taxation at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during a shareholder’s holding period on some distributions on our Ordinary Shares and gain from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares; • the obligation to pay interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and • no increase in the tax basis for our Ordinary Shares to fair market value at the date of a shareholder’s death. 