D. RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks all of which are inherent in pharmaceutical discovery and development and resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which could include the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations, and accordingly our share price may decline. We can give no assurance that we will successfully address any of these risks. The principal risks are described below. Risks Related to our Business, Financial Results and Financing Needs We cannot provide assurance that our business model will succeed in generating substantial revenues. Our business model is primarily based on receiving revenues in the form of fees, research revenues, milestones, royalties and other revenue sharing payments from the commercialization of drug and diagnostic products by third parties based on product candidates (i) discovered by us and then licensed to such third parties, and/or (ii) discovered pursuant to various forms of collaborations with such third parties whereby our discovery platforms or other discovery capabilities target areas of their interest. To date, third party arrangements with respect to product candidates discovered by us have only been entered into at an early, proof of concept stage which has an inherent risk of high failure rate. Furthermore, these initial collaborations were based on product candidate discoveries, both therapeutics and diagnostics, that were made during the process of establishing individual predictive discovery capabilities prior to having a sufficiently broad and integrated infrastructure of such capabilities to allow a “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” discovery process. Following establishment and validation of the required infrastructure, during 2010, a program was initiated to predict and select novel molecules in specific areas of high interest in both oncology and immunology. Therapeutic product candidates resulting from this “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” effort are being validated and advanced forward in the preclinical stage prior to licensing or other collaborations (our “Pipeline Program”). To date, revenues related to our initial collaborations have been minimal, and we have had no revenues from our new Pipeline Program. We cannot be certain this business model will generate a stable or significant revenue stream. The inability to derive adequate revenues from our business model would significantly impede improvement in our operating results and liquidity or even result in the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations. 6 We have a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2012, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $194 million and had incurred net losses of approximately $7 million in 2010, approximately $12 million in 2011, and approximately $14 million in 2012. To date, we have received only minimal revenues from limited commercialization efforts with respect to molecules discovered during our infrastructure building period, and we expect to continue to incur net losses in the future due to the costs and expenses associated with our expanding research and development activities, including our recently initiated “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” focused product candidate discovery, our increasing Pipeline Program activities, our Compugen USA Inc. activities, and the development, validation and integration of additional discovery platforms. To date no commercial arrangements have been established with respect to our Pipeline Program molecules. We cannot be certain that we will ever enter into such arrangements, or that such arrangements will provide sufficient revenues to achieve profitability, and even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We may need to raise additional funds in the future, and if we are unable to raise such needed additional funds, we may need to curtail or cease operations. To the extent any such funding is based on the sale of equity, our existing shareholders would experience dilution of their shareholdings. We believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits will be sufficient to fund our operations for at least the next 12 months. However, we cannot predict with any degree of certainty when, or even if, we will achieve profitability and therefore may need additional funds to continue financing our discovery, validation, development and commercialization activities. Additional funds, including proceeds from commercialization agreements or from the sale of shares we hold in Evogene Ltd. (traded on the TASE), or from our current ATM program or from other financings, may not be available to us when needed on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, the terms of any financing may adversely affect the holdings or the rights of our existing shareholders. For example, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our existing shareholders would experience dilution of their shareholdings. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that could limit our flexibility in conducting future business activities. If we are unable to obtain funding on a timely basis, we may be required to significantly curtail one or more of our research or development programs. We also could be required to seek funds through arrangements with collaborators or others that may require us to relinquish rights to some of our technologies or product candidates on terms that would otherwise not be acceptable to us. Any failure to raise capital when needed would materially harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Pipeline Program will require additional resources that may not be available. In 2010 we initiated our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we are both (i) substantially increasing the number of predicted and selected therapeutic candidates being evaluated by us, and (ii) taking certain therapeutic candidates beyond their validation stage (of either disease animal model for Fc fusion proteins or drug target expression profile for monoclonal antibodies (“mAbs”) targets) into preclinical activities for Fc fusion proteins and to disease animal models for therapeutic mAbs against the targets, and in selected cases, possibly clinical evaluation. Assuming a similar level of success as we experienced in the past in the initial validation stages, this may result in multiple product candidates reaching more costly stages of development in parallel. If we are not able to secure the funding required for these more advanced activities, we may be required to abandon, postpone, or attempt to license out certain molecules at an earlier than anticipated stage, which may result in a substantial reduction in the potential returns from the Pipeline Program, or even result in the inability to have some or all of such successful “proof of concept” therapeutic candidates further developed and commercialized. 7 We operate in a rapidly developing field and will be required to allocate substantial additional funds in the future to our research activities. Our drug and diagnostic product candidate discovery capabilities rely on a proprietary infrastructure of predictive models, algorithms and other computational tools incorporating proprietary knowledge of key biological phenomena. Life science today is a rapidly changing field with substantial research being undertaken on a worldwide basis both by academia and industry. In order to maintain our competitive position in predictive discovery, we must continue to allocate resources to broadening and deepening our scientific infrastructure. Any inability to allocate such resources when needed could materially harm our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We have a limited operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model upon which investors can base an investment decision or upon which to predict future revenues. Our ability to generate revenues from collaboration and licensing activities for current and future product candidate discoveries, primarily in the form of fees, research revenues, milestones, royalties and other revenue sharing payments remains untested to date and we have received only minimal revenues from our initial collaborations, having recognized $1.1 million of such revenue in 2010, none in 2011 and $242,000 in 2012. Furthermore, only in 2010 did we implement our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we are advancing certain therapeutic product candidates past disease animal model proof of concept or other validation studies towards pre-clinical studies and in selected cases, possibly early stage clinical activities. Therefore we have no direct experience with respect to the financial terms that may be available for our candidates at these stages of development, and reported financial terms for agreements by other companies vary greatly and mostly are undisclosed. Therefore, our operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model provides an extremely limited basis for you to assess our ability to generate significant fees, research revenues, milestones, or royalties and other revenue sharing payments from the licensing and commercialization of our product candidate discoveries, or from research and development collaborations, and therefore on the advisability of investing in our securities. Risks Related to our Discovery and Development Activities We are focusing our discovery activities on Fc fusion proteins, mAb drug targets, and mAb therapeutics, for uses in oncology and immunology, including both auto-immune and inflammatory disease. If we fail to continue to discover product candidates of industry interest in these fields, or to focus our Pipeline Program efforts on the most promising such discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. In spite of the broad applicability of our discovery infrastructure, we have chosen to focus our discovery activities on Fc fusion proteins, mAb drug targets and mAb therapeutics for use in oncology and immunology, including both auto-immune and inflammatory conditions. By making this decision we have elected not to continue at present any internal development in other areas, such as diagnostic products and peptide based drugs, and to pursue such opportunities only in collaboration with third parties. Although certain of our initial discoveries in our fields of focus are generating interest from potential partners, all such candidates are at early stages of development, and there is no assurance that we will be able to consummate any collaboration or agreement on reasonable terms or at all. In addition, if we fail to continue to discover product candidates of industry interest in these fields, or to focus our Pipeline Program validation and development efforts on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. There are many risks associated with this decision of focusing in these areas that include, among others: · not utilizing all of our discovery capabilities; · choosing therapeutic areas with a very high degree of competition; · choosing therapeutic areas of great complexity and with very high failure rates in product development; · failing to successfully focus our discovery infrastructure to discover novel product candidates in our chosen therapeutics areas; · having insufficient relevant knowledge in our chosen therapeutic areas to select the right unmet needs or candidates, or to properly and efficiently further them in development · the inherent risk of high program failure rate in early stage therapeutic development In each case, our failure could be due to lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, with the possible result that no selected candidates result in licensed or marketable products in these fields. If any of these risks should materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. 8 Our predictive discovery capabilities remain unproven with respect to yielding marketable products. If in further development and clinical evaluation, all, or a larger percentage than typically seen in industry experience, of our product candidates fail to prove sufficiently safe and efficient for regulatory approval and marketing, our business will be significantly harmed. Our in silico (by computer) predictive approach to drug discovery remains unproven with respect to yielding marketable products and to date, our validation efforts for our initial discoveries have been limited to in vitro testing and in vivo testing using animal disease models. These discovery capabilities, which are designed to predict and select potential product candidates in many different therapeutic and diagnostic areas of interest, rely on the modeling, by our scientists, of complex biological processes, both physiological and pathological. This modeling is partial and may prove insufficient to result in true predictions of the biological processes as they occur naturally. If in further development and clinical evaluation, all, or a larger percentage than typically seen in industry experience, of our initial product candidates fail to prove sufficiently safe and efficacious for regulatory approval and marketing, our business will be significantly harmed. Our in silico predictive approach to drug discovery typically results in a significant number of putative discoveries of interest with each discovery program. If we or our partners fail to select the right candidates to validate and/or progress, due to either lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in marketable products and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially harmed. Our in silico predictive approach to drug discovery typically results in a significant number of putative discoveries of interest with each discovery program. Following each such discovery run, we assess which of such putative discoveries to move forward with initiation of validation based on various scientific and business criteria, and this assessment continues on an on-going basis. In addition, since our research and development resources are limited we are able to progress with only a fraction of our discoveries in parallel. If at any stage in such assessment, we or our partners fail to select the right candidates to validate and/or progress, due to either lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in marketable products, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. If either the predictive discovery approach in general, or our “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” approach, does not prove to be successful, our business will be significantly harmed. Our method of discovering novel product candidates involves first selecting – either on our own or with a partner company - an unmet therapeutic need where we believe our predictive capabilities would be relevant, or could be modified to be relevant. In this “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” approach, our goal is to harness all of our relevant capabilities in order to address the specific unmet need, rather than obtaining product candidates resulting from the development, validation or initial runs of a single discovery platform, as was the case prior to initiation of our Pipeline Program. After selection of the unmet need we wish to address, we then focus all of our discovery platforms, algorithms and other computational biology capabilities to predict in silico (i.e. by computer) sequences for a typically large number of possible product candidates. Next we utilize proprietary algorithms and tools and other methodologies to select, from this large number of possibilities, those novel molecules that we believe have the highest probability of success. Selected molecules are then produced and undergo in vitro and/or in vivo validation testing. Although our “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” approach has resulted in the discovery of a number of novel molecules in an area of significant industry interest, these molecules are in the very early stages of development. Therefore, we cannot predict whether this “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” approach will continue to yield product candidates or that any of our existing discoveries or future discoveries will be suitable for final development into therapeutic products. If either the predictive discovery approach in general does not prove to be successful, or this “Therapeutics Needs (market) driven” approach does not lead to successful product candidates, our business will be significantly harmed. 9 Our focus on the Pipeline Program has resulted in a substantial increase in activities, certain of which we will undertake for the first time and may result in product candidate failures, or fewer molecules being available for commercialization. Prior to 2010, Compugen’s in vitro and in vivo validation studies concluded with disease animal model or drug target expression profile analysis. At the completion of such activities, or earlier, Compugen initiated its efforts to enter into collaborations for such molecules. This is at an earlier stage than is typical for licensing in the pharmaceutical industry. Pursuant to the Pipeline Program initiated in 2010, we have undertaken a substantial increase in the number of molecules being validated. In addition, certain molecules are now being advanced further towards pre-clinical activities, with the possibility of selected molecules entering clinical evaluation in the future. This decision to advance further with certain molecules is requiring us to undertake certain activities for the first time and may result in product candidate failures during such additional activities, either due to our lack of expertise or due to unsupportive findings. Furthermore, due to our limited resources, we must choose which Pipeline Program molecules we advance further towards pre-clinical, and in selected cases possibly clinical activities in the future. This could result in fewer molecules being available for commercialization, due to our available resources being insufficient to further advance all programs. In addition, if we fail to select the right molecules to advance further, due to either lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in a marketable product. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We have limited experience in the development of therapeutic product candidates. Our experience in the development of therapeutic product candidates is limited. In order to successfully develop and commercialize therapeutic products, we must either access such expertise via collaborations or service providers or improve our internal expertise, capabilities and facilities. We may not be able to maintain and/or engage any or all of the experts that we need in order to do so. If we fail to have available at the appropriate times the required experience and expertise for the further development and commercialization of our therapeutic product candidates, we may be unsuccessful in these activities, and as a result our business would be materially harmed. Our establishment of our own therapeutic mAb development capabilities contains a number of risks. In 2012, we announced that we had established our own therapeutic mAb development capabilities, in order to develop mAb therapeutics against the target candidates that we discovered. The establishment of such in-house capabilities contains a number of risks, including, without limitation, the need for additional resources and funding in order to maintain such capabilities and the need to identify additional qualified employees and consultants in order to further advance these capabilities. Furthermore, although the scientists we have hired have prior experience with other organizations in the field of therapeutic mAbs development, we have no experience as a company in this field. In addition, following the establishment of our mAb operations, the chairperson of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiary, Compugen USA, Inc. assumed the additional position of chief executive officer of another mAb discovery and development company, which although not at present directly competitive, could present, in the future, potential conflict of interest issues. There are risks that are inherent in the development and commercialization of therapeutic products, and if these risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We and our collaborators face a number of risks of failure that are inherent in the process of developing and commercializing therapeutic products. These risks, which typically result in a very high failure rate for even companies with a proven success record, include, among others, the possibility that: · the product candidates will be found to be pharmacologically ineffective; · the product candidates will be found to be toxic or to have other unacceptable side effects; · the product candidates will not show added value compared to competing products; · our mAb targets will prove to be inappropriate targets for mAb therapeutics; · we or our collaborators will fail to receive required regulatory approvals; · we will not be able to differentiate between some of our product candidates; · we or our collaborators will fail to manufacture our product candidates in the quantity or quality needed for preclinical studies or clinical trials on a large scale in a cost effective manner; · our early stage commercialization efforts may provoke competition by potential partners; · the commercialization of our product candidates may infringe third party intellectual property rights; 10 · the development, marketing or sale of our product candidates will fail because of our inability or failure to protect or maintain our own intellectual property rights; and/or · once a product is launched on the market, there will be little or no demand for it for a number of reasons including lack of acceptance by the medical community or by patients, lack of or insufficient coverage and payment by third party payors, or as a result of there being more attractive products available for use. If one or more of these risks or any similar risks should materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. Under the agreements with Baize Investments (Israel) Ltd. entered in December 2010 and December 2011, as amended, we may have to share in any future economic success of certain product candidates. We have entered into two agreements with Baize Investments (Israel) Ltd., or Baize, pursuant to which Baize has provided funding to Compugen in exchange for a future financial interest in certain product candidates. Under the first agreement we entered into with Baize on December 29, 2010 (hereinafter referred to as the 2010 Baize Agreement), Baize provided $5 million in funding and received the right to receive ten percent (which amount may be reduced under certain circumstances) of certain cash consideration received by us pursuant to any licenses for the development and commercialization of products developed from five designated product candidates then in our Pipeline Program. Under this agreement, at any time through June 30, 2013, Baize may waive in its entirety its right to receive the cash consideration in exchange for 833,333 of our ordinary shares. Under the second agreement we entered into with Baize on December 20, 2011, as amended on July 24, 2012 and December 27, 2012 (hereinafter referred to as the 2011 Baize Agreement), Baize paid $3 million and has agreed to pay an additional $5 million or $7.5 million on or before April 30, 2013. In consideration for these funds, Baize has the right to receive a financial interest in six therapeutic mAb product candidates (if Baize pays an additional $5 million) or eight such candidates (if Baize pays an additional $7.5 million), in each case that achieve specific milestones or are licensed out prior to December 31, 2014, or such date as may be extended pursuant to the terms of the agreement. In addition, during the first quarter of 2015, Baize has the right to exchange its right to receive the financial interest in the therapeutic mAb product candidates for our ordinary shares pursuant to a formula based on the trading price of our ordinary shares at such time as set forth in the 2011 Baize Agreement. If Baize fails to make the required additional payment on or before April 30, 2013, we have the right to terminate the 2011 Baize Agreement and Baize will not be entitled to any financial interest in the mAb product candidates, other than a potential cumulative maximum total of $1.5 million on or after May 1, 2013. If any of the product candidates designated under the 2010 Baize Agreement or the 2011 Baize Agreement are successfully licensed, developed or commercialized, and Baize has not elected to exchange its right to receive a financial interest under the related respective agreement as set forth above for our ordinary shares, we will need to provide Baize with a percentage of certain related potential cash consideration received by us, for such product candidates, thus reducing the amount of revenues from such transactions remaining for the benefit of our shareholders. If Baize does not complete its payment obligations under the 2011 Baize Agreement, we may need to make up the cash shortfall from other sources. Under the 2011 Baize Agreement as currently amended, Baize has agreed to pay Compugen an additional $5 million or $7.5 million on or before April 30, 2013. If Baize does not complete its payment obligations under this agreement, we may be required to utilize other cash resources to make up the shortfall, thus negatively impacting our financial strength and increasing the probability that we would need to raise additional capital. Risks Related to Development, Clinical Testing and Government Regulation We or our collaborators may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for any product that we or a collaborator may develop. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may attempt to develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations, including those relating to development, performance of clinical trials, manufacturing and post-approval commercialization. Preclinical testing, manufacturing and controls and clinical trials, among other activities, will be subjected to an extensive regulatory review process before a new therapeutic product can be sold in the United States. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. 11 Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement among other things. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. Therefore, it is possible that none of the therapeutic products we or our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to sell them. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. If we or our collaborators fail to obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to sell them, or if the approvals are for limited use, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. It may be difficult to manufacture therapeutic products based on our technologies. Our Pipeline Program is focused on protein and mAbs therapeutics in the fields of immunology and oncology. Protein and mAb-based therapeutics can be difficult to manufacture. If it should prove to be difficult to manufacture any therapeutics based on out technologies in sufficient quantities to conduct clinical trials and to commercialize any approved therapeutic candidate, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially harmed. If we or our collaborators, or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future, fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the marketability of Compugen-discovered therapeutics and may significantly harm our financial status and/or reputation. If we or our collaborators or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell therapeutic products based on our discoveries and could significantly harm our financial status and/or reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such products by the market or product recall. These enforcement actions may include: · warning letters; · recalls, product seizures or medical product safety alerts; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing such tests or products; · restrictions on importation of such tests or products; · suspension of review or refusal to accept or approve new or pending applications; · withdrawal of product approvals; · injunctions; · civil and criminal penalties and fines; and · debarment or other exclusions from government programs. If we do not comply with laws regulating the use of human tissues or the conduct of experiments involving animals, our business could be adversely affected. We use human tissue samples and conduct experiments involving animals for the purpose of development and validation of our technologies and product candidates. Our access to and use of human tissue samples and the conduct of experiments involving animals are subject to government regulation in the United States, Israel and elsewhere and may become subject to further regulation. For example, the Israeli Ministry of Health requires compliance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration, the Public Health Regulations (Clinical Trials in Human Subjects) 1980, the Genetic Information Law, 5761-2000, the provisions of the Guidelines for Clinical Trials in Human Subjects and the provisions of the current Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice. Our failure to comply with these or similar regulations could impact our business and results of operations. 12 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials and chemicals, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities. Although we believe our safety and other procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our facilities comply with applicable governmental regulations and guidelines, the risk to our employees or others of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Risks Related to Our Dependence on Third Parties Our reliance on third parties for the performance of key research, validation and development activities heightens the risks faced by our businesses. We invest a significant amount of effort and resources into outsourcing certain key functions with third parties, including certain research, validation and development activities, manufacturing operations, and others. We do not control the third parties to whom we outsource these functions, but we depend on them to undertake activities and provide results which may be significant to us. If these third parties fail to properly perform these activities, or provide us with incorrect or incomplete results this could lead to significant delays in the program or even program failure, along with significant additional costs. In addition, should any of these third parties fail to comply with the applicable laws and regulations and/or research and development or manufacturing accepted standards in the course of their performance of services for us, there is a risk that we could be held responsible for such violations of law, as well. Any such failures by third parties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We depend significantly on third parties to carry out the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and if we are unable to maintain our existing agreements or to enter into additional agreements with such third parties in the future, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our primary strategy for the final development and commercialization of products based on our product candidates depends on third parties to carry out and/or finance development and commercialization of such products based on our product candidates, principally, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies and other healthcare related organizations. To date, we have entered into a small number of agreements covering discovery activities to be performed by us, and development and commercialization rights with respect to certain of our discovery stage product candidates. None of the product candidates subject to such agreements has advanced beyond the discovery and early pre-clinical stage and we cannot be assured that any of these agreements will result in the successful development or commercialization of any products. Further, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in identifying additional suitable parties or entering into any other additional agreements for the development and/or commercialization of our product candidates. If we are unable to identify such additional suitable parties or enter into new agreements, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our dependence on collaboration agreements with third parties presents a number of risks, and if one or more of these risks materialize, our business may be materially harmed. The risks that we face in connection with our existing collaborations, licenses and other business alliances as well as those that we may enter into in the future include, among others, the following: · we may be unable to comply or fully comply with our obligations under collaboration agreements into which we enter, and as a result, we may not generate royalties or milestone payments from such agreements, and our ability to enter into additional agreements may be harmed; 13 · our collaborators have significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of the planned activities and the manner in which it will be done; · our collaborators may fail to design and implement appropriate preclinical and/or clinical trials; · our collaborators may fail to manufacture our product candidates needed for either clinical trials or for commercial purposes on a sufficiently large scale and/or in a cost effective manner; · our collaborators may fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries due to various regulatory restrictions; · our collaborators may fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries prior to the successful marketing of competing products by others or prior to expiry of the patents protecting such products; · we may not be able to control our collaborators’ willingness to pursue development of our product candidates, or the amount of resources that our collaborators will devote to the collaboration; · changes in a collaborator’s business strategy may negatively affect its willingness or ability to complete its obligations under its arrangement or to continue with its collaboration with us; · ownership of the intellectual property generated under our collaborations may be disputed; · our ownership of rights in any intellectual property or products that may result from our collaborations may depend on additional investment of money that we may not be able or willing to make; · prospective collaborators may pursue alternative products or technologies, by internally developing them or by preferring those of our competitors; · disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in, or termination of, the collaboration; and · our collaborators may fail to develop or commercialize successfully any products based on discoveries or product candidates to which they have obtained rights from us. If any of these risks should materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We rely on the services of various third party service providers, such as contract research organizations, or CROs, contract manufacturing organizations, or CMOs, technology providers, and academia. If we fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, our discovery, and validation and development capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out discovery, validation and development activities for our product candidates, we and our partners rely on advice, services and results obtained from various third party service providers, such as CROs, CMOs, technology providers, academia and regulatory and other consultants. This includes, without limitation, production of certain biological reagents and performance of certain in vitro and in vivo validation of our discoveries and product candidates. We do not always independently verify the results obtained by such third parties and in some cases, rely upon the data provided by the third party. If we fail to identify and obtain accurate and quality services and/or technologies from such third parties, or if the contractual demands of such third parties become unreasonable and we are not able to reach satisfactory agreements with such third parties, we may not be able to obtain the required services and/or technologies, in which event we may lose our investment in these services, fail to receive the expected benefits from our discoveries, and our validation and development capabilities may be significantly harmed or delayed. We have limited experience and capabilities in conducting, managing, or sponsoring preclinical evaluation of therapeutic drug candidates. During 2010, we began to focus our discovery efforts primarily in the fields of immunology and oncology, and initiated the Pipeline Program to both substantially increase the number of molecules in our validation pipeline and to increase the value of certain of our candidates by advancing selected molecules to pre-clinical studies and in selected cases, possibly clinical evaluation. We have limited experience and capabilities in conducting, managing, or sponsoring the work and efforts required beyond the proof of concept experimental validation stage towards preclinical evaluation, and by doing so we will need to rely on our consultants and third party service providers. If we fail to identify the right consultants or service providers, if the consultants or service providers fail in providing the required services or if we fail to take the necessary steps towards preclinical evaluation, for these or other reasons, our business may be harmed. 14 We have no experience in conducting or managing clinical trials for potential therapeutic products. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for any product, and we intend to rely on our collaborators or third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform these functions. Our reliance on third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet required performance standards or expected deadlines, we might be required to replace them or the data that they provide could be rejected, all of which may result in a delay of the affected trial and additional program costs. We rely on access to public and commercial databases to feed our discovery capabilities, including our individual discovery platforms. If we are denied access to these databases or if the quality of available information is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, as has occurred in the past, our operations and business may be harmed. In the development and validation of our discovery platforms and other tools, as well as in connection with the resulting therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use public and commercially available databases. The quality of our platforms, tools and discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of the data in these databases. If we are denied access to these databases, or if we are granted access to such databases on terms which are not commercially reasonable, or if the quality of data available from those databases is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, each of which has occurred in the past, our business and our results of operations may be materially harmed. We rely on access to high-quality biological samples supported by detailed clinical records to conduct parts of our discovery and validation activities. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason, or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, which has occurred in the past, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and validation of product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use commercially available biological samples. The quality of our discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of available biological samples. If we fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, which has occurred in the past, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. Risks Related to Competition and Commercialization Our business model is at an early stage of implementation and to date has not provided significant revenues. The success of our business model relies on providing, through licensing agreements and other forms of collaboration, product candidates for commercialization by third parties, principally pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In all cases, our objective is that these collaborations will be “product oriented”, with us having the right to receive fees, research revenues, milestones, and royalties and other revenue-sharing payments from all products developed and commercialized based on our product candidates. Additionally, we are continuing to seek research and discovery collaborations either aimed at harnessing our infrastructure capabilities towards the partners’ discovery needs, or pursuant to which we can license out our various non-focus specific discoveries of interest. Potential revenue sources in these types of transactions could include fees, research revenues, milestone payments and royalties. Our commercialization efforts are at an early stage of implementation. To date, we have entered into only a small number of collaboration agreements, none of which has to date provided significant revenues, and there can be no assurance that such agreements will be successful in the future or that we will be able to enter into additional arrangements with respect to other current or future discoveries. If we are unable to achieve success, primarily with entering into license agreements or other collaboration arrangements related to our product candidates, or to enter into agreements with sufficient future returns, our business will be materially harmed. 15 In addition, most of our programs are in the discovery stage, with the leading program in the lead optimization stage. The data generated so far may not be sufficient to prospective collaborators, and may not fit their strategy. A limited number of companies are interested in early stage collaborations, and some of them will require more data before they enter into a significant collaboration. We are therefore dependent on the fit to pharma strategy and we may not be able to identify a partner interested in programs at the stage we are in. This may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. The agreement cycle for potential collaborations is complex and lengthy and as a result, we may expend substantial funds and management resources with no assurance of success. In general, each potential license agreement or other form of collaboration will require negotiating with our potential partner a large number of scientific, legal and business terms and conditions that can vary significantly in each instance due to the specific product candidate or candidates involved, and our potential partner’s licensing, development and business operations and strategy. The accommodation of these requirements mandates a thorough consideration of both the scientific and business aspects of each transaction. Furthermore, the diversity and wide applicability of our discovery capabilities and our product candidates, together with the fact that we are located in Israel, adds additional levels of complexity to our business development efforts. As a result, the process of preparing and negotiating our licensing and other agreements may take more than 12 months and will require the input and substantial time and effort of our key scientific and management personnel. Accordingly, we will need to expend substantial funds and substantial key personnel time and effort into these business development activities with no assurance of successfully entering into agreements with potential collaborators and this could harm our business. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries. Although this consolidation trend is diminishing, it may still result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with us, we may lose the interest of the consolidating parties in our discovery capabilities or individual discoveries as a result of a modified strategy and new priorities of such consolidated entity. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries in general, and the immune checkpoints field in particular, are highly competitive. Numerous entities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere compete with our efforts to discover, validate and partner with licensees and/or collaborators to commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic products or product candidates. Our competitors include pharmaceutical, biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and governmental and other publicly funded agencies. We face, and expect to continue to face, competition from these entities to the extent they develop products that have a function similar or identical to the function of our therapeutic product candidates in the fields of oncology and immunology that may attract our potential collaborators or that may reach the market sooner. We also face, and expect to continue to face, competition from entities that seek to develop technologies that enable the discovery of novel Fc fusion proteins and antibodies in the fields of oncology and immunology. Many of our competitors have: · much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization process; · more extensive experience in preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing and marketing diagnostics and therapeutics; 16 · more extensive experience in oncology and immunology and in the fields of mAb therapy and proteins therapeutics; · products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and · collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Since we are a small company with limited human and financial resources, we are not able to work with a large number of collaborators in parallel and/or advance a large number of molecules in parallel. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any therapeutic products we, our collaborators or third-party licensees may develop. They may also obtain patents and other intellectual property rights before us and thereby prevent us from pursuing the development and commercialization of our discoveries. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in developing and/or commercializing products than we, our collaborators, or third party licensees are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. If we are unable to compete successfully against existing or potential competitors, our financial results and business would be materially harmed. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and impact sales of, and reimbursement for, our products. Our ability to commercialize our future product candidates successfully, alone or with collaborators, will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for these product candidates will be available from government health programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid in the U.S., private health insurers and other third-party payors. At present, significant changes in healthcare policy, in particular the continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors to contain or reduce health care costs are being discussed, considered and proposed. For example, in the United States, there have been several initiatives implemented to achieve these aims. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act(the “Healthcare Reform Act”), substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs and reimbursement changes which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. While in general it is too early to predict specifically what effect these acts and their implementation or any future healthcare reform legislation or policies in the U.S. or other countries will have on our business, including our ability to set prices for our product candidates which we believe are fair, and therefore our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability, current and future healthcare reform legislation and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Risks Related to our Operations We may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or sufficiently qualified employees, in which case our business may be harmed. Our business is highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. While members of our senior management and other key personnel have entered into employment or consulting agreements and non-competition and non-disclosure agreements, we cannot assure you that these key personnel and others will not leave us or compete with us, which could harm our business activities and operations. It is difficult to find suitable and highly qualified personnel in certain aspects of our industry. It can be difficult for us to find employees with appropriate experience for our business. We require a multidisciplinary approach and our researchers require experience in both exact and biological sciences. On average, our employees have been employed by Compugen eight years. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to retain our key personnel, or to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. 17 We may be unable to safeguard the integrity, security and confidentiality of our data or third parties’ data, and if we are unable to do so, our business may be harmed. We rely heavily on the use and manipulation of large amounts of data and on the secure and continuous use of our internal computers, communication networks and software and hardware systems. We have implemented and maintain physical and software security measures to preserve and protect our computers, communication, and hardware and software systems as well as our data and third parties’ data. However, these methods may not fully protect us against fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins or similar events. In addition, these measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access, use or publication of such proprietary data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate or destroy (partially or completely) proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. In addition, a party, including an employee, who obtains unauthorized access to our proprietary data or breaches a confidentiality agreement with us could publish or transfer large portions or all of our proprietary data. Such publication of proprietary data could materially harm our intellectual property position, thereby seriously harming our competitive position. Such security breaches, if significant, could harm our operations and even cause our business to cease. If we are unable to manage the challenges associated with our bi-national operations, the growth of our business could be limited. In addition to our operations in Israel, our wholly owned subsidiary, Compugen USA Inc., operates in South San Francisco, California. We are subject to a number of risks and challenges that specifically relate to these bi-national operations. Our combined operations may not be successful if we are unable to meet and overcome these challenges, which could limit the growth of our business and may have an adverse effect on our business and operating results. These risks include: · difficulty managing coordinating operations in multiple locations, which could adversely affect the progress of our development programs and business prospects; · local regulations or intellectual property requirements that may restrict or impair our ability to conduct pharmaceutical and biotechnology-based research and development; · foreign protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; · laws and regulations governing U.S. immigration and entry into the United States that may restrict free movement of our employees between Israel and the United States; · laws and regulations governing U.S. immigration and entry into the United States that may restrict employment of Israeli citizens in our U.S. facilities; and · fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that may increase the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in either country. Risks Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our inventions and if we fail to do so, our business will likely be materially harmed. We have applied for patents covering therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates as well as aspects of some of our technologies, and the success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our ability to obtain and maintain such patents and any additional patents covering our future product candidates. As of January 1, 2013 we had a total of 30 issued patents, of which 27 are U.S. patents. We also have pending patent applications, which as of January 1, 2013, included 21 patent applications that have been filed in the United States, 15 patent applications that have been filed in Europe, 12 patent applications that have been filed in Israel, seven patent applications that have been filed in Australia, seven patent applications that have been filed in Canada, three patent applications that have been filed in Japan, three patent applications that have been filed in India, two patent applications that have been filed in China and six applications that have been filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty for which we have not yet designated the countries of filing. We plan to continue to apply for patent protection for our therapeutic and diagnostic inventions, but we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be accepted, or that they will be accepted to the extent that we seek. Additionally, we file for patent protection in selected countries and not in all countries of the world. Therefore, we are exposed to competition in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Also, due to our early stage business model, we may be required to seek patent protection at a very early stage. This may cause issuance of a patent at an earlier stage creating a shorter commercialization period under patent protection, possibly enabling others to compete with us. 18 The process of obtaining patents for inventions that cover our products is uncertain for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: · the patenting of our inventions involves complex legal issues, many of which have not yet been settled; · legislative and judicial changes, or changes in the examination guidelines of governmental patent offices may negatively affect our ability to obtain molecule-based patents; · in view of the finite number of human proteins, we face intense competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies who have already sought patent protection relating to proteins and protein based products, as well as therapeutic and diagnostic antibodies specifically binding these proteins, and their utilities based discoveries that we may intend to develop and commercialize; such prior patents may negatively affect our ability to obtain protein-based and antibody-based patents, may hinder our ability to obtain sufficiently broad patent claims for our inventions, and/or may limit our freedom to operate for our inventions; · publication of large amounts of genomic data by non-commercial and commercial entities may hinder our ability to obtain sufficiently broad patent claims for our inventions; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, such protection may not be sufficient to prevent third parties from using our patented inventions; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, our patents could be partially or wholly invalidated, including by our competitors; · there are significant costs that may need to be incurred in registering and filing patents; and · our data may support others in strengthening their patents. If we do not succeed in obtaining patent protection for our inventions to the fullest extent for which we seek protection, our business and financial results could be materially harmed. We may find that we file patent applications too early, thus having our proprietary information in the public too early which will may allow competition and shorten our programs’ lead time. In addition, such premature filings could result in insufficient enablement of our inventions and consequently may hinder our ability to obtain valid patent claims for our inventions. Because patent applications filed in the United States and Patent Cooperation Treaty countries publish 18 months after the priority date, the sooner an application is filed, the sooner a potential competitor will be able to access the information disclosed therein. Thus, early filing and subsequent early publication allows a potential competitor to begin developing competing work-around or generic products. Further, once a US application publishes, the file history becomes publicly available at the United States Patent and Trademark Office’s patent application information retrieval (PAIR) website. Thus, potential competitors may access any statements we make in arguing patentability with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. Additionally, prematurely filed applications may not be enabled for all that we wish to claim. The purpose of the enablement requirement that the specification describe the invention in such terms that one skilled in the art can make and use the claimed invention is to ensure that the invention is communicated to the interested public in a meaningful way. The information contained in the disclosure of an application must be sufficient to inform those skilled in the relevant art how to both make and use the claimed invention. Additionally, the written description requirement, separate and distinct from the enablement requirement, necessitates that a patent specification describe the claimed invention in sufficient detail such that one skilled in the art can reasonably conclude that the inventor had possession of the claimed invention. An applicant shows possession of the claimed invention by describing the claimed invention with all of its limitations using such descriptive means as words, structures, figures, diagrams, and formulas that fully set forth the claimed invention. Early-filed applications may fail the enablement or written description requirement, or both, if they lack enabling or supporting data because it was not available at the time the application was filed. Such applications may not mature into patents. We may not be able to protect our non-patented proprietary data, technologies or discoveries, and that may materially harm our business. Aside from our patented information, we also rely on our proprietary know-how and trade secrets that we develop and that are not protectable or protected by patents. The protective measures that we employ may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and know-how. Our business collaborators, licensees, employees, advisers and consultants may disclose our proprietary know-how or trade secrets in violation of their obligations to us. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in our proprietary know-how or trade secrets against such unauthorized disclosure and any consequent unauthorized publication. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, competitors may be able to develop technologies and resulting discoveries and inventions that are the same or similar to our own discoveries and inventions. That could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. The existence of third party intellectual property rights may prevent us from developing our discoveries or require us to expend financial and other resources to be able to continue to do so. In selecting a therapeutic product candidate for development, we take into account, among other considerations, the existence of third party intellectual property rights that may hinder our right to develop and commercialize that product candidate. The human genomic pool is finite. To our knowledge, third parties, including our competitors, have been filing wide patent applications covering an increasing portion of the human genomic pool and the proteins and peptides expressed therefrom. As a result of the existence of such third party intellectual property rights, we have been and may be further required to: · forgo the research, development and commercialization of certain therapeutic product candidates that we discover, notwithstanding their promising scientific and commercial merits; or 19 · invest substantial management and financial resources to either challenge or in-license such third party intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in doing so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not always have available to us, in a timely manner, information of the existence of third party intellectual property rights related to our own discoveries. The content of U.S. and other patent applications remains unavailable to the public for a period of approximately 18 months from the filing date. In some instances, the content of U.S. patent applications remains unavailable to the public until the patents are issued. As a result, we can never be certain that development projects that we commence will be free of third party intellectual property rights. If we become aware of the existence of third party intellectual property rights only after we have commenced a particular development project, we may have to forgo such project after having invested substantial resources in it. We may infringe third party rights and may become involved in litigation, which may materially harm our business. If a third party accuses us of infringing its intellectual property rights or if a third party commences litigation against us for the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, we may incur significant costs in defending such action, whether or not we ultimately prevail. Typically, patent litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is expensive and prolonged. Costs that we incur in defending third party infringement actions would also result in the diversion of management’s and technical personnel’s time. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could prevent us or our collaborators and licensees from further developing our discoveries or commercializing our products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages or obtain one or more licenses from the prevailing third party, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms. If we are not able to obtain such a license at a reasonable cost, if at all, we could encounter delays in product introductions and loss of substantial resources while we attempt to develop alternative products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could prevent us or our partners from commercializing available products and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Patent reform and other legislative changes in the U.S. and other countries may affect our ability to obtain and enforce our patents. In 2011, the United States passed comprehensive patent reform laws in the “America Invents Act,” or the “Act.” These changes may affect our ability to obtain and enforce patents in a number of ways. First, the Act provides for a period of ex parte post-grant review with expanded grounds for challenging validity of a patent for 9 months after grant of a patent. If the validity of one of our U.S. patents is successfully challenged, some or all of the claims may be invalidated, such that we could not enforce the patent and hence could not protect one or more of our therapeutic product candidates. Other countries may also pass legislative changes to their patent laws which could materially affect – and even invalidate – one or more of our already filed patent applications, or even granted patents. In a recent decision of the Israeli Supreme Court, the court has discussed whether an employee may waive his or her right to royalties or other compensation in respect of, or in connection with, service inventions created by such employee in the course of his or her employment, irrespective of such employee’s employment agreement and/or undertaking for assignment of inventions. This question is currently pending before the Israeli Courts and ruling in this matter may expose us to royalty or other compensation payments to our employees (including former employees) the amount of which cannot be estimated at this point. Increased progress in our scientific and technological environment may reduce our chances of obtaining a patent. In order to obtain a patent to protect one of our therapeutic product candidates, we must show that the underlying invention (that is, the candidate itself or its use) is inventive. As an increasing amount of scientific knowledge is becoming available regarding genes, proteins and biological mechanisms, the bar is increasingly raised to show sufficient inventiveness, as inventiveness is judged against all publicly available information available prior to filing of the patent application (the exact date may vary by country or due to other circumstances). We were initially pioneers in a largely unexplored field, but now there are many others working in our area. We may not be able to obtain patents for our product candidates due to the increased information published in this area. Collective patent applications, in which a large number of candidates are included in one patent application, are also challenged due to the raised bar for information that must be included in a patent application, as well as due to the availability of other publications. Our own published patent applications and other publications also serve as prior art against our new inventions and patent applications, and may also prevent us from obtaining new patents. 20 Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. In addition to patents, we rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risks Related to Operations in Israel Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents may be required to pay additional U.S. income taxes if we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return of U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of our shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will generally be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value (determined on a quarterly basis) of our total assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our analysis of our income, assets, activities and market capitalization, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012. However, there can be no assurances that the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge our analysis or our conclusion regarding our PFIC status. There is also a risk that we were a PFIC for one or more prior taxable years. If we were a PFIC during any prior years, U.S. holders who acquired or held our ordinary shares during such years generally will be subject to the PFIC rules. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, which are relevant to this determination. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. Conditions in the Middle East and in Israel may harm our operations. Our headquarter offices and part of our research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest, military conflicts and terrorist actions. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel, have in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region, as we have recently seen in Egypt, Syria and other neighboring Arab countries, may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region. These situations may potentially escalate in the future and turn violent which could affect Israel and us. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. We cannot give you any assurance that this will not continue to be the case. Additionally, if there were to be emergency conditions, some of our key employees may be called to active army duty for extended periods of time and that could adversely affect our operations. 21 Our insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that such government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the dollar against the New Israeli Shekel. We hold most of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses and administrative expenses, in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that if the U.S. dollar devaluates against the NIS, our NIS denominated expenses will be greater than anticipated when reported in U.S. dollars. In 2010 the dollar devaluated against the NIS by 6.0%, in 2011 the dollar appreciated against the NIS by 7.7%, in 2012, again the dollar devaluated against the NIS by 2.3%, and as a result our NIS denominated expenses were affected by these fluctuations. Inflation in Israel compounds the adverse impact of any devaluation by further increasing the amount of our Israeli expenses. Israeli inflation may also (in the future) outweigh the positive effect of any appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the NIS, if, and to the extent that, it outpaces such appreciation or precedes such appreciation. The Israeli rate of inflation (2.7%, 2.2% and 1.6% in 2010, 2011 and 2012, respectively) has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition during 2010, 2011 or 2012. We may not continue to be entitled to certain tax benefits. We may be entitled to benefit in the future from certain government programs and tax legislation, particularly as a result of the ‘Approved Enterprise’ status granted to our operation by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor and the ‘Benefiting Enterprise’ status that resulted in our currently being eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended (the "Encouragement Law"). The availability of these tax benefits, however, is subject to certain requirements, as set forth in the Encouragement Law including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, and financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions , as well as pursuant to Israeli intellectual property laws. The tax benefits that we anticipate receiving under our current “Approved Enterprise” and “Benefiting Enterprises” programs may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. To date we have not received any such tax benefits because we have not yet generated any taxable income. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, or our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. It may be difficult to obtain, within the United States, service of process upon us, since we are incorporated in Israel, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, almost all of whom reside outside the United States. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers, except for one, are located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers in United States or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or affect a potential acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires that acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds be conducted through tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. Israeli tax considerations may also make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax or who are not exempt under the provisions of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance from Israeli capital gains tax on the sale of our shares. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in Industry Law, 1984 as amended (“R&D Law”), to which we are subject due to our receipt of grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (“OCS”), a recipient of OCS grants such as us must report to the applicable authority of the OCS any change in the holding of the means of control of our company which transforms any non-Israeli citizen or resident into a direct interested party in our company. 22 These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders, and it may therefore limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. We received grants from the OCS that may restrict the transfer of know-how that we develop. We have received research and development grants from the OCS. The transfer of know-how developed under the programs submitted to the OCS and as to which we received the grants, or rights to manufacture based on and/or incorporating such know-how to third parties, might require the consent of the OCS, and may require certain payments to the OCS. Although such restrictions do not apply to the export from Israel of the company’s products developed with such know-how, they may prevent us from engaging in transactions with our affiliates or customers outside Israel, involving product or other asset transfers, which might otherwise be beneficial to us. Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC and NASDAQ requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of rules promulgated by the SEC. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: · the rules under the Exchange Act requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; · the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, under the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of certain NASDAQ listing requirements. For example, under NASDAQ’s rules a company traded on the NASDAQ market is required to select director nominees either by independent directors constituting a majority of the board of directors or by a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. However, we have opted to follow our home country practice with respect to certain NASDAQ requirements. Because of these SEC and NASDAQ exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. Risks Related to our Ordinary Shares Sales of ordinary shares under our existing sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. or under our recently filed shelf registration statement will dilute existing shareholders. On January 11, 2011 we filed a shelf registration with the SEC covering the offering and sale of up to $40 million of our securities, which became effective on January 21, 2011. On September 1, 2011 we filed a prospectus supplement in relation to a sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. In accordance with the terms of this agreement, we may offer and sell an aggregate of up to 6,000,000 of our ordinary shares, from time to time through Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as our sales agent, provided that gross proceeds from the offering do not exceed $40 million. We may also sell our ordinary shares to Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of sale. From January 10, 2012 through March 15, 2013, we had sold an aggregate of 2,411,050of our ordinary shares and received gross proceeds of approximately $13.4 million under this agreement. While there is no assurance that we will be able to sell additional shares covered under this agreement, any such additional sales will result in dilution to existing shareholders. 23 In addition, on January 7, 2013, we filed a shelf registration statement on Form F-3 with the SEC under which we may offer and sell from time to time in one or more offerings, our ordinary shares, debt securities, rights, warrants and units having an aggregate offering price of up to $100 million. This registration statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 16, 2013. While there is no assurance that we will sell any shares under this shelf registration statement, any such sales will result in dilution to existing shareholders. Our share price and trading volume have been volatile and may be volatile in the future and that could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit and could limit our ability to successfully raise funds. During the calendar years 2011 and 2012, our stock price on NASDAQ has traded from a low of $2.96 to a high of $6.47 and trading volume is volatile from time to time. The volatile price of our stock and periodic volatile trading volume may make it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our ordinary shares including: · negative global macroeconomic developments; · our success (or lack thereof) in entering into collaboration agreements and achieving certain developmental milestones thereunder; · our need to raise additional capital and our success or failure in doing so; · achievement or denial of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our existing or new collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; · delay or failure by us or our partners in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of such trials; · period to period fluctuations in our results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · our inability to disclose the commercial terms of, or progress under, our collaborations; · our ability (or lack thereof) to show and accurately predict revenues; and · sales of our ordinary shares. We are not able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel may also be affected by the changing security situation in the Middle East and particularly in Israel. As a result, these companies may experience volatility in their stock prices and/or difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Thus, market industry-wide fluctuations and political, economic and military conditions in the Middle East may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. As a result of the volatility of our stock price, we could be subject to securities litigation, which could result in substantial costs and divert management’s attention and company resources from our business. 24 