D. RISK FACTORS Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which could include the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations, and our share price may decline. We can give no assurance that we will successfully address any of these risks. The principal risks are described below. Risk Factors Related to our Financial Results and Financing Needs We cannot provide assurance that our business model will succeed in generating substantial revenues. Our business model is primarily based on receiving revenues in the form of fees and research revenues, milestones and royalties and other revenue sharing payments from the commercialization of drug and diagnostic products by third parties based on product candidates (i) discovered by us and then licensed to such third parties, and/or (ii) discovered pursuant to various forms of collaborations with such third parties whereby our discovery platforms or other discovery capabilities target areas of their interest. To date, third party arrangements with respect to product candidates discovered by us have only been entered into at the early, proof of concept stage. Furthermore, these initial collaborations were based on product candidate discoveries, both therapeutics and diagnostics, that were made during the process of establishing our predictive discovery capabilities prior to having a sufficient integrated and broadly applicable infrastructure of such capabilities to allow a “therapeutic needs” driven discovery process. Consistent with this new discovery process, during 2010, a program was initiated to take certain oncology and immunology therapeutic product candidates forward in the preclinical stage prior to licensing or other collaborations for such product candidates (our “Pipeline Program”). To date, revenues related to our initial collaborations have been minimal, and we have no revenues from our new Pipeline Program and no revenue at all during 2011. We cannot be certain this business model will generate a stable or significant revenue stream. The inability to derive adequate revenues from our business model would significantly impede improvement in our operating results and liquidity or even result in the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations. 6 We have a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2011, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $180 million and had incurred net losses of approximately $4 million in 2009, approximately $7 million in 2010 and approximately $12 million in 2011. The accumulated deficit results in large part from our primary focus from 1997 to 2004 on research and infrastructure building activities and then, beginning in 2005 to 2010, on the development, validation and integration of discovery platforms incorporating predictive modeling of various biological phenomena, with each such platform designed to identify novel biologic molecules of a specific type or for a specific purpose. To date, we have received only minimal current revenues from our commercialization efforts with respect to molecules discovered during this infrastructure building period, and we may continue to incur net losses in the future due to the costs and expenses associated with our research and discovery activities, including our more recently initiated “therapeutic needs” focused product candidate discovery, our increasing Pipeline Program activities, and the development, validation and integration of additional discovery platforms. Commercial arrangements with respect to Pipeline Program molecules are projected at the preclinical stage of such product candidates, and therefore, to date no such arrangements have been established. We cannot be certain that we will ever enter into such arrangements, or that such arrangements will provide sufficient revenues to achieve profitability, and even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We operate in a rapidly developing field and will be required to allocate substantial additional funds in the future to our research activities. Our drug and diagnostic product candidate discovery capabilities rely on a proprietary infrastructure of predictive models, algorithms and other computational tools incorporating proprietary knowledge of key biological phenomena. Life science today is a rapidly changing field with substantial research being undertaken on a worldwide basis both by academia and industry. In order to maintain our competitive position in predictive discovery, we must continue to allocate a significant portion of our R&D expenditures to broadening and deepening our scientific infrastructure. We intend to continue to do so, although such allocation was less during 2011 than in previous years due to emphasis during 2011 on furthering our Pipeline Program, as further described herein. If for any reason in the future we are unable to continue to allocate sufficient funding to discovery infrastructure building, our discovery ability relative to others would likely be lessened, with a negative impact on our operating results or even with a need to limit or discontinue our business operations. Our Pipeline Program will require additional resources that may not be available, as a result of which we may attempt to license out certain molecules at a very early stage, or not be able to license out such molecules at all. In 2010 we initiated our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we intend to both (i) substantially increase the number of predicted and selected therapeutic candidates being evaluated by us, and (ii) take selected therapeutic candidates beyond their validation stage (of either disease animal model for protein therapeutics or drug target expression profile for monoclonal antibody (“mAb”) targets) into preclinical activities for protein therapeutics or to disease animal model for a therapeutic mAb to the targets. Assuming a similar level of success in the initial validation stages as we experienced in the past, this may result in multiple product candidates reaching more costly stages of development in parallel. If we are not able to secure the funding required for these more advanced activities, we may be required to abandon, postpone, or attempt to license out certain molecules at an earlier than anticipated stage, which may result in a substantial reduction in the potential returns from the Pipeline Program, or even result in the inability to have some or all of such successful “proof of concept” therapeutic candidates further developed and commercialized. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. If we do and are unable to raise such needed additional funds, we may need to curtail or cease operations, and if we do raise additional funds, to the extent such funding is based on the sale of equity, our existing shareholders are likely to experience dilution of their shareholdings. As of December 31, 2011, we had total cash and cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits of approximately $22.4 million, compared with approximately $21.8 million as of December 31, 2010; the amount for December 31, 2011 does not include an amount of $6 million, that we expect to receive from Baize pursuant to the Baize mAb Funding Agreement (each as defined below), and in both cases, the amount does not include the market value of the Evogene Ltd. ordinary shares that we hold. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty when, or even if, we will achieve profitability and therefore may need additional funds to continue financing our discovery, validation, development and commercialization activities. 7 On January 11, 2011 we filed a shelf registration with the SEC covering the offering and sale of up to $40 million of our securities, which became effective on January 21, 2011. On September 1, 2011 we filed a prospectus supplement in relation to a sales agreement with Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. (the “Cantor Sales Agreement”). In accordance with the terms of the Cantor Sales Agreement, we may offer and sell an aggregate of up to 6,000,000 of our ordinary shares, from time to time through Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as our sales agent, provided that gross proceeds from the offering do not exceed $40 million. Under the terms of the Cantor Sales Agreement, we may also sell our ordinary shares to Cantor Fitzgerald & Co., as principal for its own account, at a price agreed upon at the time of sale. If we sell shares to Cantor Fitzgerald & Co. as principal, we will enter into a separate agreement setting forth the terms of such transaction, and we will describe the agreement in a separate prospectus supplement or pricing supplement. As of March 12, 2012 we sold through the Cantor Sales Agreement an aggregate of 551,000 of our ordinary shares, and received gross proceeds of approximately $3.3 million, before deducting issuance expenses. There is no assurance that we will be able to sell additional shares covered under the Cantor Sales Agreement or raise other capital under this shelf registration. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible securities, we expect that our shareholders will experience dilution of their shareholdings. If we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, pursuant to these or other arrangements, we may have to curtail or cease our discovery and validation activities, or restrict or even cease operations. We cannot provide any assurance that additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain additional funding will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our business progress and investor sentiment Under the Funding Agreements with Baize Investments (Israel) Ltd. (“Baize”) entered in December 2010 and December 2011, we may have to share any future economic success of certain product candidates, and may dilute the holdings of our current shareholders. On December 29, 2010, we entered into a funding agreement with Baize under which Baize provided us with $5 million in support of our Pipeline Program (the “Pipeline Funding Agreement”). In exchange, Baize received (i) the right to receive ten percent (which amount may be reduced under certain circumstances) (the “Pipeline Program Participation Rights”) of certain cash consideration received by us pursuant to any licenses for the development and commercialization of products developed from five designated product candidates currently in our Pipeline Program, and (ii) warrants for 500,000 of our ordinary shares, exercisable at $6 per share through June 30, 2013. In addition, at any time through June 30, 2013, Baize may waive in its entirety its right to receive the Pipeline Program Participation Rights in exchange for 833,333 of our ordinary shares. On December 20, 2011, we entered into a second funding agreement with Baize, under which Baize agreed to provide us with $8 million (the “mAb Investment Amount”) in partial support of the monoclonal antibody portion of our Pipeline Program (the “mAb Funding Agreement”, and with the Pipeline Funding Agreement, the “Funding Agreements”). In exchange, Baize received the right to receive a financial interest (the “mAb Participation Interest”) in certain product candidates that achieve specific milestones or have been licensed out, prior to December 31, 2014. The mAb Investment Amount is to be paid in three installments: $2 million was paid on December 21, 2011, $3 million is to be paid on or before June 30, 2012 and $3 million is to be paid on or before September 30, 2012. In the event such payments are not made, we have the right to cancel in its entirety the mAb Participation Interest by issuing to Baize our ordinary shares, at a value of $6 per share, equivalent to the funds actually invested, to such point. Notwithstanding anything in the second funding agreement, Baize has the right, during the first quarter of 2014, to waive its rights to the mAb Participation Interest in exchange for 1,455,000 of our ordinary shares. If Baize does not complete its payment obligations by making the two additional installments of the mAb Investment Amount as described above, we will either (a) have to utilize other cash resources to make up the shortfall, thus negatively impacting the financial strength of the Company and/or increasing the probability that the Company will need to raise additional capital or (b) slow down or discontinue certain planned activities for the Pipeline Program or otherwise. If any one or all five pipeline product candidates designated under the Pipeline Funding Agreement, or any or all of the relevant mAb product candidates under the mAb Funding Agreement are successfully licensed, developed or commercialized, and Baize has not elected to waive its Pipeline Program Participation Rights under the related respective agreement as set forth above, we will need to provide Baize with a percentage of certain related cash consideration received by us, thus reducing the amount of revenues from such transactions remaining for the benefit of our shareholders. On the other hand, in the event that, prior to June 30, 2013, Baize chooses to exchange its Participation Rights for 833,333 ordinary shares according to the Pipeline Funding Agreement and/or in the event that during the first quarter of 2014, Baize chooses to waive its rights to the mAb Participation Interest in exchange for 1,455,000 of our ordinary shares in accordance with the mAb Funding Agreement, our then existing shareholders will be diluted by any such shares issued to Baize. 8 If we are unable to continue to receive research and development grants, our financial results may be negatively impacted and we may need to restrict certain research activities. We have received research and development grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the “OCS”), and from the European Community, under the European Union’s 6th Framework Program. In 2011, the grants we received totaled approximately $424,000 compared with approximately $1 million in 2010 and approximately $944,000 in 2009. Our entitlement to receive these grants is dependent on, among other things, our compliance with the various grants’ respective terms and conditions. In addition, the Office of the Chief Scientist may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. Our contingent liability to repay these grants out of future revenues totaled approximately $11.2 million at December 31, 2011. If we do not comply with the terms and conditions of the grants or if we do not succeed in obtaining these or similar grants in the future, we may have to restrict certain research activities. Risk Factors Related to our Discovery and Development Activities and to the Commercialization of our Discoveries We are focusing our discovery activities on therapeutic protein and monoclonal antibody drug targets for use in oncology and immunology, including both auto-immune and inflammatory disease. If we fail to create product candidates of industry interest in these fields, or to focus on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. In spite of the broad applicability of our discovery infrastructure, we have chosen to focus our discovery activities on therapeutic protein and monoclonal antibody drug targets for use in oncology and immunology, including both auto-immune and inflammatory conditions. By making this decision we have elected not to continue any internal development of diagnostic products and peptide based drugs, and to pursue such opportunities only in collaboration with third parties. In order to successfully focus our discovery efforts on unmet market needs in these fields, we will need to integrate our proprietary discovery platforms, tools and systems towards this end, and will likely need to create in many cases additional infrastructure components that relate to these specific fields. There are many risks associated with this decision of focusing in these areas that include, among others: · the risk of not using all of our capabilities; · choosing fields with a very high degree of competition; · a lack of certain relevant knowledge in the fields of immunology or oncology, in selecting the right unmet needs or candidates, or in integrating our platforms and tools in order to discover novel product candidates in these fields; · we may not be able to make the necessary enhancements of our capabilities and related technologies in order to compete successfully within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries; and · any or all of our focus decisions may prove to be incorrect and if so, cause us to be unsuccessful in our discovery and development activities, and limit our chances of success have we chosen otherwise. In each case, our failure could be due to lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, with the possible result that no selected candidates result in licensed or marketable products in these fields. Additionally, if any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Our predictive discovery capabilities remain unproven with respect to yielding marketable products. If we fail to continue to develop and enhance our discovery capabilities, or we fail to make novel discoveries, or focus on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our proprietary predictive discovery capabilities are designed to predict and select potential product candidates in many different therapeutic and diagnostic areas of interest. To date, the validation of our initial predicted and selected product candidates has been limited to in-vitro and in-vivo (including animal disease models) testing and no human testing has yet been undertaken. Furthermore, the discovery capabilities utilized to predict and select these product candidates, including the individual discovery platforms, rely on the modeling, by our scientists, of complex biological processes, both physiological and pathological. This modeling is partial and might not be sufficient to result in true predictions to the biological processes as they occur naturally. Even if we make true or partially true predictions, we might be able only to repeat discoveries already made by others and not be able to make novel discoveries. This may result either from relying on data already used by others or by developing capabilities already developed, wholly or partially by others, or from inherent incapacity of such capabilities. In addition, since our research and discovery resources are limited we might be able to progress with only a fraction of our discoveries. During the initial validation activities of our Pipeline Program, we assess on an on-going basis which discoveries to validate based on various scientific and business criteria. If we or our partners fail to select the right candidates to validate and/or progress with, due to either lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in a marketable product. Additionally, we may not be able to make the necessary new developments and enhancements to our discovery capabilities in order to compete successfully within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 9 If either the predictive discovery approach in general, or our therapeutic needs (market) driven approach, does not prove to be successful, our business will be significantly harmed. Our method of discovering novel product candidates involves first selecting – either on our own or with a partner company - an unmet therapeutic need where we believe our predictive capabilities would be relevant, or could be modified to be relevant. In this therapeutic needs (market) driven approach, our goal is to harness all of our relevant capabilities in order to address the specific unmet need, rather than obtaining product candidates resulting from the development, validation or initial runs of a single discovery platform as was the case previously. After selection of the unmet need we wish to address, we then focus all of our discovery platforms, algorithms and other computational biology capabilities to predict in silico (i.e. by computer) sequences for a typically large number of possible product candidates. Next we utilize proprietary algorithms and tools and other methodologies to select, from this large number of possibilities, those novel molecules that we believe have the highest probability of success. Selected molecules are then produced and undergo in-vitro and/or in-vivo validation testing. Each of these platforms incorporates the predictive modeling of various biological phenomena, with each such platform designed to identify novel biologic molecules of a specific type, or for a specific purpose. Although our therapeutic needs (market) driven approach resulted in the discovery of a number of novel molecules in an area of high industry interest, we have limited experience with this approach for our discovery efforts. Therefore, we cannot predict whether this therapeutic needs (market) driven approach will continue to yield product candidates or that any of our existing discoveries or future discoveries will be suitable for development into therapeutic products. If either the predictive discovery approach in general does not prove to be successful, or this therapeutic needs (market) driven approach does not lead to successful product candidates, our business will be significantly harmed. Our focus on the Pipeline Program has resulted in a substantial increase in activities, certain of which we will undertake for the first time and may result in product candidate failures, or fewer molecules being available for early stage licensing. Prior to 2010, Compugen’s in-vitro and in-vivo validation studies concluded with disease animal model or drug target expression profile analysis. At the completion of such activities, or earlier, Compugen initiated its efforts to enter into collaborations for such molecules. This is at an earlier stage than is typical for licensing in the pharmaceutical industry. Under the Pipeline Program, the Company has undertaken a substantial increase in the number of molecules being validated, with more than 30 such molecules currently in the pipeline. In addition, certain molecules are now being advanced further towards pre-clinical activities. During 2010, we decided that for the next few years we would emphasize our Pipeline Program and allocate a substantial portion of our R&D activities to this activity. This decision to advance further with certain molecules will require us to undertake certain activities for the first time and may result in product candidate failures during such additional activities, either due to our lack of expertise or due to unsupportive findings, or fewer molecules being available for early stage licensing, due to our available resources being insufficient to advance all programs. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We rely on access to public and commercial databases to feed our discovery capabilities, including our individual discovery platforms. If we are denied access to these databases or if the quality of available information is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, as has occurred in the past, our operations and business may be harmed. In the development and validation of our discovery platforms and other tools, as well as in connection with the resulting therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use public and commercially available databases. The quality of our platforms, tools and discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of the data in these databases. If we are denied access to these databases, or if we are granted access to such databases on terms which are not commercially reasonable, or if the quality of data available from those databases is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, each of which has occurred in the past, our business and our results of operations may be materially harmed. 10 We rely on access to high-quality biological samples supported by detailed clinical records to conduct parts of our discovery and validation activities. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason, or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, which has occurred in the past, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and validation of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use commercially available biological samples. The quality of our discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of available biological samples. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, which has occurred in the past, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. We rely on the services of various third party service providers, contract research organizations (CRO's), contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) and academia. If we will fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and validation of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on the services of various third party service providers, CRO's and academia for production of certain biological reagents and performance of certain in-vitro or animal model validation of our discoveries. In advancing our candidates through certain required preclinical studies towards the generation of an IND-enabling package, we rely on the services of various third party service providers, such as CRO's, CMOs and various regulatory consultants. If we will fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, or if the contractual demands of such third parties become unreasonable and we are not be able to reach satisfactory agreements with such third parties, we may not be able to obtain the required services, in which event our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. We have no experience in conducting, managing, or sponsoring preclinical work for purposes of generating an IND enabling submission package. During 2010, we began to focus our discovery efforts primarily in the fields of immunology and oncology, and initiated the Pipeline Program to both substantially increase the number of molecules in our validation pipeline and to increase the value of certain of our candidates by advancing selected molecules beyond proof of concept experimental validation towards the generation of an IND enabling package. We have no experience in conducting, managing, or sponsoring the work and efforts required beyond the proof of concept experimental validation stage towards the generation of an IND enabling package, and by doing so we will need to rely on our consultants, and other third party service providers. If we fail to identify the right consultants or service providers, or fail to take the necessary steps towards generating an IND enabling submission package our business may be harmed. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified scientists, staff consultants and advisors, our ability to implement our research and development capabilities and business plan may be adversely affected. We are highly dependent upon certain of our scientific and business consultants and advisors. The loss of the service of these persons may significantly delay or prevent our achievement of product development and other business objectives. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals, and our failure to do so could have an adverse effect on our ability to implement our research and development capabilities and business plan. We have limited experience in the development of therapeutic product candidates. Our experience in the development of therapeutic product candidates is limited. In order to successfully develop and commercialize therapeutic product candidates, we must either access such expertise via collaborations or service providers or improve our internal expertise, capabilities and facilities. We may not be able to maintain and/or engage any or all of the experts that we need in order to do so. If we fail to have available at the appropriate times all of the required experience and expertise in the development and commercialization of therapeutic product candidates, we may be unsuccessful in our discovery and development activities, and as a result our business may be materially harmed. 11 A number of the mAb targets we discovered are now approaching the point where further advancement will require the development of mAbs against them. Therefore, we plan to establish our own therapeutic mAbs development capabilities. If we fail to do so our business may be harmed. In late 2011, we announced that we plan to establish our own therapeutic mAb development capabilities, in order to further develop and validate the mAb targets candidates that we discovered. The establishment of such in-house capabilities contains a number of risks, including, without limitation, our lack of experience in the field of therapeutic mAbs development, the need for additional resources and funding in order to maintain such capabilities and the need to identify qualified and suitable employees and consultants in order to establish and advance these capabilities. If we fail to establish such therapeutic mAb development capabilities, or even if we are successful is establishing these capabilities but are not successful in choosing the right product candidates to be developed, our business is likely to be harmed. Our business model consists of three commercialization pathways, each of which is at an early stage of implementation and none of which has to date provided significant revenues. The success of our business model relies on providing, through licensing agreements and other forms of collaboration, drug product candidates to third parties, principally pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. In all cases, our objective is that these collaborations will be “product oriented”, with us having the right to receive advance payments or research revenues, milestone payments and revenue-sharing amounts from all products developed and commercialized by third parties based on our product candidates. We currently employ three different commercialization approaches. The first commercial pathway involves seeking third parties interested in the development and commercialization of certain product candidates in our Pipeline Program. The second pathway relates to the discovery of future product candidates at the request of third parties in areas of interest to them. The third pathway involves seeking third parties interested in the development and commercialization of product candidates identified by us that are not part of our Pipeline Program. During 2011, we entered into three of such agreements with respect to our platform validation stage discoveries; however, there can be no assurance that these three agreements will be successful or that we will be able to enter into additional arrangements with respect to other platform validation stage discoveries. In addition, each of these commercialization pathways is at an early stage of implementation and none of which has to date provided significant revenues. If we are unable to achieve success with these three pathways or to enter into agreements with sufficient future returns, our business will be materially harmed. We depend significantly on third parties to carry out the development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, and if we are unable to maintain our existing agreements or to enter into additional agreements with such third parties in the future, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products based on our product candidates depends on the formation of relationships with third parties that have the necessary capabilities to carry out these tasks. We depend on others to carry out and/or finance development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products based on our product candidates, principally, pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies and other healthcare related organizations. To date, we have entered into a small number of agreements covering discovery to be performed by us, and development and commercialization rights granted to others with respect to certain of our validation stage product candidates. None of the product candidates covered by such agreements have, advanced beyond the validation stage of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will result in the successful development or commercialization of any products based on our discoveries. Further, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in identifying additional suitable parties or entering into any other additional agreements for the development and/or commercialization of our product candidates. If we are unable to identify such additional suitable parties or enter into new agreements, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our dependence on collaboration agreements, such as licensing-out or co-development, with third parties presents a number of risks, and if one or more of these risks materialize, our business may be materially harmed. The risks that we face in connection with our existing collaborations, licenses and other business alliances as well as those that we may enter into in the future include, among others, the following: · we may be unable to comply or fully comply with our obligations under collaboration agreements into which we enter, and as a result, we may not generate royalties or milestone payments from such agreements, and our ability to enter into additional agreements may be harmed; · our collaborators have significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of the planned activities and the manner in which it will be done; · our collaborators may fail to design and implement appropriate preclinical and/or clinical trials; · our collaborators may fail to manufacture our product candidates needed for either clinical trials or for commercial purposes on a sufficiently large scale and/or in a cost effective manner; · our collaborators may fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries due to various regulatory restrictions; 12 · our collaborators may fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries prior to the successful marketing of competing products by others or prior to expiry of the patents protecting such products; · we may not be able to control our collaborators’ willingness to pursue development of our product candidates, or the amount of resources that our collaborators will devote to the collaboration; · changes in a collaborator's business strategy may negatively affect its willingness or ability to complete its obligations under its arrangement or to continue with its collaboration with us; · ownership of the intellectual property generated under our collaborations may be disputed; · our ownership of rights in any intellectual property or products that may result from our collaborations may depend on additional investment of money that we may not be able or willing to make; · prospective collaborators may pursue alternative products or technologies, by internally developing them or by preferring those of our competitors; · disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in, or termination of, the collaboration; and · our collaborators may fail to develop or commercialize successfully any products based on product candidates to which they have obtained rights from us. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. The agreement cycle for potential collaborations is complex and lengthy and as a result, we may expend substantial funds and management resources with no assurance of success. We are required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each licensee and collaborator and which suit each collaborator’s specific discovery, development and business strategies. The accommodation of these requirements mandates a thorough consideration of both the scientific and business aspects of each transaction. The diversity and wide applicability of our discovery capabilities in therapeutics and diagnostics, together with the fact that we are located in Israel, adds a high level of complexity to our business development efforts. As a result, the process of preparing and negotiating our licensing and other agreements may take 12 months or longer, and even then may end in failure to reach a final agreement. These business development and related commercial activities require the input and substantial time and effort of our key scientific and management personnel. As a result, we believe that we will need to continue to expend substantial funds and substantial management time and effort into these business development activities with no assurance of successfully entering into agreements with potential collaborators and this could harm our business. There are risks that are inherent in the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products, and if these risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We face a number of risks of failure that are inherent in the process of developing and commercializing therapeutic and diagnostic products. These risks include, among others, the possibility that: · our therapeutic product candidates will be found to be pharmacologically ineffective; · our therapeutic product candidates will be found to be toxic or to have other detrimental side effects; · our diagnostic product candidates will prove to be ineffective in distinguishing between healthy and disease samples or in providing information relating to a patient’s response to a drug; · Our mAb targets will prove to be inappropriate targets for mAb therapeutics; · we or our collaborators will fail to receive applicable regulatory approvals; · we or our collaborators will fail to manufacture our product candidates in the quantity or quality needed for preclinical or clinical trials on a large scale in a cost effective manner; · the commercialization of our product candidates may infringe third party intellectual property rights; · the development, marketing or sale of our product candidates will fail because of our inability or failure to protect or maintain our own intellectual property rights; and/or 13 · once a product is launched in the market, there will be little or no demand for it as a result of its exclusion from health funds' reimbursement schemes or as a result of there being alternative products available for sale. If one or more of these risks or any similar risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We have no experience in conducting or managing clinical trials for potential therapeutic products. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for any product, and we intend to rely on our collaborators or third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform these functions. Our reliance on third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet required performance standards or expected deadlines, we might be required to replace them or the data that they provide could be rejected, all of which may result in a delay of the affected trial. We or our collaborators may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for any product that we or a collaborator may develop. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations, including those relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process must be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain United States Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products we or our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement among other things. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. If we or our collaborators, or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future, fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell diagnostics and therapeutics and may harm our reputation. If we or our collaborators or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell diagnostic or therapeutic products and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such products by the market. These enforcement actions may include: · warning letters; · recalls, public notification or medical product safety alerts; · restrictions on, or prohibitions against, marketing such tests or products; · restrictions on importation of such tests or products; · suspension of review or refusal to approve new or pending applications; · withdrawal of product approvals; · product seizures; · injunctions; · civil and criminal penalties and fines; and · debarment or other exclusions from government programs. 14 If we do not comply with laws regulating the use of human tissues or the conduct of experiments involving animals, our business could be adversely affected. We use human tissue samples and conduct experiments involving animals for the purpose of development and validation of our technologies. Our access to and use of human tissue samples and the conduct of experiments involving animals are subject to government regulation in the United States, Israel and elsewhere and may become subject to further regulation. For example, the Israeli Ministry of Health requires compliance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration, the Public Health Regulations (Clinical Trials in Human Subjects) 1980, the provisions of the Guidelines for Clinical Trials in Human Subjects and the provisions of the current Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice. Our failure to comply with these or similar regulations could impact our business and results of operations. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Numerous entities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere compete with our efforts to discover, validate and partner with licensees and/or collaborators to commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic products or product candidates. Our competitors include pharmaceutical, biotechnology companies, academic and research institutions and governmental and other publicly funded agencies. We face, and expect to continue to face, competition from these entities to the extent that they develop products that have a function similar or identical to the function of our therapeutic product candidates in the fields of oncology and immunology. We also face, and expect to continue to face, competition from entities that seek to develop technologies that enable the discovery of novel therapeutic proteins and antibodies in the fields of oncology and immunology. Many of our competitors have: · much greater financial, technical and human resources than we have at every stage of the discovery, development, manufacture and commercialization process; · more extensive experience in preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals, and in manufacturing and marketing diagnostics and therapeutics; · more extensive experience in oncology and immunology and in the fields of mAb therapy and proteins therapeutics; · products that have been approved or are in late stages of development; and · collaborative arrangements in our target markets with leading companies and research institutions. Since we are a small company with limited human and financial resources, we are not able to work with a large number of collaborators in parallel and/or advance a large number of molecules in parallel. Our competitors may develop or commercialize products with significant advantages over any therapeutic products we, our collaborators or third-party licensees may develop. They may also obtain patents and other intellectual property rights before us and thereby prevent us from pursuing the development and commercialization of our discoveries. Our competitors may therefore be more successful in developing and/or commercializing their tests and products than we, our collaborators, or third party licensees are, which could adversely affect our competitive position and business. For information about the specific competitors with whom we compete, see “Competition” under “Item 4. Information on the Company.” If we are unable to compete successfully against existing or potential competitors, our financial results and business may be materially harmed. Changes in healthcare policy could increase our expenses, decrease our revenues and impact sales of and reimbursement for our Products. Our ability to commercialize our future product candidates successfully, will depend in part on the extent to which coverage and reimbursement for the products based on our product candidates will be available from government and health administration authorities, private health insurers and other third-party payors. Changes in healthcare policy, in particular the continuing efforts of the U.S. and foreign governments, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care services to contain or reduce health care costs may adversely affect our ability to set consideration for our services which we believe are fair, and our ability to generate revenues and achieve and maintain profitability. In March 2010, the President of the United States signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Affordability Reconciliation Act, or the Healthcare Reform Act. This law substantially changes the way health care is financed by both governmental and private insurers, and significantly impacts our industry. The Healthcare Reform Act contains a number of provisions that are expected to impact our business and operations, including those governing enrollment in federal healthcare programs, reimbursement changes and fraud and abuse, which will impact existing government healthcare programs and will result in the development of new programs. 15 In addition, other legislative changes have been proposed and adopted since the Healthcare Reform Act was enacted. Most recently, on August 2, 2011, the President of the United States signed into law the Budget Control Act of 2011, which, among other things, creates the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to recommend proposals in spending reductions to the United States Congress. The Joint Select Committee did not achieve a targeted deficit reduction of at least $1.2 trillion for the years 2013 through 2021, triggering the United States’ legislation’s automatic reduction to several government programs, including aggregate reductions to Medicare payments to providers, starting in 2013. In addition to the Healthcare Reform Act and the Budget Control Act of 2011, there will continue to be proposals by legislators at both the federal and state levels, regulators and third-party payors to keep these costs down while expanding individual healthcare benefits. While in general it is too early to predict specifically what effect these acts and their implementation or any future healthcare reform legislation or policies will have on our business, current and future healthcare reform legislation and policies could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with us, we may lose the interest of the consolidating parties in our discovery capabilities or individual discoveries as a result of a modified strategy and new priorities of such consolidated entity. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. Risk Factors Related to our Operations We may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or sufficiently qualified employees, in which case our business may be harmed. Our business is highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. While members of our senior management and other key personnel have entered into employment or consulting agreements and non-competition and non-disclosure agreements, we cannot assure you that these key personnel and others will not leave us or compete with us, which could harm our business activities and operations. It is difficult to find suitable and highly qualified personnel in certain aspects of our industry. It can be difficult for us to find employees with appropriate experience for our business. We require a multidisciplinary approach and our researchers require experience in both exact and biological sciences. On average, our employees have been employed by Compugen eight years. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to retain our key personnel, or to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. We may be unable to safeguard the integrity, security and confidentiality of our data or third parties’ data, and if we are unable to do so, our business may be harmed. We rely heavily on the use and manipulation of large amounts of data and on the secure and continuous use of our internal computers, communication networks and software and hardware systems. We have implemented and maintain physical and software security measures to preserve and protect our computers, communication, and hardware and software systems as well as our data and third parties’ data. However, these methods may not protect us against fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins or similar events. In addition, these measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access, use or publication of such proprietary data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate or destroy proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. A party who has access to our proprietary data could misappropriate such data, make unauthorized use of or unintentionally destroy all or part of such proprietary data. In addition, a party, including an employee, who obtains unauthorized access to our proprietary data or breaches a confidentiality agreement with us could publish or transfer large portions or all of our proprietary data. Such publication of proprietary data could materially harm our intellectual property position, thereby seriously harming our competitive position. Such security breaches, if significant, could harm our operations and even cause our business to cease. 16 If we do not comply with laws regulating the protection of the environment and health and human safety, our business could be adversely affected. Our research and development activities involve the use of hazardous materials and chemicals, and we maintain quantities of various flammable and toxic chemicals in our facilities. We believe our procedures for storing, handling and disposing these materials in our facilities comply with the relevant guidelines of the State of Israel, and since the amounts of hazardous materials that we store and hold are small, we do not believe there is an environmental risk associated with this storing and handling of hazardous materials but rather a risk related to the safety of our employees. Although we believe that our safety procedures for handling and disposing of these materials comply with the standards mandated by applicable regulations, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. If an accident occurs, we could be held liable for resulting damages, which could be substantial. We are also subject to numerous environmental, health and workplace safety laws and regulations, including those governing laboratory procedures, exposure to blood-borne pathogens and the handling of biohazardous materials. We may incur substantial costs to comply with, and substantial fines or penalties if we violate any of these laws or regulations. Risk Factors Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our inventions and if we fail to do so, our business will likely be materially harmed. We have applied for patents covering our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates as well as aspects of some of our technologies, and the success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our ability to obtain and maintain such patents and any additional patents covering our future product candidates. As of January 1, 2012 we had a total of 29 issued patents, of which 26 are U.S. patents. We also have pending patent applications which as of January 1, 2012 include 31 patent applications that have been filed in the United States and four applications that have been filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty for which we have not yet designated the countries of filing. We plan to continue to apply for patent protection for our therapeutic and diagnostic inventions, including for related inventions such as antibodies and peptides, but we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be accepted, or that they will be accepted to the extent that we seek. Additionally, we file for patent protection in selected countries and not in all countries of the world. Therefore, we are exposed to competition in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Also, due to our early stage business model, we may be required to seek patent protection at a very early stage. This may cause issuance of a patent at an earlier stage creating a shorter commercialization period under patent protection, possibly enabling others to compete with us. The process of obtaining patents for inventions that cover our products is uncertain for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: · the patenting of our inventions involves complex legal issues, many of which have not yet been settled; · legislative and judicial changes, or changes in the examination guidelines of governmental patent offices may negatively affect our ability to obtain molecule-based patents; · in view of the finite number of human genes, we face intense competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies who have already sought patent protection relating to gene-based discoveries that we may intend to develop and commercialize; · publication of large amounts of genomic data by non-commercial and commercial entities may hinder our ability to obtain sufficiently broad patent claims for our inventions; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, such protection may not be sufficient to prevent third parties from using our patented inventions; early stage filing may lead to a shorter commercialization period under patent protection and increased competition; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, our patents could be partially or wholly invalidated, including by our competitors; and · there are significant costs that may need to be incurred in registering and filing patents. If we do not succeed in obtaining patent protection for our inventions to the fullest extent for which we seek protection, our business and financial results will likely be materially harmed. 17 We may not be able to protect our non-patented proprietary data, technologies or discoveries, and that may materially harm our business. Aside from our patented information, we also rely on our proprietary know-how and trade secrets that we develop and that are not protectable or protected by patents. The protective measures that we employ may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and know-how. Our business collaborators, licensees, employees, advisers and consultants may disclose our proprietary know-how or trade secrets in violation of their obligations to us. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in our proprietary know-how or trade secrets against such unauthorized disclosure and any consequent unauthorized publication. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, competitors may be able to develop technologies and resulting discoveries and inventions that are the same or similar to our own discoveries and inventions. That could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. The existence of third party intellectual property rights may prevent us from developing our discoveries or require us to expend financial and other resources to be able to continue to do so. In selecting a therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate for development, we take into account, among other considerations, the existence of third party intellectual property rights that may hinder our right to develop and commercialize that product candidate. The human genomic pool is finite. To our knowledge, third parties, including our competitors, have been filing wide patent applications covering an increasing portion of the human genomic pool and the proteins and peptides expressed therefrom. As a result of the existence of such third party intellectual property rights, we have been and may be further required to: · forgo the research, development and commercialization of certain therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates that we discover, notwithstanding their promising scientific and commercial merits; or · invest substantial management and financial resources to either challenge or in-license such third party intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in doing so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not always have available to us, in a timely manner, information of the existence of third party intellectual property rights related to our own discoveries. The content of U.S. and other patent applications remains unavailable to the public for a period of approximately 18 months from the filing date. In some instances, the content of U.S. patent applications remains unavailable to the public until the patents are issued. As a result, we can never be certain that development projects that we commence will be free of third party intellectual property rights. If we become aware of the existence of third party intellectual property rights only after we have commenced a particular development project, we may have to forgo such project after having invested substantial resources in it. We may infringe third party rights and may become involved in litigation, which may materially harm our business. If a third party accuses us of infringing its intellectual property rights or if a third party commences litigation against us for the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, we may incur significant costs in defending such action, whether or not we ultimately prevail. Typically, patent litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is expensive and prolonged. Costs that we incur in defending third party infringement actions would also result in the diversion of management’s and technical personnel’s time. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could prevent us or our collaborators and licensees from further developing our discoveries or commercializing our products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages or obtain one or more licenses from the prevailing third party. If we are not able to obtain such a license at a reasonable cost, if at all, we could encounter delays in product introductions and loss of substantial resources while we attempt to develop alternative products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could prevent us or our partners from commercializing available products and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Patent reform and other legislative changes in the US and other countries may affect our ability to obtain and enforce our patents. Recently, the US passed comprehensive patent reform laws, in the “America Invents Act,” or the “Act.” These changes may affect our ability to obtain and enforce patents in a number of ways. First, the Act provides for a period of ex parte post-grant review with expanded grounds for challenging validity of a patent for 9 months after grant of a patent. If the validity of one of our US patents is successfully challenged, some or all of the claims may be invalidated, such that we could not enforce the patent and hence could not protect one or more of our therapeutic product candidates. Other countries may also pass legislative changes to their patent laws which could materially affect – and even invalidate – one or more of our already filed patent applications, or even granted patents. 18 Increased progress in our technological environment may reduce our chances of obtaining a patent In order to obtain a patent to protect one of our therapeutic product candidates, we must show that the underlying invention (that is, the candidate itself or its use) is inventive. As an increasing amount of knowledge is available for genes, proteins and biological mechanisms, the bar is increasingly raised to show sufficient inventiveness, as inventiveness is judged against all publicly available information available prior to filing of the patent application (the exact date may vary by country or due to other circumstances). We were initially pioneers in a largely unknown field, but now there are many others working in our area. We may not be able to obtain patents for our product candidates due to the increased information published in this area. Collective patent applications, in which a large number of candidates are included in one patent application, are also challenged due to the raised bar for information that must be included in a patent application, as well as due to the availability of other publications. Our own published patent applications and other publications also serve as prior art against our new inventions and patent applications, and may also prevent us from obtaining new patents. Timing of filing of our patent applications may result in reduced patent rights. Filing of a first patent application, or priority application, for a given therapeutic product candidate, controls the life span of any resultant patents. If we file a patent application too early, the resultant patent may expire before the given therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate reaches the market. We may also be unable to obtain a patent due to the inclusion of too little experimental data or we may fail to describe an important feature of the given therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate. If we file a patent application too late, other prior publications may prevent us from obtaining a patent or obtaining a patent of sufficient breadth to protect a given therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We also rely on trade secrets, know-how and technology, which are not protected by patents, to maintain our competitive position. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we also rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our collaborators, employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators and sponsored researchers and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such party. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Risk Factors Related to our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents may be required to pay additional U.S. income taxes if we are classified as a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There is a risk that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return of U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of our shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will generally be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value (determined on a quarterly basis) of our total assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our analysis of our income, assets, activities and market capitalization, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011. However, there can be no assurances that the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge our analysis or our conclusion regarding our PFIC status. There is also a risk that we were a PFIC for one or more prior taxable years. If we were a PFIC during any prior years, U.S. holders who acquired or held our ordinary shares during such years generally will be subject to the PFIC rules regardless of whether we were a PFIC for 2011. However, if we were not a PFIC for 2011, U.S. holders who acquired our ordinary shares in 2011 will not be subject to the PFIC rules unless we are classified as a PFIC in future years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, which are relevant to this determination. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. For more details on our PFIC status see “Item 10. United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 19 We have a limited operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model upon which investors can base an investment decision or predict our revenues. Our ability to generate revenues from collaboration and licensing activities for current and future product candidate discoveries, primarily in the form of fees, milestones, research revenues and revenue sharing payments remains untested to date and we have received only minimal revenues from our initial collaborations, having recognized $250,000 of such revenue in 2009, $1.1 million of such revenue in 2010 and none in 2011. Furthermore, only in 2010 did we implement our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we intend to advance certain therapeutic product candidates past disease animal model proof of concept or other validation studies further towards pre-IND activities, and have no experience with respect to the financial terms that may be available at this stage of development. Therefore, our operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model provides an extremely limited basis for you to assess our ability to generate significant fee, milestone, research revenue and revenue sharing payments from the licensing and commercialization of our product candidate discoveries, or from research and discovery collaborations, and therefore on the advisability of investing in our securities. Our share price and trading volume have been volatile and may be volatile in the future and that could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit and could limit our ability to successfully raise funds. During the calendar years 2010 and 2011, our stock price on NASDAQ has traded from a low of $3.04 to a high of $5.80 and trading volume has been volatile from time to time. The volatile price of our stock and periodic volatile trading volume may make it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our ordinary shares including: · negative global macroeconomic developments; · our success (or lack thereof) in entering into collaboration agreements and achieving certain developmental milestones thereunder; · our need to raise additional capital and our success or failure in doing so; · achievement or denial of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our existing or new collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; · delay or failure by us or our partners in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of such trials; · period to period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · our inability to disclose the commercial terms of, or progress under, our collaborations; · our ability (or lack thereof) to show and accurately predict revenues; and · sales of our ordinary shares. We are not and will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel may also be affected by the changing security situation in the Middle East and particularly in Israel. As a result, these companies may experience volatility in their stock prices and/or difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Thus, market industry-wide fluctuations and political, economic and military conditions in the Middle East may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. 20 Risk Factors Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in the Middle East and in Israel may harm our operations. Our offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest, military conflicts and terrorist actions. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel, have in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region, as we have recently seen in Egypt, Syria and other neighboring Arab countries, may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, Iran has threatened to attack Israel and is widely believed to be developing nuclear weapons. Iran is also believed to have a strong influence among extremist groups in the region. These situations may potentially escalate in the future and turn violent which could affect Israel and us. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. We cannot give you any assurance that this will not continue to be the case. Additionally, if there were to be emergency conditions, some of our key employees may be called to active army duty for extended periods of time and that could adversely affect our operations. Our insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that such government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the dollar against the New Israeli Shekel. We hold most of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses and administrative expenses, in New Israeli Shekels (“NIS”). As a result, we are exposed to the risk that if the U.S. dollar devaluates against the NIS, our NIS denominated expenses will be greater than anticipated when reported in U.S. dollars. In 2009 and 2010 the dollar devaluated against the NIS (by 0.7% and 6.0%, respectively), however in 2011 the dollar appreciated against the NIS (by 7.7%), and as a result our NIS denominated expenses were lower than anticipated. Inflation in Israel compounds the adverse impact of any devaluation by further increasing the amount of our Israeli expenses. Israeli inflation may also (in the future) outweigh the positive effect of any appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the NIS, if, and to the extent that, it outpaces such appreciation or precedes such appreciation. The Israeli rate of inflation (3.9%, 2.7% and 2.2% in 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively) has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition during 2009, 2010 or 2011. For more information, see Note 2 of our 2011 consolidated financial statements. We may not continue to be entitled to certain tax benefits. Our operation has been granted an “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” status by the Investment Center in the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor that resulted in our currently being eligible for tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended. The availability of these tax benefits, however, is subject to certain requirements, including, among other things, making specified investments in fixed assets and equipment, financing a percentage of those investments with our capital contributions, compliance with our marketing program which was submitted to the Investment Center, filing of certain reports with the Investment Center and compliance with Israeli intellectual property laws. If we do not meet these requirements in the future, these tax benefits may be cancelled and we may be required to refund the amount of the benefits already received, in whole or in part, with the addition of linkage differentials to the Israeli Consumer Price Index and interest, or other monetary penalty. The tax benefits that we anticipate receiving under our current “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” programs may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects; Operating Results; Governmental Economic, Fiscal, Monetary or Political Policies that Materially Affected or Could Materially Affect Our Operations”. To date we have not received any such tax benefits because we have not yet generated any taxable income. 21 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, or our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. It may be difficult to obtain, within the United States, service of process upon us, since we are incorporated in Israel, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, almost all of whom reside outside the United States. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers in United States or Israeli courts based on the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws and it may be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in original actions instituted in Israel. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or affect a potential acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires that acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds be conducted through special tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a full tender offer can only be completed if (i) the (X) shareholders who decline or do not respond to the offer hold less than 5% of the company’s outstanding share capital or of the relevant class of shares offered to be purchased and (Y) the majority of offerees who do not have a personal interest in the acceptance of the offer accept the offer, or (ii) the shareholders who decline or do not respond to the offer hold less than 2% of the company’s outstanding share capital or of the relevant class of shares. Generally the shareholders who had their shares so purchased including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within six months following the acceptance of the tender offer, petition the court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. Israeli tax considerations may also make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax or who are not exempt under the provisions of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance from Israeli capital gains tax on the sale of our shares. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of various conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. Furthermore, under the Israeli Encouragement of Research and Development in the Industry Law, 1984 as amended (“R&D Law”), to which we are subject due to our receipt of OCS grants (as described above), a recipient of OCS grants such as us must report to the applicable authority of the OCS any change in the holding of the means of control of our company which transforms any non-Israeli citizen or resident into a direct interested party in our company. These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders, and it may therefore limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. For information about these limitations, see “Anti-Takeover Provisions under Israeli Law” under “Item 10. Additional Information.” We receive grants from the OCS that may restrict the transfer of know-how that we develop. We have received research and development grants from the OCS. The transfer of know-how developed under the programs submitted to the OCS and as to which we received the grants, or rights to manufacture based on and/or incorporating such know-how to third parties, might require the consent of the OCS, and payment of certain percentages to the OCS out of the amounts we receive as a result of the transfer of such rights Being a foreign private issuer exempts us from certain SEC and NASDAQ requirements. We are a “foreign private issuer” within the meaning of rules promulgated by the SEC. As such, we are exempt from certain provisions applicable to U.S. public companies including: · the rules under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or Exchange Act, requiring the filing with the SEC of quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K; 22 · the sections of the Exchange Act regulating the solicitation of proxies, consents or authorizations in respect of a security registered under the Exchange Act; · the provisions of Regulation FD aimed at preventing issuers from making selective disclosures of material information; and · the sections of the Exchange Act requiring insiders to file public reports of their stock ownership and trading activities and establishing insider liability for profits realized from any “short-swing” trading transaction (a purchase and sale, or sale and purchase, of the issuer’s equity securities within less than six months). In addition, under the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, a foreign private issuer may follow its home country practice in lieu of certain NASDAQ listing requirements. For example, under NASDAQ’s rules a company traded on the NASDAQ market is required to select director nominees either by independent directors constituting a majority of the board of directors or by a nominations committee comprised solely of independent directors. Similarly, NASDAQ’s rules require that compensation of the chief executive officer and other executive officers must be determined either by independent directors constituting a majority of the board of directors or by a compensation committee comprised solely of independent directors. However, we have opted to follow our home country practice with respect to certain approvals (See Item 16G. “Corporate Governance”). Because of these SEC and NASDAQ exemptions, investors are not afforded the same protections or information generally available to investors holding shares in public companies organized in the United States. 