Risk Factors There is uncertainty regarding Metal Storm continuing as a going concern. In order to meet Metal Storm’s objectives to develop, manufacture and market commercial products effectively, we will require additional funding until such time that product sales are of sufficient volume to generate positive cash flows from operations. This has taken longer and has cost more than originally anticipated. Based on the expected levels of operating expenditures, in order to continue its operations, Metal Storm will require additional sources of capital. While Metal Storm has previously been successful in raising additional capital, there can be no assurance that we will be able to raise sufficient capital to continue our operations. If we are unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain sufficient financing to continue to fund our current operations, we will be required to significantly reduce or cease operations altogether. Accordingly, there exists a substantial doubt about Metal Storm’s ability to continue as a going concern. 5 Table of Contents Our directors believe that Metal Storm will succeed in securing additional funding in the near future. As discussed below, in September 2006, we raised A$27.5 million through the issuance of convertible notes that mature in September 2009. We are in discussions with the largest holder of our convertible notes, Harmony Investment Fund Limited (“Harmony”), to extend the maturity date of the convertible notes. Under the Convertible Note Trust Deed (“Trust Deed”) entered into with ANZ Executors & Trustee Company Limited (“Trustee”) on July 11, 2006 which governs the convertible notes, an affirmative vote of 75% of the holders of the outstanding convertible notes is required to effect an amendment extending the maturity date. As of June 2, 2008, Harmony held approximately 81% of the outstanding convertible notes. In addition, we are seeking to raise approximately A$6 million by way of a rights issue of new convertible notes to existing noteholders who reside outside the United States and a placement of new notes to Harmony. This proposal would require various consents and approvals, including existing noteholders and potentially shareholder approval, and could be subject to other conditions, including the sale by Harmony of some of its existing convertible notes. There can be no assurance that the maturity of the existing convertible notes will be extended or whether the proposed new issuance of convertible notes will occur or, if it does occur, what the terms would be. If such funding were to be unavailable, there would be significant uncertainty as to whether Metal Storm would continue as a going concern and, therefore we may not realize the value of our assets and settle our liabilities at amounts different from those stated in our financial statements. No adjustments have been made to the financial statements relating to the recoverability and classification of the assets carrying amounts or classification of liabilities that might be necessary should Metal Storm not continue as a going concern. We may be required to redeem convertible notes before maturity, which redemption could cause us to become insolvent. In September 2006, we raised A$27.5 million under a rights offer of unsecured convertible notes (“Rights Offer”) in Australia and New Zealand. The convertible notes mature in September 2009 at which time Metal Storm must repay the face value of any convertible notes unless a holder of convertible notes (“Noteholder”) has elected to convert them into ordinary shares. As previously mentioned, we are in discussions with the largest holder of our convertible notes to extend the maturity date. In connection with the Rights Offer, Metal Storm entered into the Trust Deed. On the occurrence of a default event under the Trust Deed, Metal Storm must, if required by the Trustee, redeem all convertible notes outstanding by payment of the face value of the convertible note together with all accrued but unpaid interest. Under the terms of the Trust Deed, Metal Storm must maintain specific minimum cash balances for various periods through December 2008. Failure to satisfy this or other requirements could result in early redemption of the convertible notes. For further details of the Trust Deed, see Item 10C “Additional Information—Material Contracts—Terms of convertible notes—Trust Deed in connection with the Rights Offer”. In the event of early redemption of the convertible notes, Metal Storm would have to raise funds to meet such obligations. It is likely that it will not be able to do so in a timely manner, or at all, in which case Metal Storm could become insolvent. We may need additional capital and may not be able to raise additional capital on favorable terms, if at all. We may not have commercialized our technology when existing funds have been fully expended. Metal Storm will require additional capital by mid-2009 to fund product development programs. In addition, we may seek to exploit business opportunities that will require us to raise additional capital from equity or debt sources. In particular, developing and commercializing new technology and products to develop our business could require a significant commitment of additional resources that could, in turn, require us to obtain additional funding. We may also require further funds to pursue regulatory clearances, prosecute and defend our intellectual property rights, develop marketing capabilities and fund operating expenses. Our ability to obtain additional financing will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions and our operating performance. These factors may render the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive for us. The sale of additional equity or convertible debt securities would result in dilution to our existing stockholders. Additional debt could result in increased expenses and could result in further covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot be certain that we will be able to raise any required funding or capital on favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such additional funding or capital when needed, we may be required to reduce the scope of our anticipated plans, including our research and development activities, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have incurred operating losses in each year since our inception. We had net losses of A$10.0 million and A$15.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We expect to incur additional operating losses over the next few years. Our profitability is dependent on our ability, alone or with others, to complete the successful product engineering of our technology, 6 Table of Contents obtain any required regulatory clearances, and commercialize our products. We cannot be certain if or when we will achieve profitability. We are in the product engineering phase and do not yet have any product for sale based on our core technology. Most of our technology requires further research, development, testing and possibly regulatory approval prior to any commercial sales. Metal Storm does not currently derive any revenue from the commercial sale of any applications of our technology. We cannot be sure of the extent to which the technology or any products we develop will be able to penetrate the potential markets for defense or commercial applications or gain market acceptance. We cannot be certain of market acceptance of our technology or the rate of any market acceptance. We plan to develop our technology for use in a range of military, law enforcement, counter-terrorism and commercial applications. It is not yet known whether our technology will be accepted in the market for any of these applications or the rate of any market acceptance. The degree of market acceptance will depend on a number of factors, including the receipt and timing of any regulatory approvals, the establishment and demonstration of the need, safety, efficacy and cost-effectiveness of our technology and products, and our technology’s advantages over existing technologies. It is not yet known whether we will be able to fully develop or commercialize our technology and products, even if they perform successfully in research and evaluation trials. We are dependent on retaining key personnel. There is competition among defense development companies for qualified technical employees and retaining and attracting qualified individuals is critical to our success. The responsibility of overseeing day to day management and the strategic management of Metal Storm is concentrated amongst a small number of key people. In February 2008, our Chief Engineer resigned for personal reasons. The loss of the services of key personnel could have a material adverse effect upon Metal Storm, as we may not be able to recruit replacements for the key personnel within a short timeframe. Any catastrophic event involving our technology could adversely affect Metal Storm’s reputation. Any catastrophic accident involving the testing of our technology or the use of products that are developed utilizing our technology could severely damage Metal Storm’s reputation, marketing ability and results of operations. We work on research and development programs. Some of our technology applications progress in collaboration with U.S. and Australian government defense research and development program support. We have obtained such support from both the U.S. and Australian governments. We have entered into agreements with the departments of defense of these countries that provide conditions to the funding of research and development grants. For example, generally we are required to achieve certain milestones with respect to the development of our technology prior to receiving payment under the agreements. In addition, we have granted exclusive licensing rights under certain agreements and we are also in some circumstances required to repay money received under the agreements. Further, although the Australian programs provided for funding contributions by consortium members, we have received no direct funds from these programs. If Metal Storm is unable to continue existing research and development programs or to enter into new research and development programs, if there is a decrease of available funding in respect of such programs, or if the U.S. or Australian governments choose to exercise powers available to them under export control regulations to control the export of Metal Storm technology or products developed from it, this could have a material adverse affect on us. There are some limitations relating to our technology. In its usual configuration, the Metal Storm technology stacks a number of projectiles in each barrel, and a quantity of propellant or gunpowder is located in a space that separates the projectiles. As a result, to hold the additional propellant that may be required for barrels may be longer and therefore heavier. For these reasons, the development risk of our technology increases as the operating pressure of the system increases. The extent to which these factors will affect the development of and the practical applications of our technology is uncertain. Unlike conventional gun systems, which are mechanical in operation, our technology is reliant on a 100% electronic fire control system. Electronic systems may be adversely affected by electromagnetic interference. Failure to design the electronics systems to minimize susceptibility to natural or man-made electromagnetic interference may result in unplanned and potentially catastrophic failure of our technology. 7 Table of Contents We may not have adequate protection for our intellectual property. We principally rely upon patents, trade secret, copyright and contract law to protect our proprietary technology. We cannot be certain that any protective measures we have taken will be adequate to protect our proprietary technology. Many of the laws of foreign countries treat the protection of proprietary rights differently from, and may not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do, laws in Australia, the United States and Patent Co-operation Treaty countries. In addition, the laws of many countries, including Australia and the United States, provide governments with the ability to control or restrict the use of defense technologies. Patent matters involve complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the availability and breadth of claims sought in relation to patents. Statutory differences in patentable subject matter may limit the protection we can obtain for some of our inventions, or prevent us from obtaining patent protection, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, the enforceability of a patent is dependent on a number of factors, which may vary between jurisdictions. These factors may include the novelty of the invention, the requirement that the invention not be obvious in light of prior art, including prior use or publication of the invention, the utility of the invention and the extent to which the patent clearly describes the best method of working the invention. While we have obtained and continue to seek patent protection for our technology, we cannot be certain that: • any of the pending or future patent applications filed by us or on our behalf will be approved; • we will develop any additional proprietary products or processes that are patentable; or • third parties will not independently develop similar products or processes, duplicate any of the products or processes we have or are developing relating to our technology, or design around the patents we own with competitive advantages. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that patents held by third parties will not prevent the commercialization of products incorporating our technology or that third parties will not challenge or seek to narrow, invalidate or circumvent any of our issued, pending, or future patents. Protecting our proprietary technology from infringement by others may affect our business. We may need to engage in litigation to enforce patents, or to determine the scope and validity of third party proprietary rights. This could result in substantial costs to us and divert efforts from our business. We may have to participate in opposition proceedings before the Australian Patent Office or a foreign patent office, or in interference proceedings declared by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, to determine priority of invention of patent applications filed by competitors. Any such litigation, interference or opposition proceeding, regardless of the outcome, could be expensive and time consuming and adverse determinations in any such proceedings could prevent us from developing, manufacturing or commercializing our technology or products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to patent protection, we rely on unpatented trade secrets, know-how and proprietary technological innovation and expertise, which are protected, in part, by confidentiality agreements with our employees, advisers and consultants. We cannot be certain that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, or that our unpatented proprietary intellectual property will not otherwise become known or independently discovered by competitors. We also cannot be certain that relevant inventions will not be developed by persons not bound by such agreements. We may be subject to patent infringement claims from our competitors and other third parties. Our commercial success may depend, in part, on our ability to avoid infringing on patents issued to others. Although we are not aware of any action or threatened action alleging patent infringement or improper use of proprietary information by us, if we have to defend any such claims we could incur substantial costs and our management resources could be diverted. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we were found to be infringing any third party patents, we could be required to pay damages, alter our products or processes, obtain licenses or cease certain activities. We cannot be certain that if we required licenses for patents held by third parties that they would be made available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. To the extent that we required such licenses for the development of our 8 Table of Contents technology and we were unable to obtain them, we could be foreclosed from the development, manufacture or commercialization of technology or products requiring such licenses, or encounter delays in product introductions while attempting to design around such patents. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The Australian and U.S. governments may take action on patent applications and patents. Under the provisions of the Patents Act 1990 (Commonwealth of Australia) (“Patents Act”), the Commonwealth of Australia has the right to exploit, or authorize others in writing to exploit, an invention for the services of the Commonwealth of Australia at any time after a patent application has been made. The remuneration and terms for exploitation are determined by agreement between the person entitled to the benefit of the patent application, or the person’s nominee, and the Commonwealth of Australia. If there is no agreement, the determination is made by a prescribed court. Under the provisions of the Patents Act, a patent or a patent application may also be acquired by the Commonwealth of Australia. In that instance, all rights in the patent, or the patent application, vest in the Commonwealth of Australia. Compensation must be paid in an amount to be agreed between the person entitled to be compensated, and the Commonwealth of Australia. If there is no agreement, the amount of compensation is determined by a prescribed court. As such an acquisition clearly involves an acquisition of property, the terms of that acquisition must be “just”, within the meaning of the Australian Constitution. The Patents Act also allows the Commissioner of Patents, on the direction of the relevant Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia, to prohibit or restrict the publication of information about the subject matter of a patent application. While any such order is in force, the complete specification of the application is not open to public inspection, acceptance must not be notified and a patent must not subsequently be granted. As a result, if the Commonwealth of Australia were to take action on one or more of our patents under the Patents Act, we may not be able to exclusively commercially exploit such patents in the way we currently intend. Additionally, the compensation we receive in connection with such actions may be significantly less than what we would receive if we were to retain full rights to the patent. Under the U.S. Patent Act, the U.S. government may use an invention described in and covered by a U.S. patent without license of the owner. Where this occurs, the owner’s only remedy is an action against the U.S. government for the recovery of reasonable and entire compensation for the use and manufacture of the invention. Under the U.S. Patent Act, if one of the authorized offices of various government agencies identified under the Act holds the opinion that publication or disclosure of an invention described in a patent application would be detrimental to the national security, the Commissioner of Patents being so notified shall order that the invention be kept secret and also withhold the publication of the application or the grant of a patent for such period as the national interest requires. The owner of an application that has been placed under a secrecy order shall have the right to appeal from the order to the Secretary of Commerce. An applicant whose patent is withheld shall have the right to apply for compensation for the damage caused by the order of secrecy. It is also possible that countries other than Australia or the United States could take action that may impact upon our patents and patent applications. Any actions on our patents by the governments of Australia, the United States or other countries could affect our ability to protect our technology and our ability to effectively commercialize our technology. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have contracted to perform some systems integration work at a fixed price, which could turn out to be less than our costs. We perform systems integration work for third parties under contracts. Several of our contracts are bid on a fixed price basis. As such, there is inherent risk that our actual costs to perform the contracted job could exceed the agreed upon fixed price, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. There are potential adverse effects from competition and technological changes. The defense industry market is highly competitive and can be subject to significant technological change. Large, well-established defense companies are engaged in research and development and have considerably greater resources than Metal Storm to develop applications for defense technology. We cannot be certain that our competitors will not succeed in developing technologies and products that are more effective than any which we are developing, or which would render our technology and products obsolete or non-competitive. Much of the research being conducted on defense technology is funded principally by government agencies in the United States. We compete with such other companies for government resources allocated to such research and development projects. 9 Table of Contents There are existing defense companies that may have target markets similar to, if not the same as, ours. Such companies may be developing their own technology and products, which may ultimately compete with ours. This could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The defense industry market is characterized by changing technology, evolving industry standards, introductions and enhancements and changing customer demands. These market characteristics are exacerbated by the nature of the defense industry. Accordingly, Metal Storm’s success may depend on our ability to adapt to changing technologies, our ability to adapt our technology to evolving industry standards, and to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our technology, in response to both evolving demands of the marketplace and competitive product offerings. If we fail to adapt to such changes and evolution, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. There are existing companies who may have target markets similar to, if not the same as, ours. Such companies may be developing their own technology and products, which may ultimately compete with ours. Our technology may be perceived by our competitors as threatening existing markets and therefore may be resisted. As a result, we cannot be certain that we will be successful in commercializing our technology or that we will be able to penetrate the potential markets for our products. There may be reductions or changes in military expenditures. We anticipate that our primary customers will be the U.S. and Australian governments, the agencies of the U.S. and Australian governments’ Departments of Defense, the U.S. Department of Justice and the global defense industry. Our markets may be limited by U.S. and Australian government requirements pertaining to foreign markets. We also cannot predict future levels of defense spending with certainty and declines in military expenditures could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The impact of possible declines in the level of defense procurement on our results of operations and financial condition will depend upon the timing and size of the changes and our ability to mitigate their impact with new business, business consolidations or cost reductions. The loss or significant curtailment of a material program in which we participate could have a material adverse affect on our future results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to government regulation. We are developing products for sale in the defense and law enforcement industries, which are subject to extensive regulation. This regulation may adversely affect our business. For example, products incorporating our technology are required to undergo rigorous testing as well as extensive regulatory approval processes. These processes take significant time and require us to expend substantial resources. Delays in obtaining regulatory approvals could adversely affect the development and commercialization of our technology and products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We will need to obtain operating licenses and permits. Such licenses and permits may be difficult to obtain and retain depending on government policies, customs, changes in political leadership, and other factors. We cannot assure you that we will continue to be in compliance with any such licenses or permits or any other governmental requirements. If we fail to comply with any such licenses or permits or any other governmental requirements, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Products to be manufactured using our technology may also be subject to government regulation, including regulations governing use, specification, manufacture, handling, disposal, packaging, labeling, transport and import/export in Australia, the United States and in each of the countries into which such products are intended to be exported. See Item 4B “Information on Metal Storm - Business Overview—Regulation” for a discussion of government regulations that we are subject to in Australia and the United States. Compliance with government regulation requires us to allocate resources to monitoring compliance, training, security of goods, reporting and reviewing legislative and other changes to ensure we are complying with the relevant regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Failure to comply with government regulations could result in our inability to sell our products in those jurisdictions. There are risks inherent in U.S. government contracts. We expect that a significant portion of our sales will be associated with contracts and programs for the U.S. government in which there are significant inherent risks, including risks particular to the defense industry. The primary risks relate to: • Contract Termination 10 Table of Contents Any contracts we may enter into with the U.S. government may be subject to termination by it either for its convenience or in the event of a default by us as the contractor. Termination for convenience provisions may only provide for the recovery by us of costs incurred or committed, settlement expenses and profit on work completed prior to termination. Termination for default provisions may render us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. • Loss of Appropriations U.S. government contracts are usually conditional upon the continuing availability of U.S. Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds for a given program on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may take more than one year. Consequently, at the outset of a major program, the contract is usually partially funded, and additional monies are normally committed to the contract by the procuring agency only as appropriations are made by Congress for future fiscal years. In addition, most U.S. government contracts are subject to modification in the event of changes in funding. Any failure by Congress to appropriate additional funds to any program in which we participate or any contract modification as a result of funding changes could materially delay or terminate such program and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. • Procurement and Other Related Laws and Regulations If we enter into contracts with the U.S. government we may be subject to extensive and complex U.S. government procurement laws and regulations. These laws and regulations provide for ongoing U.S. government audits and reviews of contract procurement, performance and administration. Failure to comply, even inadvertently, with these laws and regulations and with laws governing the export of munitions and other controlled products and commodities, and any significant violations of any other U.S. federal law, could subject us to potential contract termination, civil and criminal penalties, and under certain circumstances, suspension and debarment from future U.S. government contracts for a specified period of time. Any such actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. • Protection of Proprietary Technology If we enter into U.S. government contracts, and in particular contracts that involve modification or development of our technology or products, we may face a risk that the U.S. government would seek to assert far-reaching rights to our inventions and technology. Such assertions could compromise our competitive position. • Changes and Adjustments The U.S. government often directs changes in contract work, particularly in the case of products under development. Recovery of additional costs and profit attributable to the changed work may require a protracted effort that could adversely affect our cash flow. • Competitive Bidding and Domestic Preferences We may need to obtain military contracts through either competitive bidding or sole-sourced procurement. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in having our bids accepted or, if accepted, that awarded contracts will be profitable. We may be disadvantaged in competing for contracts by laws and regulations that give preference to firms that offer products manufactured in the United States or to small or minority-owned businesses. We may also be disadvantaged by regulations limiting the access of non-U.S. citizens to classified information of the U.S. government or the use or storage of such information at facilities outside the United States. We have organized Metal Storm Inc., our U.S. subsidiary, as a U.S. owned “small business”, as defined by applicable U.S. Department of Defense requirements, which allows Metal Storm Inc. to contract directly with U.S. government and defense agencies in accordance with U.S. Department of Defense requirements. Our other U.S. subsidiary, Metal Storm U.S.A. Limited, is 100% owned by us and was formed to contract with both U.S. government agencies as well as non-government defense contractors. Additionally, inherent in either procurement process is the risk that if a bid is submitted and a contract is subsequently awarded, actual performance costs may exceed the projected costs upon which the submitted bid or contract price was based. To the extent that actual costs exceed the projected costs on which bids or contract prices were based, our potential profitability could be materially adversely affected. 11 Table of Contents We may have product liability exposure in the future. The testing, marketing and sale of our technology may result in products that are used in situations that may result in serious, permanent bodily injury, or even death, to those involved. A person injured in connection with the use of our products may bring legal action against us to recover damages on the basis of claims including personal injury, wrongful death, negligent design, dangerous product or inadequate warning. We may also be subject to lawsuits involving allegations of misuse of our products. If successful, personal injury, misuse and other claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. There can be no assurance that adequate or necessary insurance coverage will be available or will be obtained to limit our product liability exposure. We may be dependent on third party manufacturers, suppliers and teaming partners. We currently do not have any manufacturing capabilities. In the future, we may be required to enter into contracting arrangements with third party manufacturers in order to manufacture our products for large-scale, later-stage testing. If we need to use a third party to manufacture all, or a portion of, our products we cannot be certain that we will be able to enter into satisfactory arrangements with such contract manufacturers. If, at any time, we are unable to maintain or expand as necessary or contract for manufacturing on acceptable terms, our manufacturing capabilities and our ability to conduct tests with our products will be adversely affected, resulting in delays in submissions for regulatory approvals. We may also need to develop manufacturing resources, enter into collaborative arrangements with other parties who have established manufacturing capabilities, or have third parties manufacture our products on a contractual basis. We cannot be certain that we will have access on acceptable terms to the extensive additional financing, qualified personnel and relevant technologies that would be required in order for us to scale-up production and develop effective commercial manufacturing processes and technologies, or that we will be able to enter into collaborative or contractual arrangements on acceptable terms with parties that will meet our requirements in respect of quality, quantity and time lines. In addition, we may be dependent upon suppliers of parts for our projectile launching systems and teaming partners with whose weapons platforms our systems may be integrated. Any failure in delivery or performance by these third parties could cause a delay in the development or commercialization of our systems. Our share price has been and will likely continue to be volatile. As Metal Storm is a listed company in both Australia and in the United States, our share price will be subject to the numerous influences that may affect both the broad trend in the local and international share market and the share prices of individual companies and sectors. Investors should recognize that the price of ordinary shares and options in Metal Storm may fall as well as rise. Our share price has been and is likely to continue to be volatile, particularly due to our relatively limited trading volume. Our share price could fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors, including: • variations in our anticipated or actual operating results; • sales of substantial amounts of our shares; • announcements about us or about our competitors, including new products; • litigation and other developments relating to our patents or other proprietary rights or those of our competitors; • governmental regulation and legislation; • our available cash resources or the need to seek additional funding through public or private equity or debt financings; and • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our performance, or our failure to meet analysts’ expectations. Many of these factors are beyond our control. Our major shareholder, James Michael O’Dwyer, beneficially owns 31% of Metal Storm’s ordinary shares. He has sold some shares recently and, in the past, he has indicated an intention to sell approximately one-half of his shareholding to someone who would 12 Table of Contents likely be a long term investor. Any such sale and any significant subsequent resales may cause volatility in our share price. In addition, a significant number of shares could be issued upon conversion of the convertible notes and the exercise of options issued to Noteholders in September 2006. See Item 7A “Major Shareholders.” We are not currently paying dividends and we may not pay dividends in the future. Until we make a profit, our directors will not be able to recommend that any dividends be paid to our shareholders. Our directors will not resolve a formal dividend policy for us until we generate profits. Our future profitability will depend on future earnings, as well as our working capital requirements. Our directors’ current intention is to reinvest our income in the continued development and operation of our business. We may continue to generate operating losses on research projects until such time as our technology, or products resulting from research into our technology, are successfully commercialized. There are a number of factors beyond our control and our directors’ control, for example changes in technology, market competition, exchange rate fluctuations and governmental policy, which may also impact on our profitability and ability to pay dividends. We have been, and likely will be again, classified as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. We believe that we were a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”) for U.S. federal income tax purposes in 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006 but not in 2001 and 2007. Metal Storm could become a PFIC again in the future. For any U.S. holder that owns our American Depositary Shares or ordinary shares during any taxable year in which we qualify as a PFIC, our status as a PFIC could, among other things, have a material effect on the timing and character of income and gain, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, with respect to the holder’s American Depositary Shares or ordinary shares. It could also have a material adverse effect on the amount of U.S. federal income tax owed by the U.S. holder as a result of owning, receiving dividends on or disposing of American Depositary Shares or ordinary shares. See Item 10E “Additional Information—Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Status” for a more detailed description of the U.S. tax consequences of owning stock in a PFIC. U.S. holders are urged to consult their tax advisors regarding the consequences of owning and disposing of American Depositary Shares or ordinary shares, including the desirability of making, and the availability of, certain elections with respect to our American Depositary Shares or ordinary shares. Metal Storm provides no advice on your taxation matters. The above should not be taken as advice by the reader of this document. Our ADR holders are not shareholders and do not have shareholder rights. The Bank of New York, as depositary, executes and delivers our American Depositary Receipts, or ADRs, on our behalf. Each ADR is a certificate evidencing a specific number of American Depositary Shares, also referred to as ADSs. Our ADR holders will not be treated as shareholders and do not have the rights of shareholders. The depositary will be the holder of the shares underlying our ADRs. Holders of our ADRs will have ADR holder rights. A deposit agreement among us, the depositary and our ADR holders, and the beneficial owners of ADRs, sets out ADR holder rights as well as the rights and obligations of the depositary. New York law governs the deposit agreement and the ADRs. Our ADR holders do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. Shareholders are entitled to our notices of general meetings and to attend and vote at our general meetings of shareholders. At a general meeting, every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote on a show of hands. Every shareholder present (in person or by proxy, attorney or representative) and entitled to vote has one vote per fully paid ordinary share on a poll. This is subject to any other rights or restrictions which may be attached to any shares. Our ADR holders may instruct the depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying their ADRs, but only if we ask the depositary to ask for their instructions. If we do not ask the depositary to ask for the instructions, our ADR holders are not entitled to receive our notices of general meeting or instruct the depositary how to vote. Our ADR holders will not be entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting unless they withdraw the ordinary shares. However, our ADR holders may not know about the meeting enough in advance to withdraw the shares. If we ask for our ADR holders’ instructions, the depositary will notify our ADR holders of the upcoming vote and arrange to deliver our voting materials and form of notice to them. The depositary will try, as far as practical, subject to Australian law and the provisions of the depositary agreement, to vote the shares as our ADR holders instruct. The depositary will not vote or attempt to exercise the right to vote other than in accordance with the instructions of the ADR holders. We cannot assure our ADR holders that they will receive the voting materials in time to ensure 13 Table of Contents that they can instruct the depositary to vote their shares. In addition, there may be other circumstances in which our ADR holders may not be able to exercise voting rights. 