Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could affect our business, results of operations or financial condition and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors that the Company faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We have incurred substantial net losses and negative operating cash flows over the past three years and we cannot assure you that we will successfully achieve profitability and positive operating cash flows. We incurred substantial net losses over the past three years. Our net losses were $23.4 million, $47.5 million and $76.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. The Company has had and continues to experience, significant fluctuations in its working capital needs and has generated net operating cash flow of $7.2 million, $(29.5) million, and $(32.3) million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2013, 2014, respectively. Our profitability has been negatively impacted by the decrease in sales revenues in years 2013 and 2014 compared to 2012, a significant decrease in our gross margin in 2014 and significant expenses, costs and charges associated with our organizational restructuring activities in 2012, 2013 and 2014. 3 We are focusing on our innovative IP-20 platform to increase our revenues while making efforts to increase our gross margins and efficiency and control costs in order to enhance our profitability. However, we cannot be certain that the introduction of the IP-20 platform and these actions or others that we may take in the future will result in growth in revenue, operating profitability or net income or improved operating cash flow in subsequent periods. Fluctuating working capital needs may require additional or alternate cash resources. If we are unable to obtain such resources our ability to fund operations could be impaired. We have experienced significant fluctuations in liquidity and in our working capital needs. Our working capital needs are primarily impacted by the volume of our business and its profitability, our payment terms with our vendors and customers and the level of inventory we need to maintain in order to meet our contractual obligations. We believe that our cash resources can support our business plan for at least the next 12 months; nevertheless changes and fluctuations in the above elements may require additional cash. Should our cash needs increase; we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity offerings. If we are not able to raise other capital or borrow additional funds, we may not be able to fund our working capital and operational needs which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. However, our credit facility from our syndicate of banks provides for a gradual reduction of the maximum amount of loans from $63.5 million to $50 million by February 28, 2016. In addition, as our credit facility period ends at June 30, 2016, we will have to extend the credit facility agreement or replace it with another financing arrangement in order to support the operations beyond June 30, 2016. Our inability to extend this credit facility under terms applicable to our business plans or to find alternate sources for it may have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We could be adversely affected by our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit agreement or by the failure of any bank to provide us with credit under committed credit facilities. We have a committed credit facility available for our use from a syndicate of four banks. Our credit agreement contains financial and other covenants requiring that we maintain, among other things, a certain ratio between our shareholders’ equity and the total value of our assets on our balance sheet, a certain ratio between our net financial debt to each of our working capital and accounts receivable, and a minimum cash covenant. Any failure to comply with the covenants, including due to poor financial performance, may constitute a default under the credit agreement and may require us to seek an amendment or waiver from the banks to avoid termination of their commitments and/or an immediate repayment of all outstanding amounts under the credit facilities which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and ability to operate. In addition, the payment may be accelerated and the credit facility may be cancelled upon an event in which a current or future shareholder acquires control (as defined under Israel Securities Law) of us. For more information, please refer to Item 5: “OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AND PROSPECTS; Liquidity and Capital Resources”. In addition, the credit facility is provided by the syndication with each bank agreeing severally (and not jointly) to make its agreed portion of the credit loans to us in accordance with the terms of the credit loan agreement, which includes a framework for joint decision making powers by the banks. If one or more of the banks providing the committed credit facility were to default on its obligation to fund its commitment, the portion of the committed facility provided by such defaulting bank would not be available to us. 4 Due to the volume of our sales in emerging markets, we are susceptible to a number of political, economic and regulatory risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our sales are made in countries in Latin America, Africa, India and Asia Pacific. For each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, sales in these regions accounted for approximately 73% of our revenues. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, regulatory or economic events in these regions could adversely affect our business and result in significant revenue shortfalls and collection risk. Any such revenue shortfalls and/or collection risk could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2011, following the regulatory investigation in the Indian telecommunications market, which culminated in the revocation by the Supreme Court of India in 2012 of a large number of licenses and radio frequency spectrum, sales by vendors, including us, to telecommunications operators in India significantly decreased in 2013 and in the first half of 2014. In addition, substantial import controls into Argentina are currently in effect under which we need to obtain tax and customs authorities’ approvals for import activities. To date we have been able to obtain all required approvals, but we cannot assure you that more stringent requirements will not be imposed in the future. Due to the continued Venezuelan government policy that limits our customers’ ability to pay for imported goods in foreign currency, our revenue from Venezuela has decreased significantly in 2014. In addition we have recorded in 2014 a charge of $20.5 million to reflect a re-measurement of assets in Venezuela, primarily accounts receivables, which were denominated or linked to the U.S. dollars. We have no assurance that current conditions will not further deteriorate or that similar conditions will not occur in other developing countries, which might adversely affect our sales in these countries and/or our ability to collect the proceeds from such sales in the future. The following are some of the risks and challenges that we face doing business internationally, several of which are more likely in the emerging markets than in other countries: • unexpected changes in or enforcement of regulatory requirements, including security regulations relating to international terrorism and hacking concerns and regulations related to licensing and allocation processes; • unexpected changes in or imposition of tax or customs levies; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • restrictions on currency and cash repatriation; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws including foreign import restrictions which may be applicable to our products; • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • demand for high-volume purchases with discounted prices; • collection delays and uncertainties; • civil unrest, war and acts of terrorism; • requirements to do business in local currency; and • requirements to do manufacture or purchase locally; In addition, local business practices in jurisdictions in which we operate, and particularly in emerging markets, may be inconsistent with international regulatory requirements, such as anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations to which we are subject. It is possible that, notwithstanding our policies and in violation of our instructions, some of our employees, subcontractors, agents or partners may violate such legal and regulatory requirements, which may expose us to criminal or civil enforcement actions. If we fail to comply with such legal and regulatory requirements, our business and reputation may be harmed. 5 We face intense competition from other wireless equipment providers. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and result of operations would be materially adversely affected. The market for wireless equipment is rapidly evolving, fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Increased competition, which may differ from region to region, in the wireless equipment market could result in requirements to provide financing packages to our customers, reduced demand for our products, price reductions or reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our primary competitors include industry “generalists” such as Alcatel-Lucent, Fujitsu Limited, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., L.M. Ericsson Telephone Company, NEC Corporation, Nokia Solutions and Networks B.V. (NSN) and ZTE Corporation. In addition to these primary competitors, a number of smaller “specialists” microwave communications equipment suppliers, including Aviat Networks, DragonWave Inc., and SIAE Microelectronica S.p.A., offer or are developing products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers through whom we market and sell our products, which means that our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. Most of our principal competitors are substantially larger than we are and have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, service, marketing, distribution, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we have. They also have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we have. Many of these competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, have extensive knowledge of our target markets, and have begun to focus more on selling services and bundling the entire network as a full-package offering. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards and to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our competitors, especially those from China, may be able to offer customers financing that would increase the attractiveness of their products in comparison to ours. Additionally, the telecommunications equipment industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Examples include our acquisition of Nera Networks AS (“Nera”) in January 2011 (the “Nera Acquisition”) and the 2012 acquisition by DragonWave of the microwave division of NSN, which itself was formed as a joint venture between Nokia and Siemens. Other examples include the mergers of Alcatel and Lucent and the wireless divisions of Harris and Stratex Networks, and the acquisition by Ericsson of Marconi. These consolidations have increased the size and thus the competitive resources of these companies. In the future, current and potential competitors may make additional strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may allow them to increase their market share and competitive position. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If we fail to effectively manage deliveries of our products, we may be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Technical problems in our relatively new product line, may adversely affect our ramping up ability. We outsource substantially all our manufacturing operations and purchase ancillary equipment to our products from contract and other independent manufacturers and other third parties. If we fail to effectively manage and synchronize our deliveries from all these sources to the customer, if we underestimate our production requirements which could interrupt manufacturing or if one or more of the contract and other independent manufacturers or other third parties does not fully comply with their contractual obligations or experience delays, disruptions or component procurement problems, then our ability to deliver complete product orders to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired, could result in higher manufacturing costs, could damage to customer relationships or could result in our payment of penalties to our customers, which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. 6 In addition, our current product line, the IP-20 is relatively new and from time to time we still face technical problems which delay our deliveries. Any such technical problems may adversely affect our ramping up ability and may cause us to incur additional manufacturing costs or decrease our revenues and may have a material adverse effect on our business. We have in the past undertaken restructuring activities, most recently announced further restructuring activities in the fourth quarter of 2014, which may adversely impact our operations. We may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of these activities. We continue to evaluate our business to determine the potential need to realign our resources as we continue to transform our business to achieve desired cost savings in an increasingly competitive market. In prior years, we have undertaken a series of restructurings of our operations. We incurred restructuring charges of $4.6 million and $9.3 million, respectively, in 2012 and 2013. In 2014 we incurred charges of $6.8 million, and a $4.4 million in write-offs of discontinued product inventory primarily related to our most recently announced restructuring activity. We estimate that additional restructuring costs related to 2014 restructuring announcement will be approximately $1 to 2 million during the first half of 2015. We have based our restructuring efforts on assumptions and plans regarding the appropriate cost structure of our businesses based on our product mix and projected sales among other factors. These assumptions may not be correct and we may not be able to operate in accordance with our plans. If our assumptions are not accurate, we may decide that we must incur additional restructuring charges in the future. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will realize all or any of the anticipated benefits of any restructuring or that we will not further reduce or otherwise adjust our workforce or exit, or dispose of, certain businesses and product lines. Any decision to further limit investment or exit, or dispose of businesses may result in the recording of additional restructuring charges. As a result, the costs actually incurred in connection with the restructuring efforts may be higher than originally planned and may not lead to the anticipated cost savings or improved results. Further, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining personnel as a result of a perceived risk of future workforce reductions. A decrease in industry growth or reduction in our customers’ revenue from increased regulation or new mobile services may cause operators’ investments in networks to slow or stop, harming our business. We are exposed to changing network models that affect operator spending on infrastructure as well as trends in telecom operators and other service provider’s investment cycles. The emergence of over-the-top services, which make use of the operators’ network to deliver rich content to users but are not sharing their revenue with the operators, are causing operators to lose a substantial portion of their voice/SMS revenues. In addition, changes in regulatory requirements in certain jurisdictions around the world are allowing smaller operators to enter into, and compete in, the market, which may also reduce our customers’ pricing to their end-users further causing them to lose revenues. This is leading operators to spend more carefully on infrastructure upgrades and build-outs. Operators today are revising their old models because adding capacity to meet demand could force them to quadruple their current capital expense investments over the coming years. As a result, operators are looking for more cost-efficient solutions and network architecture that allow them to break the linearity of cost and capacity through more efficient use of existing infrastructure and assets. If operators fail to monetize new services, fail to introduce new business models or experience a decline in operator revenues or profitability, their willingness to invest further in their network systems may decrease which will reduce their demand for our products and services and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and from our expectations for any specific quarter. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter or from our expectations and guidance for any specific quarter. Most importantly, delays in completing product order delivery or completion of a sale or related services can cause our revenues, net income and operating cash flow to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels, especially as a large portion of our revenues are traditionally generated towards the end of each quarter. We therefore rely in our quarterly and yearly guidance on orders that we expect to generate during these periods Furthermore, we may reduce prices in specific instances in response to competition or increase spending in order to pursue new market opportunities. Factors such as geographical mix, delivery terms and timeline, product mix, related services mix and other deal terms may differ significantly from our prediction and impact our costs and expenses and cash flow from operations. 7 The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. In addition, our revenues, profitability and cash flow are typically affected by our customers’ capital expense, cash flow and acceptance criteria considerations which are subject to fluctuation on a quarterly and yearly basis. Global competition and current market conditions, including those specifically impacting the telecommunications industry, have resulted in downward pressure on the prices for our products, which could result in reduced revenues, gross margins, profitability and demand for our products and services. Currently, we and other manufacturers of telecommunications equipment are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, increased downward price pressure, particularly as we increase our customer base to include more tier 1 customers and continue to meet market demand in certain emerging markets and other less profitable countries, as a result, we may experience declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, to reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to design to cost and introduce new lower-cost products and product enhancements. Because customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may be required to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. Current or future price reduction commitments and any inability on our part to respond to increased price competition, in particular from tier 1 customers with higher volumes and stronger negotiating power, could harm our profitability, business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, following the Nera Acquisition, as a percentage from our total sales, we have increased sales of our products and services in Latin America, a region typically characterized as having strong downward pricing pressures, in response to the rapid build-out of cellular networks in those geographies. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, 34% and 22% of our revenues were earned in Latin America, respectively. We expect that our revenues from sales of our products in Latin America will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business in the future. In addition, we anticipate continued demand for our sales in India, a country which is historically characterized as having strong downward pricing pressures. Challenging global economic conditions could also have adverse, wide-ranging effects on demand for our products and services and for the products of our customers. The telecommunications industry has experienced downturns in the past in which operators substantially reduced their capital spending on new equipment. Continued adverse economic conditions, which still exist in certain jurisdictions, including certain countries in Europe, could cause network operators to postpone investments or initiate other cost-cutting initiatives to improve their financial position. Over the past several years, network operators have started to share parts of their network infrastructure through cooperation agreements rather than through legal consolidation, which may adversely affect demand for lower cost network equipment. Moreover, the level of demand by operators and other customers who buy our products and services can change quickly and can vary over short periods, including from month to month. If the current economic situation deteriorates or if the uncertainty and variations in the telecommunications industry continues, our business could be negatively impacted, including in such areas as reduced demand for our products and services, slowed customer buying decisions, pricing pressures, supplier or customer disruptions, or insolvency of certain of our key distributors, resellers, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) and systems integrators, which could impair our distribution channels, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. On December 15, 2014 we announced certain steps in order to accelerate our return to profitability. Some of these steps included managing the revenue mix more carefully, and seeking revised pricing, payment and other terms on new orders in certain situations. These steps may impact our market share and as a result may adversely affect our revenue and results of operation. 8 We face intense competition from other communications solutions that compete with our high-capacity point-to-point wireless products, which could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products compete with other high-speed communications solutions, including fiber optic lines and other wireless technologies. Some of these technologies utilize existing installed infrastructure and have achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than high-capacity point-to-point wireless technologies. Moreover, as more and more data demands are imposed on existing network frameworks and because of consolidation of fixed and mobile operators, operators may be more motivated to invest in more expensive high-speed fiber optic networks to meet current needs and remain competitive. Some of the principal disadvantages of high capacity, point-to-point wireless technologies that may make other technologies more appealing include suboptimal operations in extreme weather conditions and limitations in connection with the need to establish line of sight between antennas. In addition, customers may decide to use transmission frequencies for which we do not offer products. To the extent that these competing communications solutions reduce demand for our high-capacity point-to-point wireless transmission products, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Consolidation of our potential customer base could harm our business. The increasing trend toward mergers in the telecommunications industry has resulted in the consolidation of our potential customer base. In situations where an existing customer consolidates with another industry participant which uses a competitor’s products, our sales to that existing customer could be reduced or eliminated completely to the extent that the consolidated entity decides to adopt the competing products. Further, consolidation of our potential customer base could result in purchasing decision delays as consolidating customers integrate their operations and could generally reduce our opportunities to win new customers to the extent that the number of potential customers decreases. Moreover, some of our potential customers have agreed to share networks which results in less network equipment and associated services required and a decrease in the overall size of the market. Recently, network operators have started to share parts of their network infrastructure through cooperation agreements rather than legal consolidations, which may adversely affect demand for network equipment and could harm our revenues and gross margins. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products and if they experience delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. While a small portion of our manufacturing has been performed in our production facility in Slovakia, we outsource substantially all of our manufacturing processes to a limited number of contract manufacturers that are located in Israel, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these contract manufacturers. From time to time, we have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from these contract manufacturers. As part of our continued effort to reduce costs and the recent restructuring announcement on December 15, 2014, on March 18, 2015 we signed a contract with a certain contract manufacturer to outsource our production facility in Slovakia. The production transfer to the new manufacturer will take place during 2015, as a result we may experience more delays in shipment as well as quality issues than normal until ramp up and knowledge transfer is completed. Although we believe that our contract manufacturers have sufficient economic incentive to perform our manufacturing, the resources devoted to these activities are not within our control, and we cannot assure you that manufacturing problems will not occur in the future. Our recent negative cash flows and uncertainties regarding our liquidity have, and may continue to, raise concerns with manufacturers, resulting in their revising or limiting our credit or payment terms which could result in production delays. In addition, the operations of our contract manufacturers are not under our control, and may themselves in the future experience manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity could result in delays in deliveries of our product to our customers, which could subject us to penalties payable to our customers, increased warranty costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our contract manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or shortages in components required for manufacturing, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, some of our contract manufacturers have granted us licenses with respect to certain technology that is used in a number of our products. If we change contract manufacturers, we may be required to renegotiate these licenses or redesign some of our products, either of which could increase our cost of revenues and cause product delivery delays. If we change manufacturers, during the transition period, we may be more likely to face delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity, and our sales, profits and customer relationships may suffer. 9 Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates and restrictions related to foreign currency exchange controls. Although we derive a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars, a portion of our U.S. dollar revenues are derived from customers operating in local currencies which are different from the U.S. dollar. Therefore, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or delay payment. In addition, part of our revenues from customers are in non-U.S. dollar currencies, therefore we are exposed to the risk of devaluation of such currencies relative to the dollar which could have a negative impact on our revenues. We are also subject to other foreign currency risks including repatriation restrictions in certain countries, particularly in Latin America. See also the risk of “Due to the volume of our sales in emerging markets, we are susceptible to a number of political, economic and regulatory risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations” A substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, and to a lesser extent, other non-U.S. dollar currencies. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. In 2014, the NIS continued to fluctuate in comparison to the U.S. dollar, with the NIS depreciating by 12% against the U.S. dollar for that year. If the U.S. dollar weakens against the NIS in the future, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we are paid in non-U.S. dollar currencies or maintain monetary assets in non-U.S. dollar currencies, which could affect our reported results of operations. Also our cash balances in certain countries, especially in cases where conversion to U.S. dollars and repatriation of these cash reserves is restricted or impossible, may be devaluated significantly which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. In addition, we have assets and liabilities that are denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Therefore, significant fluctuation in these other currencies could have significant effect on our results. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on balance sheet accounts and forecast cash flows. We do not use derivative financial instruments or other “hedging” techniques to cover all of our potential exposure and may not purchase derivative instruments adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks. In some countries, we are unable to use “hedging” techniques to mitigate our risks because hedging options are not available for certain government restricted currencies. During 2014, we incurred losses in the amount of $9.9 million as a result of exchange rate fluctuations that have not been offset in full by our hedging strategy. The volatility in the foreign currency markets may make it challenging to hedge our foreign currency exposures effectively. Some of our competitors can benefit from currency fluctuations as their costs and expenses are primarily denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollars. In case the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies they might offer their products and services for a lower price and take market share from us, which might adversely affect our business, result of operation and financial condition. We are dependent upon sales of our single family of products into one principal market. Any reduction in demand for these products in this market would cause our revenues to decrease. We design, develop, manufacture and sell nearly all of our products to meet high-capacity point-to-point wireless backhaul needs. Nearly all of our revenues are generated from sales of our single portfolio of products. We expect sales of our single portfolio of products to continue to account for a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are more likely to be adversely affected by a reduction in demand for point-to-point wireless backhaul products than companies that sell multiple and diversified product lines or into multiple markets. 10 We engaged in supplying installation or turn-key projects for our customers. Such long-term projects have inherent additional risks. Problems in executing these turnkey projects, including delays or failure in acceptance testing procedures and other items beyond our control, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are engaged in supplying our products as total turn-key projects which include installation and other services for our customers. In this context, we may act as prime contractor and equipment supplier for network build-out projects, providing installation, supervision and commissioning services required for these projects, or we may provide such services and equipment for projects handled by system integrators. As we engage in more turn-key projects, we expect to continue to routinely enter into contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time and which often require us to deliver products and services representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any significant payment from the customer. Once a purchase agreement has been executed, the timing and amount of revenue, if applicable, may remain difficult to predict. The completion of the installation and testing of the customer’s networks and the completion of all other suppliers’ network elements are subject to the customer’s timing and efforts, and other factors outside our control, such as site readiness for installation, availability of power and access to sites, which may prevent us from making predictions of revenue with any certainty. This could cause us to experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, typically in turn-key projects we are dependent on the customer to issue acceptance certificates to generate and recognize revenue. In such turn-key projects, we typically bear the risks of loss and damage to our products until the customer has issued an acceptance certificate upon successful completion of acceptance tests. The early deployment of our products during a long-term project reduces our cash flow as we generally collect a significant portion of the contract price after successful completion of an acceptance test. If our products are damaged or stolen, or if the network we install does not pass the acceptance tests or if the customer does not or will not issue an acceptance certificate, the end user or the system integrator, as the case may be, could refuse to pay us any balance owed and we would incur substantial costs, including fees owed to our installation subcontractors, increased insurance premiums, transportation costs, and expenses related to repairing or manufacturing the products. Moreover, in such a case, we may not be able to repossess the equipment, thus suffering additional losses. If any of the above occurs, we may not be able to generate or recognize revenue and we may incur additional costs, any of which could materially adversely impact our results of operation and financial position. A single customerand customer grouprepresent a significant portion of our revenues, and if we were to lose this single customer or customer group or experience any material reduction in orders from this single customer or customer group, our revenues and operating results may be adversely affected. In 2014 we had a single customer which placed large orders that resulted in revenues equaling 16.1% of our total revenues. In the years 2013 and 2012 we had revenues from a single group of affiliated companies that accounted for approximately 15.4% and 11.6%, respectively, of our total revenues. Our sales are generally made from standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. Accordingly, these large customers are not obligated to purchase a fixed amount of products or services over any period of time from us and may terminate or reduce their purchases from us at any time without notice or penalty. We therefore have difficulty projecting future revenues from these customers. Based on recent discussions with these customers, we expect the volume of business in 2015 to be significantly lower than in 2014 and 2013. In addition, the customer group purchase or acceptance procedures could vary, as they did in 2012, even significantly. This could have, and has had, an adverse effect on our reported revenues, profitability and cash flow. In addition, the loss of these customers or any material reduction in orders could adversely affect different aspects of our results of operations, including cash flow, and financial position. 11 We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects, including our turn-key projects, under which we assume greater financial risk if we fail to accurately estimate the costs of the projects. We are engaged in supplying turn-key projects, involving fixed-price contracts. We assume greater financial risks on fixed-price projects, which routinely involve the provision of installation and other services, versus equipment –only sales, which do not similarly require us to provide services or require customer acceptance certificates in order for us to recognize revenue. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need for these fixed-price projects, the costs of completing these projects may exceed our original estimates, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We have identified material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting in our legal entity in Brazil as of December 31, 2014. Our failure to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in material misstatements in our financial statements, failure to meet our reporting obligations. This may cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could result in the trading price of our common stock to decline. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including the chief executive officer (“CEO”) and the chief financial officer (“CFO”), we carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, using the criteria established in “Internal Control—Integrated Framework” (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the Company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected in a timely manner. Based on the Company’s evaluation, our management, including the CEO and CFO, has identified a material weakness related to our legal entity in Brazil, which accounted for approximately 10% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31 2014, approximately 9% of our total assets as of December 31, 2014, finding that we did not maintain effective controls over our financial reporting and closing procedures as of December 31, 2014. This material weakness resulted from the fact that our accounting and supervisory personnel in Brazil did not have adequate accounting experience to enforce compliance with all the procedures that had been defined to ensure appropriate financial reporting. This deficiency could result in a material misstatement of the annual or interim consolidated financial statements that will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Notwithstanding the identified material weakness, after taking alternate measures to check the appropriateness of financial reporting over the main risk items, our management believes the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report fairly represent in all material respects our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows as of and for the periods presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. With the oversight of CEO and CFO, we have begun taking steps and plan to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the material weakness. See also ITEM 15: “CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.” If we do not successfully remediate this material weakness and conclude in future periods that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, we may fail to meet our future reporting obligations on a timely basis, our financial statements may contain material misstatements, our operating results may be negatively impacted, and we may be subject to litigation and regulatory actions, causing investor perceptions to be adversely affected and potentially resulting in a decline in the market price of our common stock. Any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives and cannot prevent intentional misconduct or fraud. Additional tax liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a global corporation, we are subject to income and other taxes both in Israel and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Our tax expense includes estimates or additional tax, which may be incurred for tax exposures and reflects various estimates and assumptions, including assessments of our future earnings that could impact the valuation of our deferred tax assets. From time to time, we are subject to income and other tax audits, the timings of which are unpredictable. Our future results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in our effective tax rate as a result of a change in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our overall profitability, changes in tax legislation and rates, changes in generally accepted accounting principles, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assessments and liabilities, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessments of our tax exposures. While we believe we comply with applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed additional taxes, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business activities in multiple countries may also expose us to withholding tax in those countries. Our inability to meet certain tax regulations related to withholding tax as well as different interpretations applied by the governing tax authorities to those regulations may expose us to additional tax payments and penalties which would have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, due to inaccurate forecasts, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers and other suppliers or to increased expenses should unexpected production ramp up be required. Our contract manufacturers and other suppliers are required to purchase inventory based on manufacturing projections we provide to them. If the actual orders from our customers are lower than these manufacturing projections, our contract manufacturers or other suppliers will have excess inventory of raw materials or finished products which we would be required to purchase. Alternatively, if orders for our products are significantly larger than our planned forecast, we may be required to expedite production and the purchase of raw materials, which may result in increased fees or expenses to our contract manufacturers or other suppliers. We require our contract manufacturers and other suppliers from time to time to purchase more inventory than is immediately required, and, with respect to our contract manufacturers, to partially assemble components, in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. In the absence of such increase in demand, we may need to make advance payments or compensate our contract manufacturers or other suppliers, as needed. We also may purchase components or raw materials from time to time for use by our contract manufacturers in the manufacturing of our products. Inventory of raw materials, work in-process or finished products located either at our warehouse or our customers’ sites as part of the network build-up may accumulate in the future, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors including: • new generations of products replacing older ones, including changes in products because of technological advances and cost reduction measures; and • the need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate. Further, our inventory of finished products located either at our warehouse or our customers’ sites as part of a network build-up may accumulate if a customer were to cancel an order or refuse to physically accept delivery of our products, or in turnkey projects which include acceptance tests, refuse to accept the network. The rate of accumulation may increase in a period of economic downturn. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand and are required to purchase excess inventory from our contract manufacturers or other suppliers or otherwise compensate our contract manufacturers or other suppliers for purchasing excess inventory, we may incur additional costs of manufacturing and our gross margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements and actual sales differ materially from these estimates or if we decide to change our product line and/or our product support strategy, our inventory levels may be too high, and inventory may become obsolete or over-stated on our balance sheet. For example in 2014 we recorded a $4.4 million write-off of discontinued product inventory related to our restructuring initiatives. This result would require us to write off inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Alternatively, if we underestimate our requirements and actual orders are significantly larger than our planned forecast, we may be required to accelerate production and purchase of supplies, which may result in additional costs of buying components at an unattractive rate, paying expediting fees and express shipment costs, over time and other manufacturing expenses and our gross margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our sales cycles in connection with competitive bids or to prospective customers are lengthy. It typically takes from three to twelve months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer, if an order is received at all. In some instances, we participate in competitive bids in tenders issued by our customers or prospective customers. These tender processes can continue for many months before a decision is made by the customer. In addition even after the initial decision is made we may be required for a lengthy and extensive testing and integration phase before a final decision to purchase is made. As a result, we are required to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to secure sales. In addition, the lengthy sales cycle results in greater uncertainty with respect to any particular sale, as events may occur during the sales cycle that impact customers’ decisions which, in turn, increases the difficulty of forecasting our results of operations. 13 Our contract manufacturers obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers and, in some cases, single or sole source suppliers. The loss of or problems in any of these suppliers could cause us to experience production and shipment delays and a substantial loss of revenue. Our contract manufacturers currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are obtained from a single or sole source supplier. Our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a single or sole source supplier or on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to the following risks: • The component suppliers may experience shortages in components and interrupt or delay their shipments to our contract manufacturers. Consequently, these shortages could delay the manufacture of our products and shipments to our customers, which could result in penalties or cancellation of orders for our products. • The component suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. In such an event, our contract manufacturers or we may be unable to develop alternative sources for the components necessary to manufacture our products, which could force us to redesign our products. Any such redesign of our products would likely interrupt the manufacturing process and could cause delays in our product shipments. Moreover, a significant modification in our product design may increase our manufacturing costs and bring about lower gross margins. • The component suppliers may increase component prices significantly at any time and with immediate effect, particularly if demand for certain components increases dramatically in the global market. These price increases would increase component procurement costs and could significantly reduce our gross margins and profitability. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new products that keep pace with technological developments, changing industry standards and our customers’ needs, we may not be able to grow our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards, as well as increasing pressures to make existing products more cost efficient. Accordingly, our success will depend, among other things, on our ability to develop and market new products or enhance our existing products in a timely manner to keep pace with developments in technology, and customer requirements. In addition, the wireless equipment industry is subject to rapid change in technological and industry standards. This rapid change, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could either render our products obsolete or require us to modify our products resulting in significant investment, both in time and cost, in new technologies, products and solutions. We cannot assure you that we will continue to successfully develop these components and bring them into full production with acceptable reliability, or that any development or production ramp-up will be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner. We are continuously seeking to develop new products and enhance our existing products. In late 2013 we announced a significant new line of products (IP-20 Platform) which we continue to enhance with newer products and capabilities. Developing new products and product enhancements requires research and development resources. We may not be successful in enhancing our existing products or developing new products in response to technological advances or to satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner, which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Moreover, we cannot assure that our newly-announced products will be accepted in the market or will result in profitable sales or that such products will not require additional quality assurance and defect fixing processes. Our past acquisition activities expose us to risks and liabilities. The Nera Acquisition was our first acquisition involving significant international operations. In acquiring Nera we undertook a number of identified contingent liabilities of Nera, such as various known litigations with third parties, and other contingent exposures with customers, suppliers and employees, all of which could accumulate to a substantial amount. In addition, we may be exposed to potential tax liabilities worldwide with governmental authorities, which could result in a substantial cost. We also undertook certain exposures for penalties and other financial risks posed by a few of Nera’s customers in the event of a default by us due to commercial or political circumstances, which may not be under our control. We assessed these contingent liabilities in the purchase price allocation. 14 However, our assessment of such contingent liabilities may not have been accurate and we may be exposed to actual payments, which may be significantly higher than we assessed. If we are required to make any actual payment on such potential tax liabilities, this could result in the Nera Acquisition being substantially more expensive than originally estimated and could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our acquisition activities expose us to risks and liabilities, which could also result in integration problems and adversely affect our business. Following the Nera Acquisition and other smaller acquisitions, we have increased the size of our operations significantly and intend to continue to explore potential merger or acquisition opportunities. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. The anticipated benefits and cost savings of such mergers and acquisitions or other restructuring may not be realized fully, or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected. Acquisitions involve numerous risks any of which could harm our business, results of operations or the price of our ordinary shares. We rely on a limited number of contractors as part of our research and development efforts. We conduct a part of our research and development activities through outside contractors. We depend on our contractors’ ability to achieve stated milestones and commercialize our products, and on their ability to cooperate and overcome design difficulties. This reliance is likely to increase as a result of the 2013 and 2014 restructurings, which principally affected our research and development organization in Norway and Israel. Our contractors may experience problems, including the inability to recruit professional personnel, which could delay our research and development process. These delays could: • increase our research and development expenses; • delay the introduction of our upgraded and new products to current and prospective customers and our penetration into new markets; and • adversely affect our ability to compete. If our contractors fail to perform, we may be unable to secure alternative contractors that meet our needs. Moreover, qualifying new contractors may also increase our research and development expenses. We sell other manufacturers’ products as an original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, which subjects us to various risks that may cause our revenues to decline. We sell a limited number of products on an OEM basis through relationships with a number of manufacturers. Some of these OEM products enable us to offer a complete solution to some of our customers. These manufacturers have chosen to sell a portion of their systems through us in order to take advantage of our reputation and sales channels. The sale of these OEM products by us depends in part on the quality of these products, the ability of these manufacturers to deliver their products to us on time and their ability to provide both presale and post-sale support. Sales of OEM products by us expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, technical and financial problems these companies might encounter or the promotion of their products through other channels and turning them into competitors rather than partners. In addition, failure by our OEM manufacturers to deliver their products or discontinue production of their products may cause difficulty to and may have an adverse effect on our business. If any of these risks materialize, we may not be able to develop alternative sources for these OEM products, which may cause us to lose certain customers or a part of their business which would cause our revenues to decline. 15 If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, or if sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation in most jurisdictions and to various international treaties relating to wireless communications equipment and the use of radio frequencies. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of regulatory requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of those products. Also, these regulatory requirements may change from time to time, which could affect the design and marketing of our products as well as the competition we face from other suppliers’ products. In addition, in most jurisdictions in which we operate, users of our products are generally required to either have a license to operate and provide communications services in the applicable radio frequency or must acquire the right to do so from another license holder. Consequently, our ability to market our products is affected by the allocation of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities, which may be by auction or other regulatory selection. These governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products. We may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities and as we develop new products either our products or some of the regulations will need to change to take full advantage of the new product capabilities in some geographies. Historically, in many developed countries, the lack of available radio frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. If sufficient radio spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, regulatory decisions allocating spectrum for use in wireless backhaul at frequencies used by our competitors’ products could increase the competition we face. Other areas of regulation and governmental restrictions, including tariffs on imports and technology controls on exports or regulations related to licensing and allocation processes, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our products are used in critical communications networks which may subject us to significant liability claims. Because our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend, and could divert management’s attention and seriously damage our reputation and our business. Widespread use of wireless products may have health and safety risks. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from wireless telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. Claims against other wireless equipment suppliers or wireless service providers could adversely affect the demand for our backhaul solutions. 16 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, as well as contractual rights, to protect our intellectual property. In connection with the Nera Acquisition, we acquired certain patents and patent applications. However, our patent portfolio may still not be as extensive as those of our competitors. As a result, we may have limited ability to assert any patent rights in negotiations with, or in counterclaiming against, competitors who assert intellectual property rights against us. We also enter into confidentiality, non-competition and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors engaged in our research and development activities, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and certain customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot assure you that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. Moreover, under current law, we may not be able to enforce the non-competition agreements with our employees to their fullest extent. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. Any such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. The wireless equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been exposed to infringement allegations in the past. We may in the future be notified that we are allegedly infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Any such litigation or claim could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages (including potentially treble damages and attorney’s fees should a court find such infringement willful), cease the use and licensing of allegedly infringing technology and the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts may be materially adversely affected. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in all these professional areas while also taking into consideration varying geographical needs and cultures. We compete with other companies for personnel in all of these areas, both in terms of profession and geography, and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require globally is competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel due to compensation or other factors, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. Risks Related to Our Common Shares If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates and potentially punitive interest charges on certain distributions and on the proceeds of share sales. We do not believe that for 2014 we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Non-U.S. corporations may generally be characterized as a PFIC for any taxable year, if after applying certain look through rules, either (1) 75% or more of such corporation’s gross income is passive income, or (2) at least 50% of the average value of all such corporation’s assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply. Similar rules apply to distributions that are “excess distributions.” 17 It is possible that the United States Internal Revenue Service could attempt to treat us as a PFIC for the 2014 year or prior tax years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, including fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2015 or in subsequent years. For a discussion of the rules relating to passive foreign investment companies and related tax consequences, please see the section of this prospectus supplement entitled “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations” – “Tax Consequences if we are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” The price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. Such volatility may expose us to class actions against the Company and its senior executives. The price of our ordinary shares has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In the two year period ended December 31, 2014, the price of our ordinary shares has ranged from a high of $5.15 per share to a low of $0.93 per share. On December 31, 2013 and 2014, the closing price of our ordinary shares was $2.97 per share and $1.01 per share, respectively. After December 31, 2014 the share price continued to decrease to a low point of $0.88 per share. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: • announcement of corporate transactions or other events impacting our revenues; • announcements of technological innovations; • customer orders or new products or contracts; • competitors’ positions in the market; • Changes in the Company’s estimations regarding looking forward statements and/or announcement of actual results that vary significantly from such estimation; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; • other announcements, whether by the Company or others, referring to the Company’s financial condition results of operations and changes in strategy; • the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof); and • the general state of the credit markets, the current volatility of which could have an adverse effect on our investments. In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares following periods of volatility. On January 6, 2015 the Company was served with a motion to approve a purported class action, naming the Company, its Chief Executive Officer and its directors as defendants. The motion was filed with the District Court of Tel-Aviv. The purported class action alleges breaches of duties by making false and misleading statements in the Company’s SEC filings and public statements. The Company believes it has strong defense against these allegations and that the District Court should deny the motion to approve the class action, however, there is no assurance that the Company’s position will be accepted by the District Court. In such case the Company may have to divert attention of its executives to deal with this class action as well as incur expenses that may be beyond its insurance coverage for such cases, which cause a risk of loss and expenditures that may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. 18 Due to the size of their shareholdings, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel have influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. As of March 31, 2015, Yehuda Zisapel and Nava Zisapel beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 4.65% of our outstanding ordinary shares; and Zohar Zisapel, our Chairman, beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 13.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Such percentages include options which are exercisable within 60 days of March 31, 2015. Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, who are brothers, do not have a voting agreement. Regardless, these shareholders may influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. Yehuda and Nava Zisapel have an agreement which provides for certain coordination in respect of sales of shares of Ceragon as well as for tag along rights with respect to off-market sales of Ceragon. Provisions of our Articles of Association, Israeli law and financing documents could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Under certain provisions the Israeli Companies Law, a request of a creditor of a party to the proposed merger to the court may delay or prevent a merger. Further, a merger generally may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Our Articles of Association provide that our directors (other than the external directors) are appointed for a period of three years. This longer appointment term may discourage a takeover of our Company. Furthermore, certain provisions of other Israeli laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us. For example, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as share-for-share exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. In addition, approvals of a merger that may be in certain circumstances required under the Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988, and under of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development of 1984 may impede, delay or restrict our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction. Compliance with conflict mineral disclosure requirements will create additional compliance cost and may create reputational challenges. Pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, United States publicly-traded companies are required to disclose use or potential use of certain minerals and their derivatives, including tantalum, tin, gold and tungsten, that are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining countries and deemed conflict minerals. These requirements necessitate due diligence efforts to assess whether such minerals are used in our products in order to make the relevant required annual disclosures. We filed our initial conflict minerals report on June 2, 2014. There are, and will be, ongoing costs associated with complying with these recent disclosure requirements, including diligence to determine the sources of those minerals that may be used or necessary to the production of our products. We may face reputational challenges that could impact future sales if we determine that certain of our products contain minerals not determined to be conflict free or if we are unable to verify with sufficient accuracy the origins of all conflict minerals used in our products. 19 Risks Relating to Israel Conducting business in Israel entails special risks. Our principal offices and a substantial portion of our research and development and contract manufacturers’ facilities are located in Israel. We outsource part of our manufacturing operations to major contract manufacturers outside of Israel and our sales occur mostly outside of Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: · Hostilities involving Israel; · A full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; · The interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; and · A downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Israel has been subject to a number of armed conflicts that have taken place between it and its Arab neighbors. While Israel has entered into peace agreements with both Egypt and Jordan, Israel has not entered into peace arrangements with any other neighboring countries and the numerous uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East, including in Egypt, Syria and Jordan which border Israel, have introduced additional uncertainty in the region. Recent events in Iran, including reports of its continuing nuclear development program, have further heightened the antipathy between Israel and Iran. Over the past several years there has been a significant deterioration in Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority and a related increase in violence, including recent hostilities related to Lebanon and the Gaza Strip, which is controlled by the Hamas militant group. Efforts to resolve the problem have failed to result in a permanent solution. In 2014 Israel experienced another round of armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, with missiles reaching north Tel-Aviv. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further deterioration of relations with the Palestinian Authority, Hamas or countries in the Middle East could disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business conditions and those of our major contract manufacturers and could harm our results of operations. In addition, a significant number of our employees who are Israeli citizens are subject to an obligation to perform reserve military service. In case of further regional instability such employees who may include one or more of our key employees may be absent for extended periods of time which may materially adversely affect our business. Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus, there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. For example, certain countries participating in the boycott described above have recently been increasing their investment in telecom operators in Africa. This growing control of the market in Africa could lead to a decrease of our sales in Africa in the future. The boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business in the future. We can give no assurance that the political and security situation in Israel, as well as the economic situation, will not have a material impact on our business in the future. 20 Because we received Israeli government grants for research and development expenditures, we are subject to ongoing restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies or know how outside of Israel. We received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Economy, or the OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development of 1984 and regulations promulgated thereunder, which we refer to as the R&D Law, with respect to a portion of our products which are deemed to have been developed with OCS funding. The R&D Law and the terms of the grants we received restrict our ability to transfer technology or know how developed with OCS grants or any rights derived from such technology or know how, including by way of the sale of the technology or know how, the grant of a license to such technology or know how or the manufacture of our products based on such technology or know how, outside of Israel unless we obtain the approval of the OCS. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approvals. Even if such OCS approvals are obtained we will be required to pay increased royalties to the OCS for the transfer of manufacture or, in case of a transfer of the technology or know how outside of Israel by way of a sale or granting of a license, be required to pay a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer, but not less than the OCS grants. These restrictions and requirements for payment may impair our ability to sell our technology assets outside of Israel or to outsource or transfer development or manufacturing activities with respect to any product or technology outside of Israel. Furthermore, the consideration available to our shareholders in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know how developed with OCS funding (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any amounts that we are required to pay to the OCS. In addition, under the R&D Law, any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our share capital is required to notify the OCS and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. In each of 2013 and 2014 we received new approvals for grants from the Government of Israel through the OCS, for the financing of certain research and development expenditures in Israel (the “New Grant”) in the amount of approximately $0.7 million, which has already been received, and $1.8 million, which has been partially received. The New Grants require us to comply with the requirements of the R&D Law in the same manner applicable to previous grants. Furthermore, the consideration in a transaction involving the transfer outside of Israel of technology or know how developed with the New Grants (such as a merger or similar transaction) may be reduced by any royalties that the recipient of such technology or know how will be required to pay to the OCS on all past sales of products based on the technology or know how developed with the New Grants. In addition to the royalty-bearing grants described above, in March 2014 we agreed to participate in two “Magnet” Consortium Programs, sponsored by the OCS, which grants do not bear any royalty obligations, but, as the R&D Law applies to these programs, the restrictions on transfer of know how or manufacturing outside of Israel, as described above, are in effect. See “Israeli Office of Chief Scientist” in Item 4 below. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program and our beneficiary enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Company has capital investment programs that have been granted approved enterprise status (“Approved Programs”) and a program under beneficiary enterprise status pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (“Beneficiary Program”). When we begin to generate taxable income from these approved or beneficiary enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for regular enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise or beneficiary enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. The tax benefits available to approved and beneficiary enterprise programs may be reduced or eliminated in the future. This would likely increase our tax liability. The Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved or beneficiary enterprise programs. Our approved and beneficiary program and the resulting tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level and the new legislation regarding Preferred Enterprise may not be applicable to us or may not fully compensate us for such change. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability. The amount, if any, by which our tax liability would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. See Item 10: “ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; Taxation; Tax Benefits under the 2011 Amendment,” for a description of legislation on “Preferred Enterprise.” 21 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, and our officers and directors, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel and to serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, and including a judgment for the payment of compensation or damages in a non-civil matter, provided that: • the judgment was given by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to give it; • the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given; • the judgment is no longer appealable; • the judgment was given by a court that is competent to do so under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; • there has been due process and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to be heard and to present his or her evidence; • the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and • an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court or tribunal at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court; Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. 22 Your rights and responsibilities as our shareholder will be governed by Israeli law which may differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders of U.S. corporations. Because we are incorporated under Israeli law, the rights and responsibilities of our shareholders are governed by our Articles of Association and Israeli law. These rights and responsibilities differ in some respects from the rights and responsibilities of shareholders in United States-based corporations. In particular, a shareholder of an Israeli company has a duty to act in good faith and in a customary manner in exercising its rights and performing its obligations towards the company and other shareholders and to refrain from abusing its power in the company, including, among other things, in voting at the general meeting of shareholders on certain matters, such as an amendment to the company’s articles of association, an increase of the company’s authorized share capital, a merger of the company and approval of related party transactions that require shareholder approval. A shareholder also has a general duty to refrain from discriminating against other shareholders. In addition, a controlling shareholder or a shareholder who knows that it possesses the power to determine the outcome of a shareholders’ vote or to appoint or prevent the appointment of an office holder in the company or has another power with respect to the company, has a duty to act in fairness towards the company. Israeli law does not define the substance of this duty of fairness and there is limited case law available to assist us in understanding the nature of this duty or the implications of these provisions. These provisions may be interpreted to impose additional obligations and liabilities on our shareholders that are not typically imposed on shareholders of U.S. corporations. 