Risk Factors Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and our share price may decline. We can give no assurance that we will successfully address any of these risks. The principal risks are described below. Factors Related to our Financial Results and Financing Needs We cannot provide assurance that our business model will succeed in generating revenues. Our business model is primarily based on receiving revenues in the form of fees, milestones and royalties, and other revenue sharing payments from licensees and co-development partners of drug and diagnostic products based on product candidate discoveries (i) made by us independently and/or (ii) made pursuant to various forms of collaborations with partner companies whereby our discovery platforms or other discovery capabilities are targeted to areas of interest of such partner companies (“discovery on demand” collaborations). To date we have received only minimal revenues from the licensing of our initial product candidates, recognizing $10,000, $180,000 and $40,000 of such revenue in 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively. We cannot be certain this business model will generate a stable or significant revenue stream. The inability to derive adequate revenues from our business model would significantly impede improvement in our operating results and liquidity. We have a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may never achieve or sustain profitability As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $157 million resulting in large part from our primary focus from 1997 to 2004 on research and infrastructure building activities. These activities were focused on obtaining deeper understandings of selected biological phenomena at the molecular level and creating algorithms and other computational biology tools that would allow the building of predictive models of such phenomena. During this period, the costs of such research and discovery activities were partially offset by limited revenues obtained by providing certain of these capabilities to third parties in the form of services and software products. In late 2004, we began to focus a portion of our research and discovery efforts on the creation of field specific discovery platforms intended to identify novel drug and diagnostic product candidates and discontinued commercialization of computational biology tools and services, as reflected by the resulting decrease in revenues. We incurred net losses of approximately $13 million in 2006, approximately $12 million in 2007 and approximately $13 million in 2008. We expect to continue to incur net losses in the future due in part to the costs and expenses associated with our research and discovery activities, including the building and validation of additional discovery platforms as well as the nature of our business model. To date, we have received only minimal revenues from our initial licensing activities and we cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. 6 We may be required to allocate substantial additional funds in the future to our discovery and validation activities, and we may never be able to achieve profitability. Our discovery efforts primarily consist of developing and validating discovery platforms on a field by field basis, and then utilizing these platforms on our own or pursuant to collaborations with others to discover therapeutic and diagnostic product candidate molecules that appear to have potential applications. In 2008, as in previous years, we allocated a substantial portion of our cash and other resources to such research, validation and discovery activities and we intend to continue to do so. To date, these activities have generated only negligible revenues. These activities may never generate significant revenues and we may never achieve profitability. We will need to raise additional funds. If we are unable to raise additional funds in the future, we may need to curtail or cease operations, and if we do raise additional funds, to the extent such funding is based on the sale of equity, our existing shareholders are likely to experience dilution of their shareholdings. As of December 31, 2008, we had cash and cash equivalents, short-term deposits, long-term deposits and marketable securities of approximately $7.2 million, compared with approximately $17.2 million as of December 31, 2007, in both cases, not including the market value of the 2,150,000 shares of Evogene ordinary shares owned by the Company. We do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability in the near future and believe that we will need additional funds to continue financing our discovery, validation, development and commercialization activities. Potential sources of additional funds include milestones and fees under current and/or new specific product based agreements, fees and other payments under “discovery or demand” or other broader collaborations, sale of all or a portion of our Evogene shares, a rights offering of Compugen securities to our shareholders or various other equity based arrangements. We cannot provide any assurance that additional funding will be available from any of these potential sources on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain additional funding will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. In particular, the recent downturn in the credit and liquidity markets may restrict our ability to borrow funds or raise capital on favorable terms or at all. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or any other convertible securities, we expect that our shareholders will experience dilution of their shareholdings. If we are unable to obtain the required additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to curtail or cease our discovery and validation activities, or restrict or cease operations. Therefore, the Board of Directors of the Company has adopted a contingency plan that includes various cost reduction measures which, in the absence of obtaining the required additional funding (including but not limited to, from the sale of Evogene shares or otherwise) would enable the Company to continue to support its operations through December 31, 2009. For more information, see Note 1e of our 2008 consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to continue to successfully apply for research and development grants, our financial results may be materially harmed. We have received research and development grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, from the Israel-U.S. Bi-national Industrial Research and Development Foundation and from the European Community, under the European Union’s 6th Framework Program. In 2008, the grants we received totaled approximately $544,000, compared with approximately $1.4 million in 2007, and approximately $1.7 million in 2006. Our entitlement to receive these grants is dependent on, among other things, our compliance with the various grants’ respective terms and conditions. In addition, the total value of grants that the Office of the Chief Scientist makes available generally, and to each individual grantee, has gradually decreased in recent years and the Office of the Chief Scientist may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. Our contingent liability to repay these grants out of future revenues totaled approximately $6.0 million at December 31, 2008. If we do not comply with the terms and conditions of the grants or if we do not succeed in obtaining these or similar grants in the future, or if we will be able to obtain only a reduced amount of grants, we may have to restrict certain research activities. 7 The current world-wide financial crisis and its impact on capital, which may continue indefinitely or intensify, could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition and may affect our ability to access certain sources of funding. The global economy is currently undergoing a period of rapid decline. This has led, and could further lead, to reduced consumer spending in the foreseeable future, which may include reduced spending on healthcare and materially impact the earnings and financial health of our collaborators and potential collaborators. As a consequence, our current customers and other prospective customers may postpone, reduce or even forego research and development activities, including acquiring licenses for therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, which could further adversely affect our potential revenues and profitability. We cannot predict when these conditions will improve. If we attempted to obtain long term credit to finance our operations, we may not be able to do so. In the past, we accessed the capital markets to support our business activities. In the future, we may not be able to obtain capital market financing on favorable terms, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow or even to continue our business operations. Factors Related to our Discovery and Development Activities and to the Commercialization of our Discoveries Our approach to discovering novel therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates is itself novel and has not yet been fully proven or validated in the form of marketed products and may never lead to marketed products. If this approach does not prove to be successful, our business will be significantly harmed. Our method of discovering novel product candidates primarily involves first utilizing our computational biology capabilities and predictive models to generate in silico (ie. computers) a large number of potential product candidates in the field of interest. Next we utilize proprietary algorithms and tools and other methodologies to select from this large number of potential product candidates a smaller number of novel molecules that we believe have the highest probability of being product candidates for such field of interest. Some or all of these selected molecules are then synthesized and undergo in vitro and/or in vivo validation testing. By using this approach, we have successfully validated the predictive capabilities of a number of discovery platforms, and in addition have discovered numerous product candidates in a number of diagnostic and therapeutic areas that were first predicted in silico and then initially validated in the laboratory. However, our approach in general has not yet been proven or validated beyond this initial validation and we cannot predict whether any of such discoveries will be suitable for development into therapeutic or diagnostic products or that our discovery method will continue to yield product candidates. If we or our licensees and collaborators are not able to find any beneficial biological activity for the therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates that we discover, or potential licensees or collaborators do not believe that this is an effective discovery methodology, or our approach is ultimately proven to be ineffective or non-competitive for discovering candidates suitable for development into therapeutic and diagnostic products, or we or our licensees or collaborators fail to commercialize our discoveries, our business will likely be significantly harmed. The success of our business largely depends on our discovery platforms and related technologies. The predictive capabilities of our discovery platforms with respect to yielding marketable products remains largely unproven and may never lead to marketable products. If we fail to continue to develop and enhance our discovery platforms, or we or our partners fail to make novel discoveries, or focus on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our proprietary discovery platforms are designed to predict, select and validate potential product candidates in each selected field of interest. These discovery platforms essentially model biological processes, whether physiological or pathological. This modeling is partial and might not be sufficient to result in true predictions to the biological processes as they occur naturally. Even if we make true or partially true predictions, we might be able only to repeat discoveries already made by others and not be able to make novel discoveries. This may result either from feeding our discovery platforms with data already used by others or by developing discovery platforms already developed, wholly or partially by others, or from inherent incapacity of the prediction capabilities of our discovery platforms. In addition, since our research and discovery resources are limited we might be able to progress with only a fraction of our discoveries. We currently assess which discoveries to validate based on various criteria. If we or our partners fail to select the right candidates to progress with, either due to lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in a marketable product. Additionally, we may not be able to make the necessary new developments and enhancements to our discovery platforms and related technologies in order to compete successfully within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. 8 We rely on access to public and commercial databases to feed our discovery platforms and on the quality of the data available from those databases, and if we are denied access to these databases for any reason or if the quality of available information is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, our operations and business may be harmed. In the development and validation of our discovery platforms and of the resulting therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use public and commercially available databases. The quality of our platforms and discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of the data in these databases. If we are denied access to these databases, or if we are granted access to such databases on terms, which are not commercially reasonable, or if the quality of data available from those databases is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, our business and our results of operation may be materially harmed. We rely on access to high-quality biological samples supported by detailed clinical records to conduct parts of our discovery activities and to perform experimental analysis and initial clinical validation. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use commercially available biological samples. The quality of our discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of available biological samples. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. There are risks that are inherent in the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products, and if these risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We face a number of risks of failure that are inherent in the process of developing and commercializing therapeutic and diagnostic products. These risks include, among other risks, the possibility that: — our therapeutic product candidates will be found to be pharmacologically ineffective or toxic or to have other detrimental side effects; — our diagnostic product candidates will prove to be ineffective in distinguishing between healthy and disease samples or in providing information relating to a patient’s response to a drug; — our collaborators will not fully develop or commercialize to the full extent our product candidates for economic reasons, including competition with other product candidates; — our collaborators will fail to receive applicable regulatory approvals; — our collaborators will fail to manufacture these products on a large scale in a cost effective manner; — our collaborators will fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries prior to the successful marketing of competing products by others or prior to expiry of the patents protecting such products; — the development, marketing or sale of our product candidates will fail because they may infringe third party intellectual property rights; — the development, marketing or sale of our product candidates will fail because of our inability or failure to protect or maintain our own intellectual property rights; and/or — once a product is launched in the market, there will be little or no demand for it as a result of its exclusion from health funds’ reimbursement schemes or as a result of there being alternative products available for sale. If one or more of these risks or any similar risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We have limited experience in, and limited resources for, the discovery and development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, and if we fail to maintain and/or acquire the appropriate experience, our business may be materially harmed. Our experience in the discovery and development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates is limited. In order to successfully develop and commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we must either access such expertise via collaborations or improve our internal expertise, capabilities and facilities. We may not be able to maintain and/or engage any or all of the experts that we need in order to do so. 9 If we fail to have available at the appropriate times all of the required experience and expertise in the discovery and development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we may be unsuccessful in our discovery and development activities, and as a result our business may be materially harmed. We or our licensees or collaborators may be unable to obtain regulatory approval of any of our therapeutic or diagnostic candidates, and if we or our collaborators fail to obtain such regulatory approval, our business will be materially harmed. The clinical development and marketing of therapeutic and diagnostic products based on our discoveries requires obtaining regulatory approvals to such effect. The process of obtaining regulatory approvals for therapeutic or diagnostic products based on our discoveries in the United States, Israel and in other countries can be lengthy and complex. Changes in legislation and in guidelines and policies made pursuant to such legislation could increase the complexity and the length of the process of obtaining such regulatory approvals. The time required to obtain Food and Drug Administration and other approvals for therapeutic and diagnostic products is unpredictable but may exceed several years following the commencement of clinical trials. Neither we, nor our licensees or collaborators, have yet applied for or received any regulatory approvals for the marketing of any therapeutic or diagnostic products based on our discoveries. It is possible that none of the product candidates we or our licensees or collaborators develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary to begin selling them. Even if and once we or our collaborators or licensees obtain regulatory approval for products based on our discoveries, these products may be subject to continuous regulatory review. Products based on our discoveries that are found to be unsuitable for human consumption, for example due to the causation of unwanted side effects, may result in the withdrawal of such products from the market. Furthermore, because some of the therapeutic products we are intending to develop may represent a newly discovered class of therapeutic products or a new indication or new use for an existing drug, without clear FDA guidelines for development, the FDA may not have established definitive policies, practices or guidelines in relation to these products or uses. The lack of such policies, practices or guidelines may hinder or slow review by the FDA of any regulatory filings that we or our licensees or collaborators may submit. Moreover, the FDA may respond to these submissions by defining requirements we may not have anticipated. Such responses could lead to significant delays in the development of our product candidates. Any delay or failure in obtaining required approvals could have a material adverse effect on our ability to generate revenues from a particular product candidate. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which we may market the product. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the product. We or our licensees or collaborators are also subject to numerous regulatory requirements outside the United States governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement. The regulatory approval process outside the United States includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in these jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States. If we or our collaborators or licensees fail to obtain required regulatory approvals, our collaborators or licensees may be prevented from marketing therapeutic or diagnostic products based on our discoveries. This will in turn reduce our chances of receiving payment from our collaborators and as a result, our business may be materially harmed. We have no experience in conducting and managing human trials. If we fail in the conducting of such trials, our business will be materially harmed. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials which will be necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for our therapeutic or diagnostic product candidates. To the extent that we or our licensees or collaborators choose to rely on third parties for clinical development, our control over these critically important activities will be reduced. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, clinical trials could be delayed and our business materially harmed. 10 The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Numerous entities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere compete with our efforts to discover, validate and partner with licensees and/or collaborators to commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic products or product candidates. Our competitors include pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies, academic and research institutions and governmental and other publicly funded agencies. We face, and expect to continue to face, competition from these entities to the extent that they develop products that have a function similar or identical to the function of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. We also face, and expect to continue to face, competition from entities that seek to develop technologies that enable the discovery of novel therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Many of our competitors benefit from greater market recognition, and have substantially greater financial, technical, human, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. Since we are a small company with limited human resources, we are not able to work with a large number of collaborators in parallel. Our competitors may discover and develop product candidates or market and sell products based on their discoveries, in advance of us or of our collaborators or licensees. They may also obtain patents and other intellectual property rights before us and thereby prevent us from pursuing the development and commercialization of our discoveries. For information about the specific competitors with whom we compete, see “Competition” under “Item 4. Information on the Company.” If we are unable to compete successfully against existing or potential competitors, our financial results and business may be materially harmed. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. We depend significantly on collaborators and licensees for the development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, and if we are unable to maintain our existing agreements or to enter into additional agreements with collaborators and licensees in the future, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates depends on the formation of collaborations or licensing relationships with third parties that have complementary capabilities. We depend significantly on our collaborators and licensees to carry out and/or finance product development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Potential collaborators and licensees include pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies and academic institutions To date, we have granted a small number of licenses and entered into collaborations covering development and commercialization rights with respect to certain of our product candidates. As of December 31, 2008, we had entered into eleven such agreements for a multiple number of our product candidates. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will result in the successful development or commercialization of any products based on our discoveries. Further, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in identifying suitable collaborators or licensees or entering into any other agreements with collaborators or licensees for the development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. If we are unable to identify suitable collaborators or licensees or enter into new collaborations or license agreements, our business will likely be materially harmed. We may not be able to find collaborators or licensees that will agree to license our discoveries at an early stage, and if we do not find these collaborators or licensees, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates is based on our discovery and early stage validation and in some cases, pre-clinical development of those product candidates. We consider early stage development of diagnostic product candidates to be a stage at which their existence is validated. At this stage we may demonstrate that the product candidate is differentially expressed in different physiological conditions, but in any case with no clinical proof. We consider early stage development of therapeutic product candidate to be a stage at which we show biological activity of that candidate in animal models. We either carry out such early stage validation work ourselves or we engage third parties to provide such validation work but we ordinarily seek to rely on our collaborators and licensees to carry out further product development. 11 Pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies may be reluctant or refuse to in-license our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates at these early stages of discovery or validation. One potential barrier to our success in obtaining collaborators and licensees is the existence of skepticism in the industry about the value of in silico predictive modeling in life science discovery due to largely unsuccessful past attempts by others. Even if we are successful in commercializing our product candidates at an early stage of development, our licensees may propose terms that we may not consider commercially desirable and the consideration that we may receive for each individual product may be relatively low. The consideration that we would expect to receive for commercializing our products candidates increases commensurately with the number of such products commercialized and the stage of development that we attain for them. If we are unable to out-license our discoveries at an early stage, we may need to validate and develop our discoveries ourselves until the candidates attain a more mature stage of development. Such development activities may require us to expend substantial additional financial and other resources. If we are unable to raise or spend these additional resources, we may have to curtail or cease our discovery and development activities, and as a result our business will likely be materially harmed. Our dependence on licensing and collaboration agreements with third parties presents a number of risks, and if one or more of these risks materialize, our business may be materially harmed. The risks that we face in connection with our existing collaborations, licenses and other business alliances as well as those that we may enter into the future include, among other things, the following: — we may be unable to comply or fully comply with our obligations under license or collaboration agreements into which we enter, and as a result, we may not generate royalties or milestone payments from such agreements, and our ability to enter into additional agreements may be harmed; — our collaborators may have significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of the planned activities and the manner in which this will be done; — we may not be able to control our collaborators’ or licensees’ willingness to pursue development of our product candidates, or the amount of resources that our collaborators will devote to the collaboration; — changes in a collaborator's or a licensee's business strategy may negatively affect its willingness or ability to complete its obligations under its arrangement with us; — ownership of the intellectual property generated under our collaborations may be disputed; — our ownership of rights in any intellectual property or products that may result from our collaborations may depend on additional investment of money that we may not be able nor willing to make; — prospective collaborators may pursue alternative products or technologies, by internally developing them or by preferring those of our competitors; — disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in, or termination of, the collaboration; and — our collaborators may fail to develop or commercialize successfully any products based on product candidates to which they have obtained rights from us. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Factors Related to our Operations The licensing cycle for our commercial offerings is complex and lengthy and as a result, we may expend substantial funds and management resources with no assurance of success. We are required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each licensee and collaborator and which suit each licensee’s or collaborator’s specific discovery, development and business strategies. The accommodation of these requirements mandates a thorough consideration of both the scientific and business aspects of each transaction. As a result, the process of preparing and negotiating our licensing and other agreements is complex, and may take 12 months or longer. These business development and related commercial activities require the input and substantial time and efforts of our key management personnel. 12 As a result we believe that we will need to continue to expend substantial funds and substantial management time and effort into these business development activities with no assurance of successfully entering into agreements with potential collaborators and licensees. We may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or sufficiently qualified employees, in which case our business may be harmed. Our business is highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. While members of our senior management and other key personnel have entered into employment or consulting agreements and non-competition and non-disclosure agreements, we cannot assure you that these key personnel and others will not leave us or compete with us, which could harm our business activities and operations. Within our geographic location, it is difficult to find suitable and highly qualified personnel in certain aspects of our industry. Furthermore, we do not carry key person life insurance on any member of our senior management. In December 2008, following a restructuring intended to reduce our costs and cash burn, the Company reduced its headcount to 57, from 72 as of December 31, 2007. While we believe that this headcount reduction will not impact any of the Company’s discovery capabilities or its ability to develop new platforms, we cannot be certain of this and such reduction may have a material adverse effect on our employee retention ability. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to retain our key personnel, or to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Revenues that we may generate from commercialization of our technologies or discoveries may be reduced because of obligations to pay back Israeli governmental grants or other grants that we receive. The development of some of our technologies and of the discoveries that we make have been and may in the future be partially funded by governmental grants that we received or will receive from the Israel-U.S. Bi-national Industrial Research and Development Foundation and the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. According to Israeli law, certain restrictions and obligations may be imposed on us in relation to the development and commercialization of discoveries that are financed by these grants. These obligations and restrictions may be imposed if we were to seek to manufacture the technologies or the discoveries outside of Israel or transfer certain of our know-how within or outside of Israel. We believe that these obligations and restrictions do not apply to us for a number of reasons, including our strategy to license the candidates discovered using our platform technology and not to transfer the know-how subsisting in our platform technologies and discovery platforms. We also believe that these restrictions do not apply to the sale or to the export of product candidates that we develop using or based on our Office of the Chief Scientist-funded platform technologies or discoveries. Nevertheless, if the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israel Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor adopts a view contrary to our own or if restrictive statutory changes are legislated in the future, our flexibility in commercializing some of our technologies or discoveries may be reduced. We may be unable to safeguard the integrity, security and confidentiality of our data or third parties’ data, and if we are unable to do so, our business may be harmed. We rely heavily on the use and manipulation of large amounts of data and on the secure and continuous use of our internal computers, communication networks and software and hardware systems. We have implemented and maintain physical and software security measures to preserve and protect our computers, communication, and hardware and software systems as well as our data and third parties’ data. However, these methods may not protect us against fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins or similar events. In addition, these measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access, use or publication of such proprietary data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate or destroy proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. A party who has access to our proprietary data could misappropriate such data, make unauthorized use of or unintentionally destroy all or part of such proprietary data. In addition, a party, including an employee, who obtains unauthorized access to our proprietary data or breaches a confidentiality agreement with us could publish or transfer large portions or all of our proprietary data. Such publication of proprietary data could materially harm our intellectual property position, thereby seriously harming our financial condition. These security breaches, if significant, could harm our operations and even cause our business to cease. 13 We may be subject to claims related to hazardous chemicals and biological materials that we use, and these claims may harm our business. Our research and development activities in some cases may involve the controlled use of biological and chemical materials, a small amount of which could be hazardous. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge of any of these materials. If hazardous biological or chemical materials in our possession were to be improperly used, this could result in harm to persons or property and we could be subject to both civil damages and criminal penalties. In such event, our liability may exceed our insurance coverage. Factors Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our non-patented proprietary data, technologies or discoveries, and this may materially harm our business. We rely heavily on our proprietary know-how and trade secrets that we develop and that are not protectable or protected by patents. The protective measures that we employ may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and know-how. Our business collaborators, licensees, employees, advisers and consultants may disclose our proprietary know-how or trade secrets in violation of their obligations to us. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in our proprietary know-how or trade secrets against such unauthorized disclosure and any consequent unauthorized publication. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, competitors may be able to develop technologies and resulting discoveries and inventions that are the same or similar to our own discoveries and inventions. This could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our inventions and if we fail to do so, our business will likely be materially harmed. The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents that cover our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. We have applied for patents covering our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates as well as aspects of some of our technologies. We have a total of 12 issued patents, of which 11 are U.S. patents and one is an Australian patent. We also have 137 pending patent applications which include 48 patent applications that have been filed in the United States (four of which have, to date, been allowed for issuance) and seven applications that have been filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty for which we have not yet designated the countries of filing. We plan to continue to apply for patents as we deem appropriate, but we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be accepted, or that they will be accepted to the extent that we seek. The process of obtaining patents for inventions that cover our products is uncertain for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: — the patenting of our inventions involves complex legal issues, many of which have not yet been settled; — legislative and judicial changes, or changes in the examination guidelines of governmental patent offices may negatively affect our ability to obtain gene-based patents; — in view of the finite number of human genes, we face intense competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies who have already sought patent protection relating to gene-based discoveries that we may intend to develop and commercialize; — publication of large amounts of genomic data by non-commercial and commercial entities may hinder our ability to obtain sufficiently broad patent claims for our inventions; — even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, such protection may not be sufficient to prevent third parties from using our patented inventions; and — even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, our patents could be partially or wholly invalidated, including by our competitors. If we do not succeed in obtaining patent protection for our inventions to the fullest extent for which we seek protection, our business and financial results will likely be materially harmed. 14 The existence of third party intellectual property rights may prevent us from developing our discoveries or require us to expend financial and other resources to be able to continue to do so. In selecting a therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate for development, we take into account, among other considerations, the existence of third party intellectual property rights that may hinder our right to develop and commercialize that product candidate. The human genomic pool is finite. To our knowledge, third parties, including our competitors, have been filing wide patent applications covering an increasing portion of the human genomic pool and the proteins expressed therefrom. As a result of the existence of such third party intellectual property rights, we have been and may be required further to: — forgo the research, development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products candidates that we discover, notwithstanding their promising scientific and commercial merits; or — invest substantial management and financial resources to either challenge or in-license such third party intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in doing so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not always have available to us, in a timely manner, information of the existence of third party intellectual property rights related to our own discoveries. The content of U.S. and other patent applications remain unavailable to the public for a period of approximately 18 months from their filing date. In some instances, the content of U.S. patent applications remain unavailable to the public until the patents are issued. As a result, we can never be certain that development projects that we commence will be free of third party intellectual property rights. If we become aware of the existence of third party intellectual property rights only after we have commenced a particular development project, we may have to forgo such project after having invested in it substantial resources. We may infringe third party rights and may become involved in litigation, which may materially harm our business. If a third party accuses us of infringing its intellectual property rights or if a third party commences litigation against us for the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, we may incur significant costs in defending such action, whether or not we ultimately prevail. Typically, patent litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is expensive and prolonged. Costs that we incur in defending third party infringement actions would also include diversion of management’s and technical personnel’s time, the effect of which may be even more adverse then in the past due to the recent reduction in force. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could prevent us or our collaborators and licensees from further developing our discoveries or commercializing our products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from the prevailing third party. If we are not able to obtain these licenses at a reasonable cost, if at all, we could encounter delays in product introductions and loss of substantial resources while we attempt to develop alternative products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any of these licenses could prevent us or our partners from commercializing available products and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Factors Related to our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents may be required to pay additional U.S. federal income taxes. There is a risk that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return to the U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of our shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will generally be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of our assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. Based on our income, assets, activities, market capitalization and other considerations, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2008. However there are no assurances that the Unites States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge this conclusion. Furthermore, if the current price of our ordinary shares does not increase during 2009, there is a risk that we could be classified as a PFIC for 2009. For a discussion of the rules relating to PFICs and related tax consequences, please see “Taxation, United States Federal Income Tax Considerations” under “Item 10. Additional Information”. 15 We have a very limited operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model, upon which to base an investment decision or upon which to predict our revenues. Our business model depends on our ability to generate revenues primarily in the form of fees, milestones, and revenue sharing payments from the licensing and commercialization of current and future product candidate discoveries, and our ability to do so remains untested. To date we have received only minimal revenues from the licensing of our initial product candidates, recognizing $180,000 of such revenue in 2007 and $40,000 of such revenue in 2008. We cannot be certain that this business model will ever generate a stable or significant revenue stream. Our operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model provides an extremely limited basis for you to assess our ability to generate significant fee, milestone, and revenue sharing revenues from the licensing and commercialization of our product candidate discoveries, or from “discovery on demand” collaborations, and therefore on the advisability of investing in our securities. Our share price and trading volume have been volatile and may be volatile in the future and this could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit and could limit our ability to successfully raise funds. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price on the Nasdaq Global Market has traded at a low of $0.34 to a high of $3.40 and trading volume has been very volatile. The volatile price of our stock and the changing trading volume may make it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our ordinary shares including: — negative global macroeconomic developments — successfully reaching certain developmental milestones; — failure to raise capital on the capital markets; — achievement or rejection of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; — announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; — developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; — developments concerning our existing or new collaborations; — regulatory developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; — economic or other crises and other external factors; — delay or failure by us or our partners in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of these trials; — period to period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; — changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; — our need and ability to raise additional funds; — our inability to disclose the commercial terms of, or progress under, our collaborations; — our inability to show and accurately predict revenues; and — sales of our ordinary shares. We are not and will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. In addition, the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel may also be affected by the changing security situation in the Middle East and particularly in Israel. As a result, these companies may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such failure and the volatility of the securities market in general, and our share price in particular, may affect our ability to raise additional financing in the future. Market and industry fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. 16 Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or affect a potential acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires tender offers for acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. The provisions of Israeli law may delay or prevent an acquisition, or make it less desirable to a potential acquirer, even if such an acquisition would be considered beneficial by a majority of our shareholders, and therefore depress the price of our shares. For information about these limitations, see “Anti-Takeover Provisions under Israeli Law” Under “Item 10. Additional Information.” Furthermore, Israeli tax considerations may make potential transactions undesirable to us or to some of our shareholders. Our ordinary shares may be delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, and as a result the liquidity and price of our ordinary shares would likely decline. Our ordinary shares are currently listed on the Nasdaq Global Market. Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements include that (i) the minimum bid price of a listed security must be at least $1 and (ii) listed companies maintain, among other things, a minimum of $10.0 million in shareholders’ equity, as reported on the issuer’s balance sheet. Our ordinary shares have traded below $1 per share since November 4, 2008. Our shareholders’ equity was $10.0 million as of December 31, 2008, and we expect our shareholders’ equity to decline for the next reporting period. The delisting of our ordinary shares would likely have an adverse impact on the liquidity of our ordinary shares and, as a result, the market price for our ordinary shares would likely become more volatile and could decline significantly. Additionally, if we were delisted from the Nasdaq Global Market, the benefits of dual-listing reporting requirements would no longer be relevant and we would be required to make all our disclosures pursuant to Israeli law and Tel Aviv stock exchange rules and regulations. Alternatively, we might choose to or be required to delist from the Tel Aviv stock exchange as well. Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in the Middle East and in Israel may harm our operations. Our principal offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest, military conflicts and terrorist actions. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel have, in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. We cannot give you any assurance that this will continue to be the case. Additionally, if there were to be emergency conditions, some of our key employees may be called to active army duty for extended periods of time and this could adversely affect our operations. Our insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by devaluation of the Dollar against the New Israeli Shekel. We hold most of our cash, cash equivalents deposits and marketable securities in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses and administrative expenses, in New Israeli Shekels. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the U.S. dollar will be devalued against the New Israeli Shekel. Depreciation of the US dollar could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. The Company entered into derivative instrument arrangements to hedge a portion of its anticipated New Israeli Shekel (“NIS”) payroll and certain operation expenses. For more information, see Note 2q of our 2008 consolidated financial statements. We may not continue to be entitled to certain tax benefits. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs. 17 The tax benefits are a function of the “Approved Enterprise” status of our existing facilities in Israel. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects; Operating Results; Governmental Economic, Fiscal, Monetary or Political Policies that Materially Affected or Could Materially Affect our Operations”. To date we have not received any such tax benefits because we have not yet generated any taxable income. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. If we cease to become entitled to these tax benefits, we may be required to pay increased taxes on the taxable income that we may generate in the future. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, or our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. Service of process upon us, since we are incorporated in Israel, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, almost all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and almost all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States. 