Risk Factors” section of Item 3 of this annual report. Risks Related to our Business and Financing Needs We incurred net losses since the founding of the Company through 2008 and in 2011 and have a significant accumulated deficit and may incur losses again in the future. Although we had net income of $1.5 million in 2013, $0.9 million in 2012, $0.7 million in 2010 and $0.5 million in 2009, we had incurred a substantial net losses prior to 2009 and again incurred a net loss in 2011, and may not maintain our profitability in 2014 or in future years. As of December 31, 2013, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $118.3 million. In order to achieve and maintain profitability we will need to increase our revenues while containing or reducing our costs. However, a substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. Therefore, if our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. While our revenues in 2008 were $10.6 million, we incurred net losses of $2.1 million during that year. While we achieved profitability in 2009 and 2010, our revenues in those years decreased to $9.8 million and $10.3 million, respectively, compared to 2008. Furthermore, our revenues in 2011 further decreased to $9.7 million compared to 2010, and we incurred a loss of $0.2 million, after two consecutive profitable years. We cannot assure you that we can continue the increase in our revenues that we experienced in 2012 and 2013, or, even if we are able to increase our revenues, that we will be able to maintain our profitability on a consistent basis. Our operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future, thereby making it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons of such results, which may contribute to volatility in the market price for our Ordinary Shares and may adversely impact the price of our Ordinary Shares. Our revenues, gross profits and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The following events or factors may cause fluctuations in our operating results and/or cause our share price to decline: • changes in global economic conditions in general, and conditions in our industry and target markets in particular; • changes in demand or timing of orders, especially large orders, for our products and services; • the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; • timing of product releases; • the dollar value of, and the timing of, our contracts; • delays in completion of implementation projects with customers; • the mix of revenue generated by software licenses and professional services; • price and product competition; • changes in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; • technological changes; • our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; 4 Table of Contents • reductions in the level of our cash balances and our ability to raise cash; • consolidation of our customers; • fluctuations in the economic factors impacting the Israeli prime interest rate (which is the benchmark rates used to determine the interest expenses incurred by us on our bank borrowings under our bank arrangements); • the geographic composition of our revenues; • integration and assimilation of management, employees and product lines of acquired companies; • effectiveness of our customer support, whether provided by our resellers or directly by us; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, primarily the US dollar against the Israeli shekel. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as indicative of our future performance. Also, it is possible that our results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our Ordinary Shares is likely to decrease. We may not be able to meet or refinance our debt payment obligations in the future. Our ability to meet our payment obligations under our debt liabilities, will depend on whether we can successfully implement our strategy, as well as on financial, competitive, and other factors, including some factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash from operations to meet principal and interest payments on our debt or to repay our debt obligations in full at their maturity dates, we may have to refinance all or part of our indebtedness. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness, will depend upon, among other things: our financial condition at the time; restrictions in agreements governing our debt; and, other factors, including market conditions. We cannot ensure you that any such refinancing would be possible on terms that we could accept, or that we could obtain additional financing at all. If refinancing will not be possible or if additional financing will not be available, that would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all. During each of the six years in the period ended December 31, 2013, we had positive cash flow from operations. However, prior to 2008, we had negative cash flow from operations for each of the several preceding years. Over the past five years, we have raised only approximately $0.1 million in equity financings. However, we expect that we may need additional financing to fund our business operations. Any additional financing that is structured as a secured debt financing may require the consent of our main current creditors, Bank Hapoalim and Bank Otsar Ha-Hayal. Our ability to raise additional financing from third parties may be impacted by the limited liquidity of our Ordinary Shares in the OTCQB marketplace of OTC Markets Group. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In the event that the market price of our Ordinary Shares does not appreciate, or if it declines, we may not be able to consummate a private equity financing transaction to raise additional capital. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our day to day operations, expand our research and development, and marketing and sales, efforts, pursue potential acquisitions, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our website content, features, services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be severely constrained. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced, and any newly issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. We will need sufficient funds to re-pay our loans from Bank Otsar Ha-Hayal and our potential draws on our line of credit from Mercantile Discount Bank, all of which may be subject to immediate repayment if we do not meet our repayment schedule or meet specified conditions. We have received an aggregate of NIS 3.1 million (approximately $0.89 million, based on the dollar-shekel exchange rate reported by the Bank of Israel as of December 31, 2013) of bank financing that is guaranteed by the Israeli government based on an approval from Israel’s State Guaranteed Medium Business Assistance Fund, or the Fund, and with respect to which Samuel HaCohen, the Company’s Chairman of the board of directors, has provided a personal guarantee. The financing was provided to us in four increments (NIS 750,000 in July 2011, NIS 1,350,000 in September 2011, NIS 500,000 in October 2012 and NIS 500,000 in January 2013) by the Fund’s participating bank, Bank Otsar Ha-Hayal. The loans bear interest annually at the Israeli prime rate, plus 3.5%, which is payable on a monthly basis, beginning one month following the receipt of the loans. The principal portions of the NIS 750,000 and the NIS 1,350,000 loans are payable in 49 equal monthly payments of NIS 18,080 and NIS 32,545, respectively (each of which includes interest as well), beginning on August 6, 2012 and September 8, 2012, respectively. The principal portions of each of the NIS 500,000 loans are payable in 60 equal monthly payments of NIS 9,960 and 9,842, respectively (each of which includes interest as well), beginning one month following the receipt of the loans. We are in the process of closing a line of credit of 5 Table of Contents approximately NIS 2.6 million with Mercantile Discount Bank to replace our credit lines with Bank Hapoalim and Bank Leumi. We expect that the credit line will be apportioned as follows, subject to the delivery of final, signed documentation: NIS 1.3 million will serve as revolving credit lines, in the aggregate, consisting of 1.1 million denominated in U.S. dollars and NIS 0.2 million denominated in shekels; NIS 1 million will serve as an additional credit against our invoices; and NIS 0.3 million will serve as a guarantee to our Israeli landlord. The overall line of credit will be secured by (i) a personal guarantee of Samuel HaCohen, our Chairman of the Board of Directors, and a guarantee of Jerusalem Hitech Founders Ltd,; (ii) a restricted deposit of NIS 1.0 million; and (iii) a floating charge on all of our assets, which will replace the existing floating charge in favor of Bank Hapoalim. Our bank covenants, as part of our overall financing arrangement, require that on an annual basis our shareholders’ equity shall be at least the greater of (a) 20% of our total assets, or (b) $2.2 million. In addition, we have agreed to pay Mercantile Discount Bank a fee equal to 150,000 times the amount by which our closing share price exceeds $3.30 per share as of any day within the ten trading days preceding a day chosen by the bank within three years following June 12, 2014, subject to a $150,000 maximum fee. The bank’s right to payment of this fee terminates upon the occurrence of a merger involving, or an acquisition of, our company. For more information, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Cash—Bank Financing” We may need to obtain funding from third parties to meet the payment obligations under the above-described loan arrangements in a timely manner, and there is no assurance that Bank Otsar Ha-Hayal or Mercantile Discount Bank will grant us an extension of these payment dates (in the case of Mercantile Discount Bank, to the extent that we draw on the credit line) in the future, if requested. There can be no assurance that we will meet our covenants to Mercantile Discount Bank or that Mercantile Discount Bank will waive non-compliance with any such covenants in the event that we do not meet them. Our ability to raise capital via convertible debt or equity financing arrangements with third parties for the re-payment of our bank loans may be impacted by the limited liquidity of our Ordinary Shares on the OTCQB. If we fail to timely effect any repayment of these loans, the relevant bank may demand immediate repayment of the outstanding debts and all interest thereon and would be entitled to exercise any remedies available to it. That would have a material adverse effect on our business. For more information, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Cash—Bank Financing” and “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects— Liquidity and Capital Resources—Sources of Cash— Government Guaranteed Bank Financing.” We substantially reduced the number of our employees several years ago, and, as a result, may be unable to meet certain revenue objectives and sustain profitability. Several years ago we determined that we had an excess of resources resulting from past acquisitions and took action to reduce our headcount. These actions resulted in a reduction of our headcount from 148 in 2005 to 88 at the end of December 2007. During 2008, we further reduced our headcount to 67 employees. In December 2011, we further reduced our headcount to 60 employees as a result of the sale of our Australian subsidiary, but we increased our headcount since, such that as of March 31, 2014 it consists of 67 employees. Although we believe that we currently have sufficient resources available to meet and support our current obligations in relation to our current staff, we may not be able to maintain this headcount. If we are forced to reduce headcount further, our ability to meet our growth goals, and to sustain and enhance our business and operations, may be adversely impacted. We may need to expand our sales, marketing, research and development and professional services organizations but may lack the resources to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, which may hinder our ability to grow and meet customer demands. While we conducted reductions in the number of our employees as described above, due to operational needs, we may need to reverse course and expand our headcount beyond our current staff in order to increase market awareness and sales of our products. We may also need to increase our quality assurance, technical and customer support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers. Generally, the training period for these new positions can take a significant amount of time before these personnel can provide support to our customers. In addition, there is competition for qualified personnel (especially senior employees). Competition for qualified professional employees may lead to increased labor and personnel costs. If we need to hire additional employees and are unable to attract, train, motivate and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives, and our business could be harmed. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel that we need. In a number of our key markets and locations, particularly Israel and the US, the competition for senior employees is very intense, and the process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. Even in times of economic downturn, competition for these employees is high, because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our research and development and sales objectives. 6 Table of Contents Historically, our revenues have been concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose a key customer. A significant portion of our revenues each year has been derived from large orders from a small number of customers which are not necessarily the same customers each year. In 2010, four customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 32% of our total revenues. In 2011, two customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 13% of our total revenues. In 2012, four customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 32% of our total revenues. In 2013, four customers each accounted for approximately 6% or more of our revenues, and such revenues represented, in the aggregate, 33% of our total revenues. We do not expect that the four customers accounting for 33% of our revenues during 2013 will generate a substantial percentage of our revenues in the future. However, we do expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers. We cannot assure you that we will continue to attract such substantial customers that will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, when coupled with the loss of key customers from the previous year or a significant reduction in sales to a key customer from the previous year, would cause our revenues to significantly decrease and make it significantly more difficult for us to be profitable. Our sales cycle is variable and often long and involves investment of significant resources on our part, but may never result in actual sales and we may therefore suffer additional losses. Our sales cycle from our initial contact with a potential customer to the signing of a license and related agreements has historically been lengthy and variable. We generally must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources, causing us to incur most of our product development and selling and marketing expenses in advance of a potential sale. In addition, a number of companies decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we also run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that results in a competitor obtaining the desired contract from the customer or in a decision by a customer not to proceed. The purchasing decisions of our customers are subject to the uncertainties and delays of the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. If our sales cycles lengthen further, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more widely than in the past. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and operating results. 7 Table of Contents If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business may be adversely affected. The market for mobile workforce management software solutions is evolving. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our products. Changes in technologies, industry standards, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. We have limited development resources to expend on product development. Therefore, we may be unable to timely develop products that meet the market’s future needs. If we were to experience a significant increase in the number of customers, or were to decide to significantly increase our development of new product offerings, or both, we would need to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. We may be adversely impacted if are unable to adjust our revenue model in response to a market trend that involves decreased initial investments by customers in products such as ours and shift to cloud-based software-as-a-service. One trend that our target markets are undergoing is a decrease in the average size of initial investments by customers in mobile solutions for workforces. In some of our markets this trend may take longer than in others. The pattern of smaller initial deal size coincides with the expected shift from traditional on-premises deployment of our products to the cloud-based software-as-a-service, or SaaS, model. This shift has been occurring faster than we expected. Although this shift has long-term benefits in the form of a more stable future revenue stream for us, the tendency of customers to shift to the SaaS model in order to lower up-front investment does impact our short term growth rate. SaaS, combined with general macro-economic concerns, has moderated buyers’ tolerance for risk versus price, thereby encouraging a smaller initial deployment size than we have seen in the past. Further, as customers become more acquainted with cloud-based SaaS, there is a greater expectation for low initial financial investment. In order to remain competitive and satisfy low initial customer outlay, it may require us to provide a low-cost implementation which could impact our revenues. During the past few years, we have experienced fluctuation in the mix of our revenues from software licenses and services. If either or both of these trends continue, it may adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Our revenues from the sale of software licenses have been variable over the past three years, decreasing from approximately $1.55 million in 2011 to $1.15 million in 2012, and then increasing to approximately $1.7 million in 2013. Our revenues from services increased during this same three year period, from approximately $8.1 million in 2011 to approximately $9.6 million in 2012 and approximately $9.9 million in 2013. Both of these trends have had a direct impact on our gross margins and profitability. Our gross margins from software licenses is substantially higher than our gross margin from services, since our cost of services, which includes expenses of salaries and related benefits of the employees engaged in providing the services, is substantially higher than our cost of software licenses. However, a decline in the volume of services revenues that we generate (regardless of such services’ relative lesser profitability) may in any case have an adverse direct impact on our overall gross margins and profitability if not accompanied by a countervailing increase in the amount of revenue from software licenses. If software license revenues decline, or if services revenues decline and are not accompanied by a countervailing increase in software license revenues, our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected. If we fail to improve our margins on services revenues in the future, our results of operations could suffer. Our margins on services revenues have been fairly consistent in the two years period prior to 2013. In both 2012 and 2011, our margins on services revenues were 57%, whereas in 2013 our margins increased to 66%. In order to maintain or continue to improve our margins on services revenues, we will need to maintain or increase the efficiency and utilization of our services personnel, consistently control our costs, and increase the volume of our services revenues. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve our services margins, or that they will not decline in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues may depend on our ability to make sales through third parties. We are dependent, in part, upon resellers and channel partners to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. We expect this dependence to continue and potentially increase due to our limited internal sales and marketing resources in existing markets and due to our desire to penetrate new vertical markets for our products in North America and expand into new geographic markets for our products outside of North America. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many resellers and channel partners, even if we manage to maintain and expand our relationship with such resellers and channel partners, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from them so as to meet all of our customers’ needs. If anticipated orders from these resellers and channel partners fail to materialize, or if our current business agreements with them are terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. 8 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with third party providers of implementation and consulting services, we may be unable to increase our revenues. To focus more effectively on our core business of developing and licensing software solutions, we need to establish and maintain additional relationships with third parties that can provide implementation and consulting services to our customers. Third-party implementation and consulting firms can also be influential in the choice of mobile workforce management solutions by new customers. If we cannot establish and maintain effective, long-term relationships with implementation and consulting providers, or if these providers do not meet the needs or expectations of our customers, we may be unable to increase our revenues and our business could be seriously harmed. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many third-party implementation providers, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from the third-party providers to meet all of our customers’ needs, even if we establish relationships with these third parties. If sufficient resources are unavailable, we will be required to provide these services internally, which could limit our ability to expand our base of customers. Even if we succeed at developing strong relationships with third-party implementation and consulting providers, we will still be subject to significant risk due to the fact that we cannot control the level and quality of service provided by these third parties. Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market’s acceptance of our products and technology. Our software products are complex and contain undetected defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments in several geographic markets into which our products are deployed. Despite testing conducted by us and our customers, we have in the past shipped product releases with some defects, some customers have cited possible defects, and we have otherwise discovered other defects in our products after their commercial shipment. Our products are frequently more critical to our customers’ operations compared to some other software solutions used by such customers, and, as a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product defects relating to our products. Defects may be found in current or future products and versions after the start of commercial shipment. This could result in: • a delay or failure of our products to achieve market acceptance; • adverse customer reactions; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; • diversion of resources; and • increased service and maintenance costs. Defects could also subject us to legal claims. Although our license agreements contain limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not be sufficient to protect us against these legal claims. The sale and support of our products, as well as our professional services, may also expose us to product liability claims. Greater market acceptance of our competitors’ products or decisions by potential or actual customers to develop their own service management solutions could result in reduced revenues and reduced gross margins. The markets for mobile workforce management applications and the automation of field service delivery are highly competitive, yet fragmented and stratified, although a number of our traditional competitors have been acquired by larger companies. We compete for the business of global or nationwide organizations that seek to support complex and sophisticated products across a variety of industries. We compete against companies such as, but not limited to, Service Power Technologies, CGI, Ventyx (acquired in 2010 by ABB Ltd.), ClickSoftware Ltd, TOA Technologies and ServiceMax. Our primary competitors in commercial and other general field service markets include enterprise application solution providers such as Astea International Inc. and Metrix LLC (acquired by IFS in 2012), along with traditional ERP and CRM software application vendors such as Oracle Corporation and SAP A.G. Many of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages over us. These advantages may include greater technical and financial resources, more developed marketing and service organizations, greater expertise, and broader customer bases and name recognition than us. Our competitors may also be in a better position to devote significant resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, and to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to successfully market their products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidations in the industry. To the extent that we develop new products, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. We cannot assure you that competition will not result in price reductions for our products and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, a number of potential customers have the ability to develop, in conjunction with systems integrators, software solutions internally, thereby eliminating the need for suppliers like us. This could result in reduced revenues or lost business for us. 9 Table of Contents We rely upon software from third parties. If we cannot continue using that software, we would have to spend additional capital to redesign our existing software and may not be able to compete in our markets. We may also be exposed to claims by the parties that license that software to us due to over-deployment of the software by our customers. We utilize third-party software products to enhance the functionality of our products. Our business would be disrupted if functional versions of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our software to function with alternate third-party software or develop these components ourselves. If functional versions of third-party software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings, and the commercial release of our products could be delayed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reliance upon third-party software may also expose us to claims by the providers of the software that the software is being over-deployed by our customers. Marketing and distributing our products outside of North America and other international operations may require us to incur increased expenses and may increase our exposure to risks with respect to which we may not be able to obtain adequate protection. We market and sell our products and services in North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and South America. We received 10% of our total revenue in 2011, 16% of our total revenue in 2012 and 17% of our total revenue in 2013 from sales to customers located outside of North America. In addition to our operations in the United States, we have marketing and support facilities and offices in Israel. These operations require, and the expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets will require, significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, since our financial results are reported in dollars, decreases in the rate of exchange of non-dollar currencies in which we make sales relative to the dollar will decrease the dollar-based reported value of those sales. To the extent that decreases in exchange rates are not offset by a reduction in our costs, they may materially adversely affect our results of operations. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency-denominated account receivables and expense risks. We are also subject to a number of risks customary for international operations that are described below in the risk factor titled, “Our business may become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations.” We depend on key personnel. The loss of any key personnel could affect our ability to compete, and our ability to attract additional key personnel may also be impaired as a result. Our future success depends on the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel. All of our key management and technical personnel have expertise. The loss of any of these individuals could harm our business significantly. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, which generally require notification prior to departure, although relationships with these officers and key employees are at will. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business or financial strategy and compete successfully in the marketplace. Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. In the past, we have acquired (as described below in “Item 4—Information on the Company”), and in the future, we may further acquire or make investments in other complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise, and we may engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot provide assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or, if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will have sufficient resources to complete such acquisitions or investments, will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or will be able to complete such acquisitions or investments at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, customers, technology or products and service offerings into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, consume cash resources, and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. We may also incur impairment charges for goodwill and other assets acquired related to acquired companies. Our business may become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. Our facilities are located in the United States and Israel, This geographic dispersion consumes significant management resources that may place us at a disadvantage compared to our locally based competitors. In addition, our international operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • differing technology standards and language requirements; • changing product and service requirements in response to the formation of economic and marketing unions, including the European Economic Union; 10 Table of Contents • economic or political changes in international markets; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, particularly in southeast Asia; • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer sales cycles; • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • greater dependency on partners; • time zone and cultural differences; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivables and longer collection cycles; and • political and economic instability. We expect international revenues to increase as a percentage of total revenues (as was the case in 2013 relative to 2012 and 2011), and we believe that we must continue to expand our international sales and professional services activities in order to be successful. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to expand our international sales management and professional services organizations either through a direct presence in local markets or through channel partners. If we fail to manage our geographically dispersed organization, we may fail to execute our business plan, and our revenues may decline. Risks Related to our Intellectual Property Our channel and strategic partner strategy may expose us to additional risks relating to intellectual property infringement. Our increased reliance on our channel and strategic partners may increase the likelihood of the infringement of our intellectual property. As we deepen our ties with our channel and strategic partners, the number of people who are exposed to, and interact with, our software and other intellectual property will increase. Despite our best efforts to protect our intellectual property, our channel or strategic partners, or their employees or customers, may copy some portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use information and technology that we regard as proprietary. Our channel or strategic partners might also improperly incorporate portions of our technology into their own products or otherwise exceed the authorized scope of their licenses to our technology. If we are unable to successfully detect and prevent infringement and/or to enforce our rights to our technology, our revenues may be negatively impacted and we may lose competitive position in the market. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Other than our trademarks, most of our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States, such as in certain countries in Southeast Asia. In connection with some of our licensing agreements, we have placed, and in the future may place, our software in escrow. The software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers and resellers and this may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We believe that many industry participants have filed or intend to file patent and trademark applications covering aspects of their technology. We cannot be certain that they will not make a claim of infringement against us based on our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause product shipment and installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. 11 Table of Contents Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and even if available on acceptable terms, shall increase our expenses and may materially affect our results of operations adversely. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Security breaches could compromise sensitive information belonging to us or our customers and could harm our business (including our intellectual property) and reputation. The safeguarding of our information technology infrastructure is important to our business. A cyber-attack that bypasses our information technology (IT) security systems causing an IT security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IT business systems and/or the loss of business information, resulting in adverse business impact. Adverse effects could include: • adversely affected future results of operations due to the theft, destruction, loss, misappropriation or release of our confidential data or our intellectual property; • operational or business delays resulting from the disruption of IT systems and subsequent clean-up and mitigation activities; and • negative publicity resulting in reputation or brand damage with our customers, partners or industry peers. Risks Related to the Ownership of our Ordinary Shares Our Ordinary Shares are quoted on the OTCQB, and previously were quoted on the Pink Sheets, which has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of, and trading market for, our Ordinary Shares. On June 12, 2007 our Ordinary Shares were delisted from the NASDAQ SmallCap Market (now known as the NASDAQ Capital Market) and became eligible for quotation and trading on the Pink Sheets. On December 14, 2007, our Ordinary Shares became eligible for quotation and trading on the OTCBB under the ticker symbol VRYAF. On September 11, 2008, due to our delinquency with respect to the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2007, our Ordinary Shares ceased to be eligible for quotation on the OTCBB and were removed from the OTCBB. Following the removal from the OTCBB, our Ordinary Shares became immediately eligible for quotation and trading on the Pink Sheets. On March 4, 2010, our Ordinary Shares became eligible once again for quotation and trading on the OTCBB, and, beginning in April 2010, with the launch by OTC Markets Group of its new OTCQB marketplace for reporting issuers who are current in their reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, our Ordinary Shares began to be quoted in that marketplace as well. In October 2010, our Ordinary Shares ceased to be quoted on the OTCBB and are currently quoted only on the OTCQB. The limited volume of trading in our Ordinary Shares on the OTCQB has materially impaired, and may continue to materially impair, the ability of our shareholders to buy and sell our Ordinary Shares, and has had, and could continue to have, an adverse effect on the market price and the trading market for our Ordinary Shares. Such factors could also significantly impair our ability to raise capital should we desire to do so in the future or to utilize our Ordinary Shares as consideration in acquisitions. Furthermore, should we once again fail to remain current with our Exchange Act reporting, our Ordinary Shares could be removed from the OTCQB and once again be quoted on the Pink Sheets, which would exacerbate the above-identified problems related to liquidity, market price and trading market for our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The stock market in general experiences extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of our Ordinary Shares fluctuated substantially between $0.44 and $2.74 during 2013 and between $0.45 and $1.08 during 2012, and increased overall from $0.58 on December 31, 2012 to $2.73 on December 31, 2013. The market price of our Ordinary Shares increased during the first four months of 2014, to $3.91 on April 30, 2014, decreased during May 2014 to $2.70, increased during June 2014 to $3.12, and may continue to fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • the limited volume of trading in our Ordinary Shares on the OTCQB; • any anticipated or actual fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • our inability to meet any guidance or forward looking information, if provided; • public announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; • changes in security analysts’ financial estimates for us or other companies; 12 Table of Contents • changes in generally accepted accounting principles that impact how we calculate our financial results; • sales of our Ordinary Shares by existing shareholders; • the limited market for our Ordinary Shares; • the use of our Ordinary Shares for the acquisition of the outstanding shares or assets of other companies; • our need to raise additional capital through private or public debt or equity financings; • changes in political conditions in Israel; and • the current economic uncertainty in the U.S. and globally. • the likelihood that we will consummate the currently anticipated transaction whereby we will be acquired by Verisae, Inc. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of such litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business. We have never paid cash dividends and have no intention to pay cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We have never paid cash dividends on our Ordinary Shares and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We intend to retain earnings, if any, for use in financing our operations and expanding our business, in particular to fund our research and development and sales and marketing activities, which enable us to capitalize on technological changes and new market opportunities. Any future dividend distributions are subject to the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on various factors, including our operating results, future earnings, capital requirements, financial condition, tax impact of dividend distributions on our income, future prospects and any other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. The distribution of dividends also may be limited by Israeli law, which allows the distribution of dividends out of additional paid-in capital (as calculated in accordance with the Companies Law) only upon the permission of the court. You should not rely upon an investment in our Ordinary Shares if you require dividend income from your investment. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or issuances of additional securities could cause the market price for our Ordinary Shares to fall. Since August 4, 2003, which marked the initial point at which we needed to raise additional capital after our initial public offering, the number of shares that we have outstanding has increased substantially. The increase in the number of our outstanding shares has been primarily due to (i) private equity and convertible debt financings which have raised approximately $13.6 million (excluding transaction-related expenses) from 2003 to the present time (see the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” sub-section of Item 5, under the headings “How We Have Financed Our Business” and “Sources of Cash”), (ii) our acquisition of Utility Partners, Inc. in July 2004, which resulted in the issuance of 179,697 Ordinary Shares, and (iii) our acquisition of e-Wise Solutions in June 2005, which resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of 111,156 Ordinary Shares. As of June 23, 2014, we have reserved up to 1,178,000 Ordinary Shares for issuance under our share option plans, under which 36,534 options have been exercised, the restrictions on 807,682 restricted shares have lapsed and the restrictions on 210,000 restricted shares have not lapsed yet as of June 23, 2014. The sale, or availability for sale, of such substantial quantities of our Ordinary Shares may have the effect of further depressing the market price of our stock. In addition, a large number of our Ordinary Shares that were previously subject to resale restrictions are currently eligible or shall soon be eligible for resale into the public market. We may continue to issue equity or convertible securities, and the issuance of such securities could be dilutive to our shareholders. Certain warrants and options, when issued, may have an exercise price set at fair value, and we may therefore be required to reflect appropriate charges to our income in our financial statements. We have provided registration rights in the past to certain shareholders and may continue to do so in the future, which would ease the resale of Ordinary Shares that would otherwise be subject to securities law resale restrictions, thereby potentially contributing to the depression of the market price of our Ordinary Shares. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities will be able to influence matters requiring shareholder approval and they may disapprove actions that you vote to approve. As of June 23, 2014, our executive officers and directors serving as of such date, and entities affiliated with them, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 33.5% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares. There are no Ordinary Shares that may be issued upon exercise of options and warrants or vesting of restricted shares that are exercisable, convertible or that have vested, or that will become exercisable, convertible or will vest, within 60 days of June 23, 2014. Such percentage does not take into account restricted Ordinary Shares that have been granted to executive officers and directors, the restrictions related to which will lapse more than 60 days after June 23, 2014. These shareholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Location in Israel It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Several of our executives, directors, certain research and development employees, and some of the experts upon whom we rely for key services, are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside of the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions instituted in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. We are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, which varies in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel will not have a material adverse effect on us or our business and on our share price. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain and although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2013. In November 2012, when Hamas increased the scope and intensity of its rocket attacks against Israeli civilian targets, Israel commenced a military operation in Gaza in an attempt to prevent the rocket attacks and disrupt the capabilities of the militant organization. Direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority with the ultimate aim of reaching an official “final status settlement” are currently taking place, but it is by no means clear if, and when, they will be finalized. In addition, Israel faces threats from more distant neighbors, in particular, the Islamic Republic of Iran, an ally of Hezbollah and Hamas. Since December 2010, a wave of demonstrations and civil protests has been taking place throughout the Arab states of the Middle East and North Africa, which has so far resulted in regime change in several states, including Egypt, with whom Israel signed a peace treaty in 1979, and the outbreak of civil war in Syria. It is uncertain what impact these changes may have on Israel’s relations with its Arab neighbors, in general, or on our operations in the region, in particular. Were these changes to result in the establishment of new fundamentalist Islamic regimes or governments more hostile to Israel, or, for example, were the new Egyptian regime to abrogate its peace treaty with Israel, this could have serious consequences for the peace and stability in the region, raise additional political, economic and military challenges for Israel and could materially adversely affect our operations. Furthermore, several countries, principally in the Middle East, restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may impose restrictions on doing business with Israel and Israeli companies if hostilities in the region continue or intensify. Such restrictions may seriously limit our ability to sell our products to customers in those countries. Our business insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that this government coverage will be maintained or that such coverage will be adequate or proportional to the actual direct and indirect damage. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our operations may be disrupted by the obligation of our personnel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, under the age of 45 in some cases, are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36-45 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of such ages are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact that these requirements may have on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, neither can we predict the effect on us that may result from any expansion or reduction of these obligations. 14 Table of Contents We may be adversely affected if the shekel appreciates against the dollar or if the rate of devaluation of the shekel against the dollar is exceeded by the rate of inflation in Israel. Most of our revenues are in U.S. dollars or are linked to the U.S. dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related expenses for our Israeli operations, are incurred in shekels. We do not utilize hedging to manage currency risk, and, therefore, are exposed to the risk that the shekel may appreciate relative to the U.S. dollar, or that even if the shekel devaluates in relation to the U.S. dollar, that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed such rate of devaluation or that the timing of such devaluation will lag behind inflation in Israel. Any of such scenarios would result in increased dollar cost of our operations. While the average representative exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS decreased during 2013, to NIS 3.6094 per one dollar for 2013, from NIS 3.8559 per one dollar for 2012, reflecting an appreciation of the shekel relative to the dollar over the course of 2013, thereby increasing the dollar-recorded value of our shekel-incurred expenses, in 2012 the trend had been the opposite with the average representative exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the NIS increasing during 2012, to NIS 3.8559 per one dollar for 2012, from NIS 3.5781 per one dollar for 2011, reflecting a devaluation of the shekel relative to the dollar over the course of 2012. The Israeli consumer price index, which serves as a barometer of Israeli inflation, slightly escalated its rate of increase during 2013, growing at a rate of 1.8% , after growing at the rate of 1.6% in 2012 and in 2.2% in 2011. While these trends caused an adverse impact of shekel-dollar currency exchange rates and Israeli inflation on our results of operations in 2013, this trend could be reversed in future years. NIS-linked balance sheet items may also create foreign exchange gains or losses, depending upon the relative dollar values of the NIS at the beginning and end of the reporting period, thereby affecting our net income and earnings per share. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of appreciation or devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Israeli courts have in the past required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. The government grants that we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. We have received in the past royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel, or the OCS, under the Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984, or the Research and Development Law, and the regulations promulgated thereunder. The terms of these grants prohibit us from manufacturing more than 10% of the products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approval. Even if we receive approval to manufacture these products outside of Israel, we may be required to pay increased royalties of the grant amount plus interest. If we elect to transfer more than an insubstantial portion of our manufacturing processes to contractors outside of Israel, we may be required to obtain the consent of the OCS and pay higher royalties to the OCS. The Research and Development Law also provides that the technology and know-how developed under an approved research and development program may not be transferred to third parties inside or outside of Israel without the approval of the OCS (and, in the case of a transfer outside of Israel, absent certain circumstances). Such approval is not required for the sale or export of any products resulting from such research or development. Even if we receive approval to a transfer of technology outside of Israel, a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer equal to the ratio of the aggregate amount of OCS grants received by us to the aggregate amount of all cash investments made in such technology, including the OCS grants, must be paid to the OCS. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing or engage in similar arrangements for those products or technologies. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties. Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we were not a passive foreign investment company in 2013, we cannot assure our shareholders that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company in 2014 or in future years. We would be a passive foreign investment company if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including the pro rata share of the gross income of any company, US or foreign, in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (or possibly the adjusted bases of our assets in particular circumstances), including the pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, in a taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a passive foreign investment company, many of our shareholders will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including: • taxation at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during a shareholder’s holding period on some distributions on our Ordinary Shares and on the gain from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares; 15 Table of Contents • the obligation to pay interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and • no increase in the tax basis for our Ordinary Shares to fair market value at the date of a shareholder’s death. 