Risk Factors,” the following events or factors can adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares: • announcements of technological innovations or new products by us or others; • public concern as to the safety of products we or others develop; • general market conditions; • success of research and development projects; • changes in government regulations or patent decisions; • our or a competitor’s announcement of regulatory approval, delays or problems; • the estimates of others, including research analysts, regarding our future performance, anticipated future revenues, expenses, operating losses, capital requirements and our need for additional financing; • actions by our competitors; and • developments by our collaboration partners. 28 Table of Contents Additionally, market prices for securities of biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies historically have been very volatile. The market for these securities has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations for reasons unrelated to the operating performance of any one company. The trading price of our ordinary shares has been, and could continue to be, subject to fluctuations in response to these factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our ordinary shares into the market. From May 16, 2007, when our ordinary shares began trading on The NASDAQ Global Market, through December 31, 2009, the high and low sales prices of our ordinary shares ranged from $19.60 to $6.17. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. As a result of this volatility, investors may not be able to sell their ordinary shares at or above the price paid for them. In the past, following periods of market volatility, shareholders have often instituted securities class action litigation. If we were involved in securities litigation, it could have a substantial cost and divert resources and attention of management from our business. Sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market could depress our share price. Warburg, Pincus Equity Partners, L.P., Warburg, Pincus Ventures International, L.P. and their affiliates, or Warburg Pincus, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 54.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Any sales of substantial amounts of our ordinary shares in the public market, including sales or distributions of shares by Warburg Pincus, or the perception that such sales might occur, could harm the market price of our ordinary shares and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. Raising additional capital by issuing securities may cause dilution to existing shares. We may need to raise substantial future capital to continue to complete clinical development and commercialize our products and product candidates and to conduct the research and development and clinical and regulatory activities necessary to bring our product candidates to market. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the failure to achieve commercial success of ZENPEP or costs incurred to launch ZENPEP in the U.S.; • the failure to obtain regulatory approval of ZENPEP in markets outside of the U.S.; • our success in establishing new collaboration partnerships; • the success of our collaboration partners in selling products utilizing our technologies; • the results of our preclinical studies and clinical trials for our earlier stage product candidates, and any decisions to initiate clinical trials if supported by the preclinical results; • the costs, timing and outcome of regulatory review of any of our product candidates that progress to clinical trials; • the costs of establishing or acquiring specialty sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, if any of our product candidates are approved; • the costs of preparing, filing and prosecuting patent applications, maintaining and enforcing our issued patents and defending intellectual property-related claims; • the extent to which we acquire or invest in businesses, products or technologies and other strategic relationships; and • the costs of financing unanticipated working capital requirements and responding to competitive pressures Additional financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance technology or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. In addition, we may be required to terminate or delay preclinical studies, clinical trials or other development activities for one or more of our product candidates, or delay our establishment of sales and marketing capabilities or other activities that may be necessary to commercialize our products or product candidates. 29 Table of Contents If we raise additional funds through co-development and licensing arrangements with third parties, we may have to relinquish valuable rights to our technologies or product candidates, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity or convertible debt securities, we will reduce the percentage ownership of our then-existing shareholders, and these securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our existing shareholders. Further, shareholders’ ownership will be diluted if we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities. Warburg, Pincus Equity Partners, L.P., Warburg, Pincus Ventures International, L.P. and their affiliates, our major shareholders, control approximately 54.8% of our ordinary shares, and this concentration of ownership may deter a change in control or other transaction that is favorable to our shareholders. Warburg, Pincus Equity Partners, L.P., Warburg, Pincus Ventures International, L.P. and their affiliates, or Warburg Pincus, in the aggregate, beneficially own approximately 54.8% of our outstanding ordinary shares. These shareholders could effectively control all matters requiring our shareholders’ approval, including the election of directors. This concentration of ownership may also cause, delay, deter or prevent a change in control, and may make some transactions more difficult or impossible to complete without the support of these shareholders, regardless of the impact of this transaction on our other shareholders. We are a Netherlands public limited liability company (naamloze vennootschap) and it may be difficult for you to obtain or enforce judgments against us, our executive officers, our directors or some of our named experts in the U.S. We were formed under the laws of The Netherlands and, as such, the rights of holders of our ordinary shares and the civil liability of our directors will be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and our articles of association. The rights of shareholders under the laws of The Netherlands may differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. Most of our directors and our executive officers and most of our assets and the assets of our directors are located outside the U.S. In addition, under our articles of association, all lawsuits against us and our directors and executive officers shall be governed by the laws of The Netherlands and must be brought exclusively before the Courts of Amsterdam, The Netherlands. As a result, you may not be able to serve process on us or on such persons in the U.S. or obtain or enforce judgments from U.S. courts against them or us based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the U.S. There is doubt as to whether Netherlands courts would enforce certain civil liabilities under U.S. securities laws in original actions and/or enforce claims for punitive damages. See “Service of Process and Enforceability of Civil Liabilities.” Under our articles of association, we indemnify and hold our directors harmless against all claims and suits brought against them, subject to limited exceptions. Under our articles of association, to the extent allowed by law, the rights and obligations among or between us, any of our current or former directors, officers and employees and any current or former shareholder shall be governed exclusively by the laws of The Netherlands and subject to the jurisdiction of The Netherlands courts, unless such rights or obligations do not relate to or arise out of their capacities listed above. Although there is doubt as to whether U.S. courts would enforce such provision in an action brought in the U.S. under U.S. securities laws, such provision could make enforcing judgments obtained outside of The Netherlands more difficult to enforce against our assets in The Netherlands or jurisdictions that would apply Netherlands law. We do not anticipate paying dividends on our ordinary shares, which could reduce the return on your investment. We have not paid cash dividends on our ordinary shares and do not expect to do so in the foreseeable future. We currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, terms of any existing or future debt agreements may preclude us from paying dividends. Accordingly, any return on your investment must come from appreciation of our ordinary shares. 30 Table of Contents Your rights as a holder of ordinary shares will be governed by Dutch law and will differ from the rights of shareholders under U.S. law. We are a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands. The rights of holders of ordinary shares are governed by Dutch law and our articles of association. These rights differ from the typical rights of shareholders in U.S. corporations. For example, Dutch law significantly limits the circumstances under which shareholders of Dutch companies may bring an action on behalf of a company. We incur significant costs as a result of operating as a public company, and our management is required to devote substantial time to new compliance initiatives. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and the NASDAQ Global Market, have imposed requirements on public companies, including requiring establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. Our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time to these compliance initiatives. Moreover, these rules and regulations have resulted in substantial legal and financial compliance costs and make some activities more time-consuming and costly. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective internal controls for financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures. In particular, as we are now a public company, we must perform system and process evaluation and testing of our internal controls over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Our compliance with Section 404 requires that we incur substantial accounting expense and expend significant management efforts. We currently do not have an internal audit group. If we are not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404, or if we or our independent registered public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our ordinary shares could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. Recent adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses. Recent turmoil in the financial markets has adversely affected economic activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business. Although we believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and short term investments balances and expected operating cash flows, the current lack of liquidity in the credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility, continued deterioration of the credit and capital markets could cause additional impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial condition and reported earnings. The continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for our products, thus reducing our revenue and earnings as well as have an adverse impact on our customers, distributors, collaboration partners, suppliers, service providers and ability to develop outlicensing relationships. 