Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occ ur. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition from other wireless equipment providers. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The market for wireless equipment is rapidly evolving, fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Increased competition, which may differ from region to region, in the wireless equipment market could result in reduced demand for our products, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our primary competitors include Aviat Networks (formerly known as Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.), Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., L.M. Ericsson Telephone Company, NEC Corporation (NEC) and Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. (NSN). In addition to these primary competitors, a number of other communications equipment suppliers, including Alcatel-Lucent, DragonWave Inc., Nera Networks AS, SIAE Microelectronica S.p.A. and ZTE Corporation, offer or are developing products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers through whom we market and sell our products, which means our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. Most of our principal competitors are substantially larger than we are and have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, marketing, distribution, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we have. They also have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we have. Many of these competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our competitors, especially those from China, may be able to offer customers financing that w ould increase the attractiveness of their products in comparison to ours. 3 Additionally, the telecommunications equipment industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. For example, Nokia and Siemens formed a joint venture to merge the Networks Business Group of Nokia and the carrier-related operations of Siemens into NSN. Other examples are the mergers of Alcatel and Lucent and of the wireless divisions of Harris and Stratex Networks, and the acquisition by Ericsson of Marconi. These consolidations have increased the size and thus the competitive resources of these companies. In the future, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may allow them to increase their market share an d competitive position. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Global competition and current market conditions, as well as significant concentration of our business in India and other parts of Asia Pacific, have resulted in downward pressure on the prices for our products, which could result in reduced revenues, gross margins and profitability. We operate in the wireless equipment market, which is characterized by vigorous, worldwide competition for market share and by rapid technological development. These factors have resulted in aggressive pricing practices and downward pricing pressures, as well as growing competition from both start-up companies and well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers. Moreover, competition for larger equipment orders is particularly intense since the number of large equipment orders in any year is limited. Consequently, we generally experience greater pricing pressure when we compete for larger orders as a result of this increased competition and demand from purchasers for greater volume discounts. As an increasing portion of our revenues is derived from large orders, we believe that our business will be more susceptible to these pressures. Also, in recent years we have increased sales of our products in India and other parts of Asia Pacific in response to the rapid build-out of cellular networks in those regions. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2009, 52% and 37%, respectively, of our revenues were earned in the Asia Pacific region, the majority of which was derived from India. We expect our revenues from sales of our products in Asia Pacific will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business in the future. Sales of our products in these markets are generally at lower gross margins in comparison to other regions. If we are unable to effectively respond to these pricing pressures, our revenues, gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced, and our gross margins could continue to be reduced. We are dependent upon sales of our FibeAir® family of products into a single market. Any reduction in demand for these products in this market would cause our revenues to decrease. We design, develop, manufacture and sell nearly all of our products to meet high-capacity point-to-point wireless backhaul needs. Nearly all of our revenues are generated from sales of our FibeAir® portfolio of products. We expect sales of our FibeAir® portfolio of products to continue to account for nearly all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are more likely to be adversely affected by a reduction in demand for point-to-point wireless backhaul products than companies that sell multiple and diversified product lines or into multiple markets. We sell a significant portion of our products through a small number of strategic relationships with OEMs at gross margins that are lower than the gross margins for our sales directly to customers, which lowers our overall gross margin. In addition, the loss of one or more of these key OEM relationships would result in a significant loss of revenues. We market and sell our products to customers through key OEMs that integrate our solutions into their product offerings. We anticipate that sales to our key OEMs will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business in the future. For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales to NSN, our largest OEM, represented approximately 19% of our revenues. 4 Our sales to our OEMs are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our relationships with our OEMs are generally governed by non-exclusive agreements that require us to competitively price our products, have no minimum sales commitments and do not prohibit our OEMs from offering products that compete with our solutions. The size of purchases by our OEMs typically fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. Our OEM agreements typically have an initial term between one and five years and automatically renew for successive one year terms. Some of our OEMs also possess significant resources and advanced technical capabilities and may, either independently or jointly with our competitors, develop and market products and related services that compete with our solutions. If either of these were to occur, our OEMs may discontinue marketing, distributing and supporting our solutions. NSN is a competitor with regard to some of our solutions. Furthermore, sales to our OEMs result in lower gross margins than sales directly to end-users through distributors and re-sellers and expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the revenues for our products. By selling our products to OEMs, we rely in part on the sales and marketing efforts of the OEMs, as well as on their post-sale support. These OEMs may decide to promote competing products or alternative technologies. If our OEMs fail to effectively market and support our products, or if we experience a loss or a substantial reduction in orders from these OEMs, or one of our OEMs terminates its relationship with us, our revenues may decline, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affect ed. NSN’s decision to promote competing products developed in-house may lead to fewer purchases of our products by NSN, which could significantly reduce our revenues. After the creation of NSN by Nokia and Siemens in mid-2006, Nokia assigned the Nokia OEM Agreement to NSN. During 2007, 2008 and 2009, sales to NSN accounted for approximately 10%, 24% and 19%, respectively of our revenues. NSN has decided to promote products developed in-house that compete with some of ours. Sales in 2009 to NSN decreased and have continued to decrease in the first quarter of 2010. We cannot assure you that NSN will continue to make substantial purchases of our products under the Nokia OEM Agreement. If the competing products developed by NSN gain customer acceptance, NSN could become a more significant competitor of ours, which would decrease our sales to NSN and could significantly reduce our revenues. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products and if they experience delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. We outsource all of our manufacturing processes to a limited number of contract manufacturers that are located in Israel and the Philippines. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these contract manufacturers. We have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from these contract manufacturers. Our contract manufacturers may themselves in the future experience manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity could result in delays in deliveries of our product to our customers, which could subject us to penalties payable to our customers, increased warranty costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our contract manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or shortages in components required for manufacturing, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. In additio n, some of our contract manufacturers have granted us licenses with respect to certain technology that is used in a number of our products. If we change contract manufacturers, we may be required to renegotiate such licenses or re-design some of our products, either of which could increase our cost of revenues and cause product delivery delays. If we change manufacturers, during such a transition period, we may be more likely to face delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity, and our sales, profits and customer relationships may suffer. 5 If we fail to effectively manage deliveries of our products and ancillary equipment, we may be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations and, in the event of an inability to fulfill commitments, would harm our customer relationships. We outsource our manufacturing operations and purchase ancillary equipment to our products from contract and other independent manufacturers and other third parties. If we fail to effectively manage and synchronize our deliveries from all these sources to the customer, or if one or more of the contract and other independent manufacturers or other third parties should not fully comply with their contractual obligations or should experience delays, disruptions or component procurement problems, then our ability to deliver complete product orders to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. We are increasingly engaged in supplying installation or turnkey projects for our customers. Such projects have inherent additional risks and are generally subject to acceptance testing procedures. Problems in executing this turnkey projects, including delays or failure in such acceptance tests, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are increasingly engaged in supplying installation and other services for our customers. In this context, we may act as prime contractor and equipment supplier for network build-out projects, providing installation, supervision and commissioning services required for these projects, or we may provide such services and equipment for projects handled by system integrators. As we engage in more turn-key projects, we expect to routinely enter into contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time, and we are dependent on the customer to issue acceptance certificates to generate and recognize revenue. In such turn-key projects, we typically bear the risks of loss and damage to our products until the customer has issued an acceptance certificate upon s uccessful completion of acceptance tests. If our products are damaged or stolen, or if the network we install does not pass the acceptance tests or if the customer does not or will not issue an acceptance certificate, the end user or the system integrator, as the case may be, could refuse to pay us any balance owed and we would incur substantial costs, including fees owed to our installation subcontractors, increased insurance premiums, transportation costs, and expenses related to repairing or manufacturing the products. Moreover, in such a case, we may not be able to repossess the equipment, thus suffering additional losses. In such event, we may not be able to generate or recognize revenue which could materially adversely impact our results of operation and financial position. Our contract manufacturers obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers and, in some cases, single or sole source suppliers. The loss of any of these suppliers could cause us to experience production and shipment delays and a substantial loss of revenue. Our contract manufacturers currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are obtained from a single or sole source supplier. Our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a single or sole source supplier or on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to the following risks: ● The component suppliers may experience shortages in components and interrupt or delay their shipments to our contract manufacturers. Consequently, these shortages could delay the manufacture of our products and shipments to our customers which could result in penalties and/or cancellation of orders for our products. ● The component suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. In such an event, our contract manufacturers or we may be unable to develop alternative sources for the components necessary to manufacture our products, which could force us to redesign our products. Any such redesign of our products would likely interrupt the manufacturing process and could cause delays in our product shipments. Moreover, a significant modification in our product design may increase our manufacturing costs and bring about lower gross margins. 6 ● The component suppliers may increase component prices significantly at any time and with immediate effect, particularly if demand for certain components increases dramatically in the global market. These price increases would increase component procurement costs and could significantly reduce our gross margins and profitability. We face intense competition from other high-speed communications solutions that compete with our high-capacity point-to-point wireless products, which could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products compete with other high-speed communications solutions, including fiber optic lines, leased copper lines and other wireless technologies. Some of these technologies utilize existing installed infrastructure and have achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than high-capacity point-to-point wireless technologies. Some of the disadvantages of high capacity, point-to-point wireless technologies that may make other technologies more appealing include: ● Extreme Weather Conditions: wireless backhaul solutions may not operate optimally in certain extreme weather conditions, including severe rainfalls or hurricanes; and ● Line-of-Sight Limitations: wireless backhaul solutions generally require a direct line-of-sight between antennas. Consequently, service providers often install these solutions on wireless antenna towers, rooftops of buildings and on other tall structures. As a result, service providers must generally secure roof or other property rights from the owners of each building or other structure on which our products are installed. This may delay deployment and increase the installation costs. Some base stations cannot be linked by line-of-sight solutions. In addition, customers may decide to use transmission frequencies for which we do not offer products. To the extent that these competing communications solutions reduce demand for our high-capacity point-to-point wireless transmission products, this reduction could have a materially adverse effect our business and results of operations. Consolidation of our potential customer base could harm our business. The trend toward mergers in the telecommunications industry has resulted in the consolidation of our potential customer base. In situations where an existing customer consolidates with another industry participant which uses a competitor’s products, our sales to that existing customer could be reduced or eliminated completely to the extent that the consolidated entity decides to adopt the competing products. Further, consolidation of our potential customer base could result in purchasing decision delays as consolidating customers integrate their operations and could generally reduce our opportunities to win new customers to the extent that the number of potential customers decreases. Finally, as our customers become larger they may have more leverage to negotiate better pricing which could harm our revenues and gross margins. We may acquire other businesses, which could result in integration problems and adversely affect our business. We may acquire other businesses. In the event that we consummate such transactions, we may be subject to risks such as an inability to effectively integrate our sales force and manufacture and distribute our products and services and an inability to effectively integrate the technology and other processes of the acquired businesses. Such acquisitions may also subject us to risks relating to: ● the diversion of management’s attention from our core business during the integration process; ● the management of a larger combined business, including implementing adequate internal controls; ● the loss of key employees of the acquired businesses; and 7 ● unanticipated losses in the event the acquisition is not consummated. However, the acquired businesses may not achieve the anticipated benefits or result in writedown or in result of impairment charges. In the event that we consummate the acquisition of other businesses, these challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to grow depends on acceptance by our customers of IP-based solutions, our ability to develop and introduce IP-based products and our ability to provide solutions to transition from circuit-switched to hybrid products to IP-based products. The market for IP-based backhaul equipment for mobile networks is continuing to evolve. Our future success depends in part on the acceptance by customers of IP-based networks, IP-based or hybrid backhaul solutions and IP-based or hybrid products that we are selling and continue to develop. Moreover, our future success depends on our ability to design and manufacture IP-related products and solutions that satisfy our customers’ needs to transition to IP-based networks and IP-based backhaul. If the IP-based backhaul for mobile networks market does not develop at the rate we expect as a result of alternative or changing technologies, changes in product standards and regulation, inability to gain customer acceptance or for any other reason, our future growth, business, financial condit ion, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new products that keep pace with technological developments, changing industry standards and our customers’ needs, we may not be able to grow our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards, as well as increasing pressures to make existing products more cost efficient. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: ● develop and market new products in a timely manner to keep pace with developments in technology; ● meet evolving customer requirements; ● enhance our current product offerings, including technological improvements which reduce the cost and manufacturing time; and ● timely deliver products through appropriate distribution channels. In addition, the wireless equipment industry is subject to evolving industry standards. The emergence or evolution of new industry standards for wireless products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could either render our products obsolete or require us to modify our products. Any such modifications may be expensive and time-consuming and, if we are able to meet these standards at all, could increase our product costs and adversely affect our profitability. We are continuously seeking to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Developing new products and product enhancements requires research and development resources and cooperation with subcontractors. We may not be successful in enhancing our existing products or developing new products in response to technological advances or to satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. We rely on a limited number of contractors as part of our research and development efforts. We conduct a part of our research and development activities through outside contractors. We depend on our contractors’ ability to achieve stated milestones and commercialize our products, and on their ability to cooperate and overcome design difficulties. Our contractors may experience problems, including the inability to recruit professional personnel, which could delay our research and development process. These delays could: ● increase our research and development expenses; 8 ● delay the introduction of our upgraded and new products to current and prospective customers and our penetration into new markets; and ● adversely affect our ability to compete. If our contractors fail to perform, we may be unable to secure alternative contractors that meet our needs. Moreover, qualifying new contractors may also increase our research and development expenses. Our sales cycles in connection with competitive bids or to prospective customers are lengthy. It typically takes from three to twelve months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer. In some instances, we participate in competitive bids in tenders issued by our customers or prospective customers. These tender processes can continue for many months before a decision is made by the customer. As a result, we are required to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to secure sales. In addition, the lengthy sales cycle results in greater uncertainty with respect to any particular sale, as events may occur during the sales cycle that impact customers’ decisions which, in turn, increases the difficulty of forecasting our results of operations. The economic conditions experienced in 2009 resulted in slowed customer buying decisions and price pressures that have increased pressure on our ability to generate revenue. These adverse market conditions have had a negative impact on our business by decreasing our new customer engagements and the size of initial spending commitments under those engagements, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending with existing customers. In addition, the slowdown in the buying decisions of our customers has extended our sales cycle period and limits our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. If the economic conditions experienced in 2009 continue or worsen, our business may be further harmed. We sell other manufacturers’ products as an OEM, which subjects us to various risks that may cause our revenues to decline. We sell a limited number of products on an OEM basis through relationships with a number of manufacturers. These manufacturers have chosen to sell a portion of their systems through us in order to take advantage of our reputation and sales channels. The sale of these OEM products by us depends in part on the quality of these products, the ability of these manufacturers to deliver their products to us on time and their ability to provide both presale and post-sale support. Sales of OEM products by us expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, technical and financial problems these companies might encounter or the promotion of their products through other channels and turning them into competitors rather than partners. If any of these risks materialize, we may not be able to develop alternative sources for these OEM products, which may cause our revenues to decline. Our products are used in critical communications networks which may subject us to significant liability claims. Since our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such cla ims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend, and could divert management’s attention and seriously damage our reputation and our business. 9 Uncertainty and possible delays in deployment of advanced wireless and other networks could cause our revenues to be lower than expected. Our sales depend on the deployment of advanced wireless networks and other networks. Any delay by wireless service providers in their network deployment schedules could result in lower than expected revenues for us, since these delays would also delay purchasing decisions by the wireless providers. Due to the growing volume of our sales to developing countries, we are susceptible to a number of political and economic risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our sales are made in countries in Asia Pacific, Latin America, MEA and Eastern Europe. For the year ended December 31, 2009, sales in these regions accounted for approximately 62% of our revenues. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political or economic events that adversely affects our business could result in significant revenue shortfalls. Any such revenue shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The following are some of the risks and challenges that we face doing business internationally, several of which are more likely in the emerging markets than in other countries: ● unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; ● unexpected changes in or imposition of tax and/or customs levies, such as anti-dumping regulations, and security regulations; ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; ● management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; ● burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; ● general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; ● longer sales cycles; ● difficulties in protecting intellectual property; ● laws and business practices favoring local competitors; ● demand for high-volume purchases with discounted prices; ● payment delays and uncertainties; and ● civil unrest, war and acts of terrorism. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, or if sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation in most jurisdictions and to various international treaties relating to wireless communications equipment and the use of radio frequencies. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of regulatory requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of those products. Also, these regulatory requirements may change from time to time, which could affect the design and marketing of our products as well as the competition we face from other suppliers’ products. 10 In addition, in most jurisdictions in which we operate, users of our products are generally required to either have a license to operate and provide communications services in the applicable radio frequency or must acquire the right to do so from another license holder. Consequently, our ability to market our products is affected by the allocation of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities, which may be by auctions or other regulatory selection. These governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the lack of available radio frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wir eless telecommunications networks. If sufficient radio spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, regulatory decisions allocating spectrum for use in wireless backhaul at frequencies used by our competitors’ products could increase the competition we face. Other areas of regulation and governmental restrictions, including tariff on imports and technology controls on exports, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Widespread use of wireless products may have health and safety risks. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from wireless telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our abi lity to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. Claims against other wireless equipment suppliers or wireless service providers could adversely affect the demand for our backhaul solutions. Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers. Inventory of raw materials, work in-process or finished products may accumulate in the future, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors including: ● new generations of products replacing older ones; ● the need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate; and ● changes in products because of technological advances and cost reduction measures. Further, our inventory of finished products may accumulate if a customer were to cancel an order or refuse to physically accept delivery of our products, or in turnkey projects which include acceptance tests, refuse to accept the network. The rate of such accumulation may increase in a period of economic downturn. Our contract manufacturers are required to purchase inventory based on manufacturing projections we provide to them. If our actual orders from our customers are lower than these manufacturing projections, our contract manufacturers will have excess inventory of raw materials or finished products which we would be required to purchase. In addition, we require our contract manufacturers from time to time to purchase more inventory than is immediately required, and to partially assemble components, in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. In the absence of such increase in demand, we may need to compensate our contract manufacturers. 11 If we are required to purchase excess inventory from our contract manufacturers or otherwise compensate our contract manufacturers for purchasing excess inventory, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We also may purchase components or raw materials from time to time for use by our contract manufacturers in the manufacturing of our products. These purchases are based on our own manufacturing projections. If our actual orders are lower than these manufacturing projections, we may accumulate excess inventory which we may be required to write-off. If we are forced to write-off this inventory other than in our ordinary course of business, our business, financial condition, results of operations could be materially adversely effected. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, as well as contractual rights, to protect our intellectual property. Until recently, we have not aggressively pursued patent protection and consequently, our patent portfolio may not be as extensive as those of our competitors. As a result, we may have limited ability to assert any patent rights in negotiations with, or in counterclaiming against, competitors who assert intellectual property rights against us. We also enter into confidentiality, non-competition and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors engaged in our research and development activities, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and certain customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot assure you that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. Moreover, under current law, we may not be able to enforce the non-competition agreements with our employees to their fullest extent. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. Any such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. The wireless equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been exposed to infringement allegations in the past. We are involved in discussions with a third party regarding the licensing of that party’s intellectual property. The other party offered a flat fee license however, no agreement has been reached We are unable to estimate the outcome of such discussions. We may in the future be notified that we are infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Any such litigation or claim could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any s uch litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages (including potentially treble damages and attorney’s fees should a court find such infringement willful), cease the use and licensing of allegedly infringing technology and the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts may be materially adversely affected. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in all these areas. We compete with other companies for personnel in all of these areas and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require is competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel due to compensation or other factors, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. 12 We are exposed to general global economic and market conditions which may have a material adverse effect on our results. Global economic weakness and uncertainty have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and difficulty managing inventory levels. For example, we have recently experienced reduced revenue due to slowing global economic growth, declines in the availability of credit, weakening consumer and business confidence, reduced levels of capital expenditures and other challenges currently affecting the global economy. Sustained uncertainty about current global economic conditions may result in our customers continuing to postpone spending, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services. While there was an increase in our net income during the second half of 2009 as compared to the first half of 2009, we cannot be sure that this increase will continue. In addition, the slowdown in the buying decisions of service providers has extended our sales cycle period and limits our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. A continuing or worsening of the ongoing credit and capital market disruption could result in a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on our business, including insolvency of certain of our key distributors, resellers, OEMs and systems integrators, which could impair our distribution channels. Inability of customers, including our distribution channel and partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and services would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Although we are unable to determine what its full effects will be, the current worldwide economic turmoil has had, and may have further, adverse consequences for our customers and our business. Our success in handling a contraction of our business due to continued economic turmoil will depend on our ability, among other things, to: ● develop efficient forecast methods for evaluating the prospective quantity of products that will be ordered by our customers; ● control inventories of components ordered by our contract manufacturers required to meet actual demand, including but not limited to handling the effects of excess inventories accumulated by such manufacturers; ● reduce the costs of manufacturing our products; ● continue to collect receivables from our customers in full and in a timely manner; and ● properly balance the size and capabilities of our workforce. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates. Although we derive the majority of our revenues in U.S. dollars a portion of our U.S. dollar revenues are derived from customers which operate in local currencies which are different from the U.S. dollar. Therefore, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or delay payment. In addition, part of our revenues from customers are in non-U.S. dollar currencies therefore we are exposed to the risk of devaluation of such currencies relative to the dollar which could have a negative impact on our revenues. In addition, a portion of our expenses are denominated in New Israeli shekels, or NIS, and to a lesser extent other non-U.S. dollar currencies. Our NIS-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS. In 2009, the NIS continued to fluctuate in comparison to the U.S. dollar, devaluating by approximately 3% in the first half of the year and then appreciating by approximately 4% in the second half of the year. In total, during 2009, the NIS appreciated by 0.7% in comparison to the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against the NIS in the future, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we are paid in non-U.S. dollar currencies or maintain monetary assets in non- U.S. dollar currencies, which could affect our reported results of operations. 13 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates and potentially punitive interest charges on certain distributions and on the proceeds of share sales. We do not believe that during the year ended December 31, 2009 we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Non-U.S. companies may generally be characterized as a PFIC if for any taxable year 75% or more of such company’s gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average value of all such company’s assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service could attempt to treat us as a PFIC for the taxable year ending December 31, 2009 or prior years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, including fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2010 or in subsequent years. For a discussion of the rules relating to passive foreign investment companies and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter and these quarterly variations in operating results, as well as other factors, may contribute to the volatility of the market price of our shares. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Most importantly, delays in completing product order delivery or completion of a sale can cause our revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. Furthermore, we may temporarily reduce prices in response to competition or increase spending in order to pursue new market opportunities. Additionally, the following factors may also cause fluctuations in our quarterly results: ● volume and timing of product orders received and delivered during the quarter; ● The ability to effectively manage and synchronize delivery of completed product order to customer; ● the timing of when our customers provide acceptance certificates in turnkey projects; ● the ability of our contract manufacturers to manufacture products on time; ● changes in the mix of products sold by us; ● timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; ● disruption in our continued relationship with our OEM partners; ● cost and availability of components and subsystems; ● adoption of new technologies and industry standards; ● competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products; ● ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; 14 ● fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; ● worldwide regulatory developments; and ● global economic conditions. The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: ● announcements of technological innovations; ● customer orders or new products or contracts; ● competitors’ positions in the market; ● changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; ● our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; ● the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof); and ● the general state of the credit markets, the current volatility of which could have an adverse effect on our investments. In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares following periods of volatility. Due to the size of their shareholdings, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel have influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. As of March 15, 2010, Yehuda Zisapel beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 6.4% of our outstanding ordinary shares; and Zohar Zisapel beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 12.9% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, who are brothers, do not have a voting agreement. Regardless, these shareholders may influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. Provisions of our Articles of Association, Memorandum of Association and Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Israeli Companies Law, or the Companies Law, generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by a majority of shareholders, and has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. However, with respect to companies such as ours which were incorporated prior to the effectiveness of the Companies Law, shareholder approval of a merger must be obtained by at least 75% of the shares participating at the shareholders’ meeting and voting thereon, not taking into account any abstentions. Shareholders may resolve to lower this super-majority requirement; however, such a resolution must be approved by at least a 75% majority. Moreover, the modification of our Memorandum of Association requires a 75% majority vote, and such a requiremen t may subject certain types of merger transactions or other business combinations to the same super-majority approval requirements. Additionally, upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. Further, a merger generally may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Our Articles of Association provide that our directors (other than the external directors) are divided into two classes: Class I and Class II. A director will generally serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual general meeting following the annual general meeting at which such director was elected. This election mechanism may discourage a takeover of our company. 15 Furthermore, certain provisions of other Israeli laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. For example, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as share-for-share exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. In addition, a merger, which may include the acquisition of more than 25% of the share capital of our company, may be subject to approval by the Israeli Controller of Restrictive Trade Practices, who may impede or delay a merger in accordance with the Restrictive Trade Practices Law, 1988. Finally, we must comply with the requirements of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development of 1984 an d regulations promulgated there under, which we refer to as the R&D Law, which may restrict our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could result in a decrease of our revenues. Our principal offices and research and development facilities, and the majority of our contract manufacturers’ facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Specifically, we could be adversely affected by: ● any major hostilities involving Israel; ● the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners; ● a full or partial mobilization of the reserve forces of the Israeli army; and ● a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, and a state of hostility, varying from time to time in intensity and degree, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. In an attempt to stop missile strikes from the Gaza Strip against Israelis, in January 2009 Israel became engaged in an armed conflict with Hamas in the Gaza Strip, during which missile attacks aimed at populated areas in parts of southern Israel (some of which are in vicinity of warehouse space we use) continued daily, disrupting most day-to-day civilian activity in these areas. These developments have further strained relations between Israel and the Palestinians. Any on-going or future violence between Israel and the P alestinians, armed conflicts, terrorist activities, tension along Israel’s northern borders, or political instability in the region would likely disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business conditions and those of our major contract manufacturers and could harm our results of operations. Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus, there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. For example, certain countries participating in the boycott described above have recently been increasing their investment in telecom operators in Africa. This growing control of the market in Africa could lead to a decrease of our sales in Africa in the future. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain of these countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. In additi on, such boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices may change over time and we cannot predict which countries, as well as whether certain companies and organizations, will be subject thereto. The boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our business in the future. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty in the Israel Defense Forces, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active reserve duty at any time under emergency circumstances for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of time of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. The full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. 16 We can give no assurance that the political and security situation in Israel, as well as the economic situation, will not have a material impact on our business in the future. Since we received Israeli government grants for research and development expenditures, we are subject to ongoing restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. We received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel through the end of 2006. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the R&D Law with respect to a portion of our products. Under the R&D Law, we cannot transfer technology developed with OCS grants, including by the sale of the technology, the grant of a license of such technology or the manufacture of a significant amount of our products that are based on such technology outside of Israel, unless we obtain the approval of an OCS committee. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approvals. Even if such OCS approvals a re obtained, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the OCS or, in case of a transfer of the technology outside of Israel, a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer, but not less than the OCS grants. If we fail to comply with any of the requirements of the R&D Law and of those imposed by the OCS, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the OCS together with interest and penalties, and we may be subject to criminal charges. In addition, under the R&D Law, any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our share capital is required to notify the OCS and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. In December 2006, we entered into an agreement with the OCS to conclude our research and development grant programs sponsored by the OCS. Under the agreement, we were obligated to repay the OCS approximately $11.9 million in outstanding grants, in six semiannual installments from 2007 through 2009. During the second quarter of 2008, we paid the OCS approximately $7.4 million to retire all the debt remaining from this agreement. We entered into this agreement because we believed that accelerating the interest-bearing royalty payments to the OCS would reduce our aggregate interest payments relating to the repayment of the grants. The agreement with the OCS impacts and will continue to impact our future results of operations in two respects: first, we will no longer receive additional grant s from the OCS, which would have offset our research and development costs; second, we will no longer record expenses relating to royalty payments to the OCS. As a result of our agreement with the OCS, we recorded non-recurring expenses of $10.4 million in 2006 as part of our cost of revenues. Our agreement with the OCS does not amend the terms of the OCS grants we received, and does not release us from continued compliance with the provisions of the R&D Law. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program and our beneficiary enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Company has capital investment programs that have been granted approved enterprise status ("Approved Programs") and a program under beneficiary enterprise status pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 ("Beneficiary Program"). When we begin to generate taxable income from these approved and/or beneficiary enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for regular enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise and/or beneficiary enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. 17 The tax benefits available to approved and beneficiary enterprise programs may be reduced or eliminated in the future. This would likely increase our tax liability. The Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved and/or beneficiary enterprise programs. Our approved and beneficiary program and the resulting tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability. The amount, if any, by which our tax liability would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, and our officers and directors named in this annual report, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel and to serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agre es to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, and including a judgment for the payment of compensation or damages in a non-civil matter, provided that: ● the judgment was given by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to give it; ● the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given; ● the judgment is no longer appealable; ● the judgment was not given by a court that is not competent to do so under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; ● there has been due process; ● the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; ● the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and ● an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court or tribunal at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. 18 