Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating and net losses. We may not operate profitably in the future. Although we reported a profit in 2004, we incurred operating and net losses in every fiscal year from our inception through 2003 and in 2005, and we may incur losses in the future. We reported net losses of $56.8 million for 2001, $14.4 million for 2002, $7.7 million for 2003 and $3.8 million for 2005. As of December 31, 2005, our accumulated deficit was $128.2 million. In order to meet expanding sales and operations requirements, our expenses may increase. As a result, net cash outflows may continue for the near term, and we may again incur net operating losses. If our sales do not increase or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, continuing profitability may not be achieved. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our quarterly financial performance is likely to vary significantly in the future. Our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of our future performance. It may therefore be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to continue to vary significantly in the future. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial performance may result from the fact that we may receive a small number of relatively large orders in any quarter. The deferral or loss of one or more significant sales could materially affect our operating results in any fiscal quarter, especially if there are significant sales and marketing expenses associated with the deferred or lost sales. Since large orders generate disproportionately large revenues, our revenues and the rate of growth of our revenues for a particular quarter may reach levels that may not be sustained in subsequent quarters. Thus, our revenues and operating results in any quarter may not be indicative of future performance and it may be difficult for investors to evaluate our prospects. Our products have lengthy sales cycles. This adds cost to our sales efforts and uncertainty as to their results. Our products have lengthy sales cycles. For example, it typically takes from six to twelve months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer. Because of this, we are often required to devote more time to, and spend more money on, marketing our products than would be necessary if sales were made more quickly. In some instances, we participate in competitive bids in tenders issued by existing or prospective customers. A tender process can continue for many months until a decision is made. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of revenues. In certain fiscal quarters, relatively few customers have accounted for a large percentage of our revenues. Our business may be seriously harmed if we experience a loss of any of our significant customers, or we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. The worldwide telecommunications industry is dominated by a small number of large corporations, and we expect that a significant portion of our future product sales per quarter will continue to be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, our customers typically are not contractually obligated to purchase any quantity of products in any particular period and product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers could result in further declines in our revenues. If these revenue declines occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. 3 We are dependent upon sales of our FibeAir® family of products. Any reduction in demand for these products would cause our revenues to decrease. All of our revenues are generated from sales of a single family of products, known as FibeAir®. We expect sales of our FibeAir family of products to continue to account for all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are more likely to be adversely affected by a reduction in demand for these products than companies that sell multiple product families. We also may not succeed in reducing the risk associated with any slowdown in demand for our FibeAir products. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products. This could result in a disruption in supply of these products. We outsource the majority of our manufacturing processes to contract manufacturers. We do not have long-term contracts with all of these contract manufacturers. We have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from these manufacturers. This could delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturers may themselves in the future experience other manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, quality problems and shortages could result in delayed deliveries, penalties, equipment replacement costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs. Moreover, qualifying new manufacturers and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. If we are required or choose to change manufacturers, our sales and our customer relationships may suffer. Our contract manufacturers obtain some of the components included in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. If they lose any of these suppliers, we may experience production delays and a substantial loss of revenue. Our contract manufacturers currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are obtained from a single source supplier. Their dependence on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to the following risks: • The component suppliers could increase component prices significantly at any time and with immediate effect. This would increase component procurement costs and could result in reduced gross margins for us. • The component suppliers may themselves experience shortages in components and interrupt or delay their shipments to our manufacturers. This may delay our product shipments to our customers and result in penalties and/or cancellation of orders for our products. • The component suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. If this occurs and we or our manufacturers are unable to develop alternative sources for components, we might need to modify our products. This would likely interrupt the manufacturing process and could cause delays in our product shipments. Moreover, a significant modification in our product design may increase our manufacturing costs and force us to accept lower gross margins. • Our manufacturers may purchase more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. Such inventory can become obsolete. 4 Our business depends in part on original equipment manufacturers. The success of the sales of our products currently depends in part on existing relationships with original equipment manufacturers. A portion of our systems is sold to and through such OEMs rather than directly to carriers. The sale of our products depends in part on the OEMs’ active marketing and sales efforts as well as the quality of their post-sales support. Sales through the OEMs’ channels expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our wireless products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, or consolidation of some of these OEMs, or financial problems they might face, as well as the promotion of competing products or emphasis on alternative technologies by these OEMs, turning them into competitors rather than our partners. Any of the foregoing may result in decline in the purchase of our products. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from OEMs’ sale of these products with their own brand names, or from our inability to enter into relationships with additional OEMs that would give us better penetration to existing and potential markets. If any of these risks materialize, we will need to develop alternative methods of marketing these products. Until we do so, sales of our products may decline. If sufficient demand for our wireless products does not develop, we will not be able to generate significant revenues and we may not be profitable on an annual basis. The acceptance of the wireless equipment which we and our competitors sell as a means of delivering data, video and voice traffic will depend upon numerous factors, including: • its capacity to handle growing volumes of traffic; • its cost effectiveness; • its reliability and security; • the availability of sufficient equipment, frequency bands and installation sites; and • its performance in extreme weather conditions. If our products do not address these factors in a manner which satisfies the requirements of prospective customers and end-users, the demand for our products may be adversely affected and we may not be able to generate significant revenues or operate profitably. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new and enhanced wireless products that keep pace with technological developments and our customers’ needs, our revenues may not increase. The market for our products is new and emerging. It is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: • develop and market new products in a timely manner to keep pace with developments in technology; • meet evolving customer requirements; • enhance our current product offerings; and • deliver products through appropriate distribution channels. We are continuously seeking to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Developing new products and product enhancements requires significant capital expenditures and research and development resources and we are therefore being much more selective in these investments. We may not be successful in enhancing our existing products or developing new products in response to technological advances or to satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. We face intense competition from other wireless equipment providers. Our failure to compete effectively could hurt our sales. The market for wireless equipment is rapidly evolving, fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Increased competition could result in reduced demand for our products, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business. A number of communications equipment suppliers, including (in alphabetical order) Alcatel, Dragonwave, Harris Corporation, Huawei Technologies, L.M. Ericsson, Motorola NEC, Nera, Stratex Networks, SIAE, Siemens and ZTE, as well as other companies offer or are developing products that may compete with our products. 5 Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, marketing, distribution, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we have. Some also have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we have. Many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. Some of our competitors have product lines that compete with ours, and are also through which we market and sell our products on an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) basis. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures from both current and future competitors. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain market share rapidly. We also expect that industry consolidation will increase competition. We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including price, quality, availability, manufacture by contract manufacturers, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors, and the ability of our customers to obtain financing. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution and customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully. Competition and current market conditions have resulted in downward pressure on the prices for our products, which could result in decreased revenues. We participate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. These factors have resulted in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition both from start-up companies and from well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers. Manufacturers of digital microwave telecommunications equipment are experiencing price pressure, which has resulted in downward pricing pressure on our products. Our future profitability is dependent upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements. Pricing is affected by other factors as well, including but not limited to the size of a given transaction, the geographic location of the customer, the specific application for which products are sold, the channel through which products are sold, the competitive environment and the results of negotiation. Any inability by us to effectively respond to price pressures may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face intense competition from broadband technologies that compete with wireless transmission which could hurt our sales. Our products also compete to a certain extent with other high-speed communications solutions, including fiber optic lines, free space optics, low to medium capacity point-to-point radios and other wireless technologies. Some of these technologies utilize existing installed infrastructure and have achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than high-capacity broadband wireless technologies. In addition, customers may wish to use transmission frequencies for which we do not offer products and therefore such customers turn to our competitors to fulfill such needs. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures from both current and future technologies in the broadband access market. Consolidation within the telecommunications industry and among suppliers could decrease our revenues. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to such companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays by the merged companies and decrease opportunities for us to supply our products to the merged companies. We may also see similar consolidation among suppliers which may further decrease our opportunity to market and sell our products. 6 Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, expose us to litigation and harm our operating results. We and our customers have from time to time discovered defects in our products and additional defects may be found in the future. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or a delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, defects in our products could cause adverse publicity, damage our reputation and impair our ability to acquire new customers. In addition, we may need to make significant capital expenditures to eliminate defects from our products or to replace defective equipment. Moreover, because our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend and could seriously damage our reputation and our business. Line-of-sight limitations inherent in wireless products may limit deployment options and have an adverse affect on our sales. Our wireless products require a direct line-of-sight between antennas, potentially limiting the ability of our customers to deploy them in a cost-effective manner. Because of line-of-sight limitations, service providers often install wireless equipment on the rooftops of buildings and on other tall structures. Communications service providers must generally secure roof rights from the owners of each building or other structure on which our products are installed. Any inability to obtain roof rights easily and cost effectively may cause a delay in deployment and increase the installation cost of our products or may cause customers not to choose to install wireless equipment. Due to uncertainty and possible delays in deployment of advanced cellular and other networks, our revenues could be lower than expected due to delayed purchasing decisions by cellular and other customers for our products. We have significantly increased sales to customers in the cellular market to support wireless requirements for third generation cellular networks. For sales in the cellular market, any delays by cellular providers in their third generation network deployment schedules could result in lower than expected revenues for us, since any such deployment schedule delays could result in delayed purchasing decisions by such customers. Due to our significant volume of international sales and our rapid expansion into new markets, we are susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business if they occur. We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to account for the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic events that adversely affects our business could result in significant revenue shortfalls. Any such revenue shortfalls could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed. Some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally include: • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; 7 • burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; and • payment delays and uncertainties. • war and acts of terrorism The unpredictability of our quarter-to-quarter results may harm the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. These factors include: • volume and timing of product orders received and delivered during the quarter; • our ability, and the ability of our contract manufacturers, to manufacture products on time; • our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes made by customers in their orders; • timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • changes in the mix of products sold by us; • cost and availability of components and subsystems; • downward pricing pressure on our products; • adoption of new technologies and industry standards; • competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products; • ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • regulatory developments; and • general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Our stock price may be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the telecommunications industry in which we compete, or the economies of the countries in which we do business and other factors could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, recently, the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors and fluctuations could lower the market price of our ordinary shares. Following the implementation of SFAS No. 123R, we are required to record a compensation expense in connection with share based compensation, and, as a result, our profitability may be reduced significantly. On December 16, 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”), which is a revision of SFAS No. 123 originally issued in 1995 (SFAS 123). Generally, the approach in SFAS 123R is similar to the approach described in SFAS 123. However, SFAS 123 permitted, but did not require, share-based payments to employees to be recognized as an expense while SFAS 123R requires, as of the first quarter of 2006, all share-based payments to employees to be recognized as a compensation expense based on their fair values. SFAS 123R also revises, clarifies and expands guidance in several areas, including measuring fair value, classifying an award as equity or as a liability and attributing compensation cost to reporting periods. The impact of adoption of Statement 123(R) cannot be predicted because it will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future. However, had we adopted this standard in prior periods, we may have recorded a material amount as compensation expense, which would have had a material adverse effect on our profitability. In addition, if as a result of SFAS 123R we would stop or limit the use of stock options as an incentive and retention tool, it could have a negative effect on our ability to recruit and retain employees. 8 We are exposed to additional costs associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. As a public company, we will be spending an increased amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new Securities and Exchange Commission regulations and Nasdaq National Market rules. Particularly, as a foreign private issuer, we will need to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act no later than the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting, and possibly attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting by management and our independent public accounting firm in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006, and with each subsequently filed annual report on Form 20-F. As part of this process, we will need to document and test our internal control systems and procedures and make improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process will result in additional accounting and legal expenses. In addition, if we are unable to implement required changes within the time limit imposed by Section 404, it could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation by United States and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products. In addition, both in the United States and internationally, we are affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations and regulations, and the process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. We are increasingly engaged in supplying post-delivery services to our customers, often in developing nations, which are subject to acceptance testing procedures. Any loss of products and delay or failure in such acceptance tests would significantly affect our revenues and operating expenses. In addition, we face intense competition from other equipment and services providers in supplying such services. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our revenues. As we continue to expand our geographic footprint, we are increasingly engaged in supplying post delivery services for our customers, often in developing nations. We may act as prime contractor and equipment supplier for network build-out projects and provide installation, supervision and testing services required for these projects or we may provide such services and equipment for projects handled by system integrators. We typically bear the risks of loss and damage and title to our products until the customer has issued an acceptance certificate upon successful completion of acceptance tests. If our products are damaged or stolen, or if the products do not pass the acceptance tests, the end user or the system integrator, as the case may be, could refuse to pay us and we would incur substantial costs, including fees owed to our subcontractors, increased insurance premiums, transportation costs, and expenses related to repairing manufacturing the products. Moreover, in such a case, we may not be able to repossess the equipment, thus suffering additional losses. 9 The competition for providing the services described above to end users and system integrators is intense and is subject to factors similar to those described in the section above regarding competition from wireless equipment providers. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution and customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully. Our products operate primarily on government-licensed radiospectrum frequencies. If a customer or end-user of our products is unable to secure such a license, or if a holder of a license files for bankruptcy and its license is unavailable, such customer or end-user of our products may be unable to provide wireless communications services in the optimal transmission frequency and may not deploy a wireless network using our products. Our products operate primarily on government-licensed radiospectrum frequencies. Users of our products must either have a license to operate and provide communications services in the applicable frequency or must acquire the right to do so from another license holder. If unable to secure such a license, a customer or end-user may not deploy a wireless network using our products. If a license holder of such radiospectrum frequency files for liquidation, dissolution or bankruptcy, substantial time could pass before those licenses are transferred, canceled, reissued or made available by the applicable government licensing authority. Until the licenses are transferred, canceled, reissued or otherwise made available, other operators may be precluded from operating in such licensed frequencies, which could decrease demand for our products. In addition, if the authorities choose to revoke licenses for certain frequencies, demand for our products may decrease as well. If there is a change in government regulation, or if industry standards change, the potential markets for our products may become limited and we may need to modify our products. This may increase our product costs and adversely affect our ability to become profitable. The emergence or evolution of regulations and industry standards for wireless products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could require us to modify our systems. This may be expensive and time-consuming. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, foreign laws and international treaties. Each country has different regulations and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and uses of radio frequencies. Any failure by regulatory authorities to allocate suitable, sufficient radio frequencies to potential customers in a timely manner could negatively impact demand for our products and may result in the delay or loss of potential orders for our products. In addition, if new industry standards emerge that we do not anticipate, our products could be rendered obsolete. There may be regulatory restrictions imposed due to environmental or health concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location and number of outdoor antennas. There may be health and safety risks relating to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. 10 Our products may not meet the new European governmental regulations, including environmental standards, required for their sale, which may negatively affect our sales. Our activities in Europe require that we comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “RoHS” Directive), requires products sold in Europe to meet certain design specifications, which exclude the use of hazardous substances, will take effect on July 1, 2006 and requires that certain of our products be modified to meet this regulation. Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “WEEE” Directive) requires produces of electrical and electronic equipment to register in different European countries and provide collection and recycling facilities for used products. If we fail to achieve compliance, we may be restricted from selling our products in the European Union and this could adversely affect our results of operations. If we are unable to continue to license technology from third parties on reasonable terms, we may be precluded from selling products derived from licensed technology and we may be required to reduce the functionality of our products. This may adversely affect our sales. We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, we will face delays in releases of our products and may be required to reduce the operating capabilities of our products, for example, by reducing the number of operating systems on which our products operate, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the United States and internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademark, copyright and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot assure you that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under United States law. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We are involved in discussions regarding the licensing of the intellectual property of another party, but we are not able to estimate the outcome of such discussions. We may in the future be notified that we are infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Such litigation or claim could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the licensing of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our non-competition agreements with employees may not be enforceable. If any of our employees leaves us and joins a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. Our non-competition agreements with permanent employees prohibit these employees from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. However, under current law or possible changes in the law, we may not be able to enforce these agreements to their fullest extent. If we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, our competitors may employ our former employees and benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. 11 Due to the size of their shareholdings, some of our shareholders, including Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. This could delay or prevent actions that require shareholder approval. As of March 31, 2006, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, who are brothers that do not vote as a group and who do not have a voting agreement, beneficially owned, directly or through entities they control, 23.2% of the outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders may control the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. For example, they may be able to elect our directors, delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares or prevent changes in control or management. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates and potentially punitive interest charges on the proceeds of share sales. We do not believe that during 2005 we were a passive foreign investment company. Foreign companies may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if for any taxable year 75% or more of such company’s gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average value of all such company’s assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. These consequences may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could result in a decrease of our revenues. Our principal offices, manufacturing facilities, subcontractors and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Such ongoing hostilities may hinder Israel’s international trade relations and may limit the geographic markets where we can sell our products. Such events could have a material adverse effect on our operations and business. Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain of these countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. We believe that the boycott has not had a material adverse effect on us. However, the boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could adversely affect us. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. We believe that we have operated effectively given these requirements since we began operations. Nevertheless, the full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. 12 We do not believe that the political and security situation in Israel has had any material impact on our business to date. However, we can give no assurance that it will not have such effect in the future. Since a majority of our revenues is generated in U.S. dollars while a portion of our expenses is incurred in new Israeli shekels, our results of operations would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the new Israeli shekel against the U.S. dollar. A majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses for Israeli employees and consultants, local vendors and subcontractors, are in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations and would therefore have an adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. Since we receive Israeli government grants for research and development expenditures, we are subject to ongoing restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. We currently receive grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor (the “OCS”) for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. In 2003, 2004 and 2005, we received or accrued OCS grants totaling approximately $2.0 million, $2.3 million and $1.8 million, representing approximately 22%, 24% and 16%, respectively, of our total research and development expenditures in these periods. To maintain our eligibility for these grants we must continue to meet several conditions under the grant programs, including paying royalties with respect to the grants received. If we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any payments previously received, together with interest and penalties. In addition, the terms of the OCS grants limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel, if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants. If we elect to transfer more than an insubstantial portion of our manufacturing processes to contractors outside of Israel, we may be required to pay higher royalties to the OCS. Any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the OCS and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor has granted “approved enterprise” status to investment programs at our manufacturing facility in Tel Aviv. When we begin to generate taxable income from these approved enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional five to eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, or fail to get approval in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for non-approved enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. The tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs may be reduced or eliminated in the future. This would likely increase our tax liability. The Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs. Our approved program and tax benefits thereunder may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability.The amount, if any, by which our tax liability would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. 13 We may be required to pay stamp duty on agreements executed by us on or after June 1, 2003 and until January 1, 2006. This would increase our expenses. The Israeli Stamp Duty on Documents Law, 1961 (the “Stamp Duty Law”), provides that most documents signed by Israeli companies are subject to a stamp duty, generally at a rate of between 0.4% and 1.0% of the value of the subject matter of such document. De facto, it has been common practice in Israel not to pay such stamp duty unless a document is filed with a governmental authority or with the courts. As a result of an amendment to the Stamp Duty Law that came into effect on June 1, 2003, the Israeli tax authorities have approached many companies in Israel, including Ceragon, and requested the disclosure of all agreements signed by such companies after June 1, 2003 with the aim of collecting stamp duty on such agreements. Based on advice from Israeli counsel, we believe that we may only be required to pay stamp duty on documents signed on or after August 2004. However, we cannot provide any assurance that the tax authorities or the courts will accept such view. Although at this stage it is not yet possible to evaluate the effect, if any, on our business operations of the amendment to the Stamp Duty Law, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Under an order published in December 2005, the said requirement to pay stamp duty was cancelled with respect to documents signed on or after January 1, 2006. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, and our officers and directors named in this annual report, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel and to serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. Substantially all of our executive officers and directors named in this annual report are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of the assets of these persons are located outside the United States, although a significant portion of our assets are located in the U.S. It may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court or to effect service of process upon these persons. Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders by means of a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. 14 