D. Risk Factors We believe that the occurrence of any one or some combination of the following factors would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We have invested material funds in auction rate securities, whose value has been materially impaired and may be further impaired and whose illiquidity may limit our ability to pursue acquisitions. At December 31, 2007, we had an investment in the amount of $20.3 million in auction rate securities. Auction rate securities include long-term bonds that provide liquidity through a Dutch auction process that resets the applicable interest rate at pre-determined calendar intervals, generally every 28 days. This mechanism allows existing investors either to roll over their holdings, whereby they will continue to own their respective securities, or liquidate their holding by selling such securities at par. The auctions have historically provided a liquid market for these securities as investors historically could readily sell their investments at auction. With the liquidity problems recently experienced in global credit and capital markets, certain auction rate securities experienced multiple failed auctions, beginning in August 2007 as the amount of securities submitted for sale exceeded the amount of purchase orders. The estimated fair value of our auction rate security as of December 31, 2007 was $5.1 million. Accordingly, we have recorded an impairment charge for 2007 in the amount of $15.2 million in respect of our auction rate security. If uncertainties in credit markets continue or if such markets deteriorate further, we may incur additional impairments to our auction rate security. The stated maturity of these securities is 2046. There is currently a very limited market for these auction rate securities, and liquidation by us at this time, if possible, would likely be at a significant discount. Our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2007 were $12.4 million. This situation leaves us with limited cash resources with which to pursue our acquisition strategy. If market conditions require us to record any additional impairment or if our business needs require us to liquidate all or a portion of our auction rate securities, there could be a material adverse affect on our financial condition and results of operations. We seek to expand our business through acquisitions that could result in diversion of resources and extra expenses, and which may involve other risks that could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition. We pursue acquisitions of business, products and technologies, or the establishment of joint venture arrangements, that could expand our business. The negotiation of potential acquisitions or joint ventures as well as the integration of an acquired or jointly developed business, technology or product could cause diversion of management's attention from the day-to-day operation of our business. This could impair our relationships with our employees, customers, distributors, resellers and marketing allies. Future acquisitions could result in: · potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities; · the incurrence of debt and contingent liabilities; · amortization of intangible assets; · changes in our business model and margins; · research and development write-offs; and · other acquisition-related expenses. Future acquisitions involve known and unknown risks that could adversely affect our future revenues and operating results. For example: · we may fail to identify acquisitions that enable us to execute our business strategy; · we compete with others to acquire companies. We believe that this competition has intensified and may result in decreased availability of, or increased prices for, suitable acquisition candidates; · we may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals, including the approval of anti-competition regulatory bodies, in countries where we are seeking to consummate acquisitions; · we may ultimately fail to consummate an acquisition even if we announce that we plan to acquire a company; · we may fail to successfully integrate acquisitions in accordance with our business strategy; · we may not be able to retain the skilled employees and experienced management that may be necessary to operate the businesses we acquire and, if we cannot retain such personnel, we may not be able to attract new skilled employees and experienced management to replace them; and · we may purchase a company that has contingent liabilities that include, among others, known or unknown patent or product. In addition, we have limited experience with respect to negotiating an acquisition and operating an acquired business. If future acquisitions disrupt our operations, our business may suffer. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel we will not be able to implement our business strategy or operate our business effectively. Our products require sophisticated research and development, sales and marketing, software programming and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel within each of these areas of expertise. Qualified personnel in these areas are in great demand and are likely to remain a limited resource for the foreseeable future. We cannot assure you that we will be able to retain the skilled employees we require. In addition, the resources required to retain such personnel may adversely affect our operating margins. The failure to retain qualified personnel may harm our business. In particular, we maintain a large technical and support center in Jassy, Romania and have encountered many attempts from other technology companies to recruit our employees after we have trained them. If this phenomenon continues and increases, we may be forced to raise the salaries of our Romanian employees and our results of operations will be harmed. Because a substantial majority of our revenues are generated outside of Israel, our results of operations could suffer if we are unable to manage international operations effectively. In 2006 and 2007, approximately 94% and 93% of our revenues, respectively, were generated outside of Israel. Our sales outside of Israel are made in more than 40 countries. We currently have sales and support offices located in Silver Spring, Maryland and in Reading, U.K. In addition, we have a technical and support team in Jassy, Romania. We plan to establish additional facilities in other parts of the world, either through acquisitions or internal expansion based on market needs. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our ability to penetrate some international markets may be limited due to different technical standards, protocols and requirements for our products in different markets. We cannot be certain that our investments in establishing facilities in other countries will produce desired levels of revenue. In addition, conducting our business internationally subjects us to a number of risks, including: · staffing and managing foreign operations; · increased risk of collection; · potentially adverse tax consequences; · the burden of compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations; · burdens that may be imposed by tariffs and other trade barriers; and · political and economic instability. Because some of our customers require a lengthy approval process before they order our products, our sales process is often subject to delays that may decrease our revenues and seriously harm our business. In 2007, we derived 83% of our revenues from the sale of software and related services to telecommunications service providers. Before we can sell our software to some of these customers, they conduct a lengthy and complex approval and purchasing process. The following factors, among others, affect the length of the approval process: · the time required for our customers to determine and announce their specifications; · the time required for the customer to receive the internal approvals necessary in order for it to commit significant resources towards acquisition of the billing solution; · the build-up of the customer's network infrastructure; and · the timely release of new versions of products comprising enhanced functionality, specifically requested by the customer. Additional delays in product approval may decrease our revenues and could seriously harm our business and results of operations. A slow down in expenditures by telecommunications service providers could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. There is a global uncertainty with respect to the direction of the economy and the telecommunications market. Many new and small service providers have failed and existing service providers have been reducing or delaying expenditures on new equipment and applications. A continuation of such delays or a decline in capital expenditures by telecommunications service providers may reduce our sales and could result in additional pressure on the price of our products, both of which would have a material adverse effect on our operating results. If we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace, we may suffer a decrease in market share, revenues and profitability. Competition in our industry is intense and we expect competition to increase. We compete both with established global billing companies such as Comverse (after the acquisition of the Global Software Services division of CSG Systems International by Comverse), Oracle Corporation (after the acquisition of Portal Software by Oracle) and Convergys Corporation (after the acquisition of Geneva Technology by Convergys) as well as with local billing companies. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Some of our competitors have a lower cost structure and compete with us on pricing. Current and potential competitors have established, and may establish in the future, cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to address the needs of prospective customers. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to compete effectively against current or future competitors or that competitive pressure will not harm our financial results. Our backlog, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our backlog, revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including the following: · the timing of orders and/or deliveries for our software may be delayed as customers typically order and/or implement our billing and customer care software only after other vendors have provided the network infrastructure, a process that is subject to delay. It is therefore difficult for us to predict the timing of orders and/or revenue recognition; · the ability of our customers to expand their operations and increase their subscriber base, including their ability to obtain financing; · potential termination of long-term contracts by our customer due to lack of financing, internal changes or any other reason; · changes in our pricing policies or competitive pricing by our competitors; and · the timing of product introductions by competitors. In future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and as a result, the price of our ordinary shares may fall. The customer base for our traditional wireline and wireless billing and customer care products is characterized by small to medium size telephony carriers. If this market segment fails to grow, the demand for our billing and customer care software would diminish substantially. Our traditional wireline and wireless billing and customer care products target small to medium size telephony carriers. Our growth in this field depends on continued growth of these traditional telephony carriers. We cannot be certain that small to medium size telephony carriers will be able to successfully compete with large telephony carriers in existing markets or will successfully develop in new and emerging markets. If this market segment fails to grow, the demand for our billing and customer care software would diminish substantially and our business would suffer. In addition, there may never be significant demand for new billing and customer care software by providers of traditional services. From time to time, our software and the systems into which it is installed contain undetected errors. This may cause us to experience a significant decrease in market acceptance and use of our software products and we may be subject to warranty and other liability. From time to time, our software, as well as the systems into which it is integrated, contain undetected errors. Because of this integration, it can be difficult to determine the source of the errors. Also, from time to time, hardware systems we resell contain certain defects or errors. As a result, and regardless of the source of the errors, we could experience one or more of the following adverse results: · diversion of our resources and the attention of our personnel from our research and development efforts to address these errors; · negative publicity and injury to our reputation that may result in loss of existing or future customers; and · loss of or delay in revenue and loss of market share. In addition, we may be subject to claims based on errors in our software or mistakes in performing our services. Our licenses and agreements generally contain provisions such as disclaimers of warranties and limitations on liability for special, consequential and incidental damages, designed to limit our exposure to potential claims. However, not all of our contracts contain these provisions and we cannot assure you that the provisions that exist will be enforceable. In addition, while we maintain product liability and professional indemnity insurance, we cannot assure you that this insurance will provide sufficient, or any, coverage for these claims. A product liability or professional indemnity claim, whether or not successful, could adversely affect our business by damaging our reputation, increasing our costs, and diverting the attention of our management team. Our business may be negatively affected by exchange rate fluctuations. Although most of our revenues are denominated in U.S. dollars, approximately 42% of our expenses are incurred in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS. As a result, we may be negatively affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Euro or the NIS and the U.S. dollar. For example, in 2007, the value of the U.S. dollar decreased in relation to the NIS by 9.0%, while inflation increased by 3.4%. As a result, our salary expenses, which are primarily linked to the NIS, increased in U.S. dollar terms. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation or appreciation of the NIS against the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our U.S. dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. In addition, devaluation in the Euro or local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause customers to decrease or cancel orders or default on payment. We may choose to limit these exposures by entering into hedging transactions. However, hedging transactions may not enable us to avoid exchange-related losses, and our business may be harmed by exchange rate fluctuations. The imposition of price or exchange controls or other restrictions on the conversion of foreign currencies could affect our ability to collect payments, which in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If our products fail to achieve widespread market acceptance, our results of operations will be harmed. Our future growth depends on the continued commercial acceptance and success of our products. We first introduced our billing and customer care software for Voice over IP in 1997 and since then we have developed new versions that offer mediation, rating, billing and customer care for multiple services. Accordingly, we cannot be sure that our products will achieve widespread market acceptance. Our future performance will depend on the successful development, introduction and consumer acceptance of new and enhanced versions of our products. We are not certain that we will be able to develop new and enhanced products to meet changing market needs. If our new and enhanced products are not well received in the marketplace, our business and results of operations will be harmed. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products. We depend on our marketing alliances and reseller arrangements with manufacturers of telecommunications equipment to market our products. If we are unable to maintain our existing marketing alliances, or enter into new alliances, our revenues and income will decline. We have derived, and anticipate that we will continue to derive, a portion of our market opportunities and revenues from our marketing alliances and reseller arrangements with major manufacturers of telecommunications equipment, including Alcatel, Cisco, Ericsson and Siemens, which market or recommend our products to their customers. Our marketing alliances and reseller arrangements with these parties are nonexclusive and do not contain minimum sales or marketing performance requirements. In most instances, there is no formal contractual arrangement. As a result, these entities may terminate these arrangements without notice, cause or penalty. There is also no guarantee that any of these parties will continue to market our products. Our arrangements with our resellers and marketing allies do not prevent them from selling products of other companies, including products that compete with ours. Moreover, our marketing allies and resellers may develop their own internal mediation, rating, billing and customer care software products that compete with ours, or acquire one of our competitors. If we are unable to maintain our current marketing alliances and reseller relationships, or if these marketing allies and resellers develop their own competing mediation, rating, billing and customer care software products, our revenues and income will decline. If our software does not continue to integrate and operate successfully with the telecommunications equipment of the leading manufacturers, we may be unable to maintain our existing customer base and/or generate new sales. The success of our software depends upon the continued successful integration and operation of our software with the telecommunications equipment of the leading manufacturers. We currently target a customer base that uses a wide variety of network infrastructure equipment and software platforms, which are constantly changing. In order to succeed, we must continually modify our software as new telecommunications equipment is introduced. If our product line fails to satisfy these demanding and rapidly changing technological challenges, our existing customers will be dissatisfied. As a result, we may be unable to generate future sales and our business will be materially adversely affected. We depend on a limited number of key personnel who would be difficult to replace. If we lose the services of these individuals, our business will be harmed. Because our market is new and evolving, the success of our business depends in large part upon the continuing contributions of our senior management. Specifically, continued growth and success largely depend on the managerial and technical skills of Monica Eisinger, our President and Chief Executive Officer and one of our founders, and other members of senior management. Because the demand for highly qualified senior personnel exceeds the supply of this type of personnel, it will be difficult to replace members of our senior management if one or more of them were to leave us. If either Ms. Eisinger or other members of the senior management team are unable or unwilling to continue their employment with our company, our business will be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to continually develop and market new and more technologically advanced products and enhancements. The market for our products and the services they are used to support is characterized by: · rapid technological advances like the development of new standards for communications protocols; · frequent new service offerings and enhancements by our customers, such as value-added IP-based services and new rating plans; and · changing customer needs. We believe that our future success will largely depend upon our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and successfully develop and market new products on a cost-effective and timely basis. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in developing and marketing new products that respond adequately to technological change. Our failure to do so would have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our own products. If our billing and customer care software for IP services fails to achieve market acceptance among traditional telecommunications service providers, we may suffer a decrease in market share, revenues and profitability. We believe that as the demand for IP services grows, traditional telecommunications service providers will increasingly offer IP services to remain competitive and these providers will constitute a growing portion of the IP services market. These companies already have relationships with traditional billing and customer care software providers for their telephony services, and may wish to work with their current providers of billing and customer care software to enhance and modify that software for IP services. If our billing and customer care software for IP services fails to achieve market acceptance among traditional telecommunications service providers, we may suffer a decrease in market share, revenues and profitability. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property or become subject to a claim of infringement, our business may be materially adversely affected. Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our internally developed or acquired technology. Any misappropriation of our technology could seriously harm our business. In order to protect our technology and products, we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright and trademark law. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our software or technology or to develop software with the same functionality. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our intellectual property rights as fully as in the United States. If anyone asserts a claim against us relating to proprietary technology or information, we might seek to license his intellectual property or to develop non-infringing technology. We might not be able to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms or on any terms. Alternatively, our efforts to develop non-infringing technology could be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other right or to develop non-infringing technology could prevent us from selling our software and could therefore seriously harm our business. Breaches in the security of the data collected by our systems could adversely affect our reputation and hurt our business. Customers rely on third-party security features to protect privacy and integrity of customer data. Our products may be vulnerable to breaches in security due to failures in the security mechanisms, the operating system, the hardware platform or the networks linked to the platform. All our solutions provide web access to information, presenting additional security issues for our customers. Security vulnerabilities could jeopardize the security of information stored in and transmitted through the computer systems of our customers. A party that is able to circumvent our security mechanisms could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in the operations of our customers. Security breaches could damage our reputation and product acceptance would be significantly harmed, which would cause our business to suffer. We are subject to ongoing costs and risks associated with complying with extensive corporate governance and disclosure requirements. As a foreign private issuer subject to U.S. federal securities laws, we spend a significant amount of management time and resources to comply with laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, SEC regulations and Nasdaq rules. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting and attestations of the effectiveness of these controls by our management and, commencing from fiscal year 2009, by our independent registered public accounting firm. There is no guarantee that these efforts will result in management assurance or an attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm that our internal control over financial reporting is adequate in future periods. In connection with our compliance with Section 404 and the other applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our management and other personnel devote a substantial amount of time, and we may need to hire additional accounting and financial staff, to assure that we continue to comply with these requirements. If we are unable to implement these requirements effectively or efficiently, or if our internal controls are found to be ineffective in future periods, it could harm our operations, financial reporting or financial results and could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report in internal controls from our independent auditor. Risks Relating to the Market of our Ordinary Shares Our share price has fluctuated and could continue to fluctuate significantly. The market for our ordinary shares, as well as the prices of shares of other technology companies, has been volatile. The price of our ordinary shares has fluctuated significantly since our initial public offering in August 2000. A number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, may cause the market price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate significantly, such as: · fluctuations in our quarterly revenues and earnings and those of our publicly held competitors; · shortfalls in our operating results from the levels forecast by securities analysts; · public announcements concerning us or our competitors; · changes in pricing policies by us or our competitors; · market conditions in our industry; and · the general state of the securities market (particularly the technology sector). We do not control these matters and any of them may adversely affect our business internationally. In addition, trading in shares of companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Market in general and trading in shares of technology companies in particular has been subjected to extreme price and volume fluctuations that have been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market and industry factors may depress our share price, regardless of our actual operating results. Substantial sales of our ordinary shares could adversely affect our share price. Sales of a substantial number of our ordinary shares could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. Given the likely volatility that exists for our ordinary shares, such sales could cause the market price of our ordinary shares to decline. As of June 1, 2008, we had 21,594,010 outstanding ordinary shares, which were freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws unless held by our “affiliates”, as that term is defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As of June 1, 2008, there were outstanding options to purchase a total of 853,410 ordinary shares, of which 606,510 were vested. We were also authorized to grant options to purchase 2,472,800 additional ordinary shares. We have filed a registration statement on Form S-8 covering all of the ordinary shares issuable upon the exercise of options under our stock option plans, at which time these shares will be immediately available for sale in the public market, subject to the terms of the related options. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading in more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are listed for trading on the Nasdaq Global Market, or Nasdaq, and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, or TASE. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on Nasdaq and New Israeli Shekels on TASE), and at different times (resulting from different time zones, different trading days and different public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets often differ, resulting from the factors described above, as well as differences in exchange rates. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Potential political, economic and military instability in Israel may harm our operating results. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel and a substantial portion of our assets and our principal operations, are located in Israel. Accordingly, our operations, financial position and operating results are directly influenced by economic, political and military conditions in and relating to Israel. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a condition of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Since October 2000, there has been a high level of violence between Israel and the Palestinians which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. Hamas, an Islamist movement responsible for many attacks against Israeli targets, won the majority of the seats in the Parliament of the Palestinian Authority in January 2006 and took control of the entire Gaza Strip by force in June 2007. These developments have led to frequent missile attacks on Israeli towns from the Gaza Strip, further straining relations between Israel and the Palestinian Authority. Further, in the summer of 2006, Israel fought a war against Hezbollah, a Lebanon-based Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region could negatively affect business conditions and harm our results of operations. We cannot predict the effect on the region of the increase in the degree of violence between Israel and the Palestinians. Furthermore, several countries restrict business with Israel and Israeli companies, and additional countries may restrict doing business with Israel and Israeli companies as a result of the recent increase in hostilities. These restrictive laws and policies may seriously harm our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. In addition, the current situation in Israel could adversely affect our operations if our customers and/or strategic allies believe that instability in the region could affect our ability to fulfill our commitments. We currently participate in or receive tax benefits from government programs. These programs require us to meet certain conditions and these programs and benefits may be terminated or reduced in the future. We receive tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments, the Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959, as amended, or the Investments Law, that are designated as “Approved Enterprises”. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet several conditions including making required investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions in the future, the tax benefits received could be cancelled. The termination or reduction of the tax benefits under the Investments Law could seriously harm our business, financial condition and operating results. For more information about Approved Enterprises, see Item 10.E “Taxation – Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959” and Note 9 to our financial statements contained in Item 18. Because we have received grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist, we are subject to on-going restrictions that limit the transferability of our funded technology and of our right to manufacture outside of Israel any products developed with such technology, and certain of our large shareholders are required to undertake to observe such restrictions. We have received grants in the past from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. According to Israeli law, generally, any products developed with grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist are required to be manufactured in Israel, unless we obtain prior approval of a governmental committee. In addition, we are prohibited from transferring out of Israel the know-how developed with these grants, without the prior approval of a governmental committee. Approval is not required for the sale or export of any products resulting from the funded know-how. Any shareholder who becomes a controlling shareholder of our company or any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our outstanding ordinary shares will be required to notify the Office of the Chief Scientist and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the Office of the Chief Scientist, the principal restrictions of which are described above in this paragraph. Our operating results may be negatively affected by the obligation of some of our key personnel to perform military service. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are obligated to perform military reserve duty, which could accumulate annually from several days to up to two months in special cases and circumstances. The length of such reserve duty depends, among other factors, on an individual’s age and prior position in the army. In addition, if a military conflict or war occurs, these persons could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service. Any disruption in our operations would harm our business. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel. We are incorporated in the State of Israel. Substantially most of our executive officers and directors are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel that it may be difficult to bring original actions in Israel to enforce civil liabilities under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a United States final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: · the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; · adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; · the judgment and the enforcement thereof are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; · the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and · an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the United States court. Therefore, it may be difficult for a shareholder, or any other person or entity, to collect a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of these persons, or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Provisions of Israeli law and our articles of association may delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore may depress the price of our stock. Some of the provisions of our articles of association and Israeli law could, together or separately: · discourage potential acquisition proposals; · delay or prevent a change in control; and · limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. In particular, our articles of association provide that our board of directors will be divided into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms and authorize our board of directors to adopt protective measures to prevent or delay a coercive takeover, including without limitation the adoption of a “Shareholder Rights Plan”. In addition, Israeli corporate law regulates mergers and acquisitions of shares through tender offers, requires approvals for transactions involving significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. See Item 10.B “Memorandum and Articles of Associations- Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law.” Furthermore, Israeli tax law treats stock-for-stock acquisitions between an Israeli company and a foreign company less favorably than does U.S. tax law. For example, Israeli tax law may subject a shareholder who exchanges his ordinary shares for shares in another corporation to taxation prior to the sale of the shares received in such stock-for stock swap. Item 