RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations Exploration and production of oil in deep and ultra-deep waters involves risks. Exploration and production of oil involves risks that are increased when carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters. The majority of our exploration and production activities are carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters, and the proportion of our deepwater activities will remain constant or increase due to the location of our pre-salt reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters. Our activities, particularly in deep and ultra-deep waters, present several risks, such as the risk of oil spills, explosions in platforms and drilling operations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these events or other incidents could result in personal injuries, loss of life, severe environmental damage with the resulting containment, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. Our insurance policies do not cover all liabilities, and insurance may not be available for all risks. There can be no assurance that incidents will not occur in the future, that insurance will adequately cover the entire scope or extent of our losses or that we will not be found liable in connection with claims arising from these and other events. International prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas may impact us differently than our competitors and may cause our results to differ from our competitors in periods of higher international prices. The majority of our revenue is derived primarily from sales of crude oil and oil products in Brazil and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. Changes in crude oil prices typically result in changes in prices for oil products and natural gas. Historically, international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas have fluctuated widely as a result of many factors. These factors include: · global and regional economic and geopolitical developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East and Africa; · the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain crude oil production levels and defend prices; · global and regional supply and demand for crude oil, oil products and natural gas; · global financial crises, such as the global financial crisis of 2008; · competition from other energy sources; · domestic and foreign government regulations; and · weather conditions. 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our pricing policy in Brazil is intended to be at parity with international product prices over the long term, but we do not adjust our prices for diesel, gasoline and LPG to immediately reflect price changes in the international markets. Significant and sustained decreases in the price of crude oil could have a negative impact on our revenues and may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures and investments, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserves estimates in the future. Thus, substantial or extended declines in international crude oil prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our proved reserves. When, however, we are a net importer by volume of oil and oil products, increases in the price of crude oil may have a negative impact on our costs of sales and margins if we are required to import oil and oil products to meet Brazilian demand, since the cost to acquire such products may exceed the selling price in Brazil. Additionally, material rapid or sustained increases in the international price of crude oil and oil products may also result in reduced downstream margins for us and negatively affect our results. We are also exposed to this risk during periods of depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar, as we sell oil and oil products in Brazil in reais and international prices for crude oil and oil products are set in U.S. dollars. A depreciation of the real reduces our prices in U.S. dollar terms. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production depends on our ability to successfully develop our reserves, and failure to do so could prevent us from achieving our long-term goals for growth in production. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production, including those defined in our 2011-2015 Business Plan, is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully develop our existing reserves and, in the long term, upon our ability to obtain additional reserves. The development of the sizable reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters, including the pre-salt reservoirs that have been assigned to us by the Brazilian federal government, has demanded and will continue to demand significant capital investments. A primary operational challenge, particularly for the pre-salt reservoirs, will be allocating our resources to build the necessary infrastructure at considerable distances from the shore and securing a qualified labor force and offshore oil services to develop reservoirs of such size and magnitude in a timely manner, a challenge that is particularly heightened by the fact that we are required to acquire a minimum level of goods and services from Brazilian providers. We cannot guarantee that we will have or will be able to obtain, in the time frame that we expect, sufficient resources necessary to exploit the reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters that the Brazilian federal government has licensed and assigned to us, or that it may license to us in the future, including as a result of the enactment of the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil. Our exploration activities also expose us to the inherent risks of drilling, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reserves. The costs of drilling wells are often uncertain, and numerous factors beyond our control (such as unexpected drilling conditions, equipment failures or incidents, and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment) may cause drilling operations to be curtailed, delayed or cancelled. These risks are heightened when we drill in deep and ultra-deep waters. In addition, increased competition in the oil and gas sector in Brazil may increase the costs of obtaining additional acreage in bidding rounds for new concessions. We may not be able to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities of our large reservoirs in a timely manner. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may not obtain, or it may be difficult for us to obtain, financing for our planned investments, which may have a material adverse effect on us. Under our 2011-2015 Business Plan, we intend to invest U.S.$224.7 billion between 2011 and 2015. In addition, approximately 27% of our existing debt, or U.S.$22.2 billion, will mature in the next three years. In order to implement our 2011-2015 Business Plan, including the development of our oil and natural gas exploration activities in the pre- and post-salt layers and the development of refining capacity sufficient to process increasing production volumes, we will need to raise significant amounts of debt capital in the financial and capital markets, including by, among other means, loans and issuing debt securities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing to implement our Business Plan and to roll-over our existing debt in a timely and advantageous manner in order to implement our 2011-2015 Business Plan. Our crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates involve some degree of uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report are our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made) according to applicable regulations. Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. There are uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves related to prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices applicable to our production, which may lead us to make revisions to our reserve estimates. Downward revisions in our reserve estimates could lead to lower future production, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not own any of the subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil. Under Brazilian law, the Brazilian federal government owns all subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil and the concessionaire owns the oil and gas it produces from those subsoil accumulations pursuant to concession agreements. We possess the exclusive right to develop the volumes of crude oil and natural gas included in our reserves pursuant to concession agreements awarded to us by the Brazilian federal government and we own the hydrocarbons we produce under those concession agreements. Access to crude oil and natural gas reserves is essential to an oil and gas company’s sustained production and generation of income, and our ability to generate income would be adversely affected if the Brazilian federal government were to restrict or prevent us from exploiting these crude oil and natural gas reserves. In addition, we may be subject to fines by the ANP and our concessions may be revoked if we do not comply with our obligations under our concessions. The Assignment Agreement we entered into with the Brazilian federal government is a related party transaction. The transfer of oil and gas exploration and production rights to us related to specific pre-salt areas is governed by the Assignment Agreement, which is a contract between the Brazilian federal government, our controlling shareholder, and us. The negotiation of the Assignment Agreement involved significant issues, including negotiations regarding (1) the area covered by the transfer of rights, consisting of exploratory blocks; (2) the price to be paid for the transfer of rights; and (3) the terms of the subsequent revision of the contract price and volume under the Assignment Agreement. 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS This contract includes provisions for a subsequent revision of the contract terms, which are subject to oil and industry prices at the time the revision is made. At the time the Assignment Agreement was negotiated, the initial contract price paid by us was based on an assumed Brent oil crude price of U.S.$80. Once the revision process is concluded pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement, if it is determined that the revised contract price is higher than the initial contract price, we will either make an additional payment to the Brazilian federal government or reduce the amount of barrels of oil equivalent subject to the Assignment Agreement. See Item 10. “Material contracts—Petrobras—Assignment Agreement.”Over the course of the life of the Assignment Agreement, novel issues may arise in the implementation of the revision process and other provisions that will require negotiations between related parties. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations and industry standards that are becoming more stringent and may result in increased capital and operating expenditures and decreased production. Our activities are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to the protection of human health, safety and the environment, both in Brazil and in other jurisdictions in which we operate, as well as to evolving industry standards and best practices. Particularly in Brazil, our oil and gas business is subject to extensive regulation by several governmental agencies, including the ANP, the ANEEL, the Brazilian Water Transportation Agency (Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários) and the Brazilian Land Transportation Agency (Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres). Failure to observe or comply with these laws and regulations could result in penalties that could adversely affect our operations. In Brazil, for example, we could be exposed to administrative and criminal sanctions, including warnings, fines and closure orders for non-compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations, which, among other things, limit or prohibit emissions or spills of toxic substances produced in connection with our operations. Waste disposal and emissions regulations may also require us to clean up or retrofit our facilities at substantial cost and could result in substantial liabilities. The Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources, or IBAMA) and the ANP routinely inspect our facilities, and may impose fines, restrictions on operations, or other sanctions in connection with its inspections, including unexpected, temporary production shutdowns. In addition, we are subject to environmental laws that require us to incur significant costs to cover damage that a project may cause to the environment. These additional costs may have a negative impact on the profitability of the projects we intend to implement or may make such projects economically unfeasible. As environmental, health and safety regulations become more stringent, and as new laws and regulations relating to climate change, including carbon controls, become applicable to us, and as industry standards evolve, it is probable that our capital expenditures and investments for compliance with such laws and regulations and industry standards will increase substantially in the future. In addition, if compliance with such laws and regulations and industry standards results in significant unplanned production shutdowns, this may have a material adverse effect on our production. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or renew our licenses and permits if they are revoked or if the applicable environmental authorities oppose or delay their issuance or renewal. Increased expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations, to mitigate the environmental impact of our operations or to restore the biological and geological characteristics of the areas in which we operate may result in reductions in other strategic investments. Any substantial increase in expenditures for compliance with environmental, health or safety regulations or reduction in strategic investments and significant decreases in our production from unplanned shutdowns may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS We may incur losses and spend time and money defending pending litigations and arbitrations. We are currently a party to numerous legal proceedings relating to civil, administrative, environmental, labor and tax claims filed against us. These claims involve substantial amounts of money and other remedies. Several individual disputes account for a significant part of the total amount of claims against us. See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” and Note 28 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for a description of the legal proceedings to which we are subject. In the event that claims involving a material amount and for which we have no provisions were to be decided against us, or in the event that the losses estimated turn out to be significantly higher than the provisions made, the aggregate cost of unfavorable decisions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation and administrative proceedings in connection with our concessions and other government authorizations, which could result in the revocation of such concessions and government authorizations. In addition, our management may be required to direct its time and attention to defending these claims, which could preclude them from focusing on our core business. Depending on the outcome, certain litigation could result in restrictions on our operations and have a material adverse effect on certain of our businesses. We are vulnerable to increased financing expenses resulting from increases in prevailing market interest rates and exchange rate fluctuation. Fluctuations in exchange rates, especially a depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar rate, may increase our financing expenses as most of our revenues have been denominated in reais, while some of our operating expenses and capital expenditures and investments and a substantial portion of our indebtedness are, and are expected to continue to be, denominated in or indexed to U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. As of December 31, 2011, approximately 55.9% — U.S.$45,905 million of our total indebtedness — consisted of floating rate debt. In light of cost considerations and market analysis, we decided not to enter into derivative contracts or make other arrangements to hedge against the risk of an increase in interest rates. Accordingly, if market interest rates rise, our financing expenses will increase, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we refinance our existing debt in the coming years, the mix of our indebtedness may change, specifically as it relates to the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates, the ratio of short-term to long-term debt, and the currencies in which our debt is denominated in or indexed to. We cannot assure you that such changes will not result in increased financing expenses borne by us. We are not insured against business interruption for our Brazilian operations and most of our assets are not insured against war or sabotage. We do not maintain coverage for business interruptions of any nature for our Brazilian operations, including business interruptions caused by labor action. If, for instance, our workers were to strike, the resulting work stoppages could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not insure most of our assets against war or sabotage. Therefore, an attack or an operational incident causing an interruption of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our international operations are subject to substantial risks. We operate in several countries, particularly in South America and West Africa. Political, economic and social instability in these countries can have a material adverse effect on us. The results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries in these countries may be adversely affected by fluctuations in their local economies, political instability and governmental actions relating to the economy, including: · the imposition of price controls; · the imposition of restrictions on hydrocarbon exports; · the fluctuation of local currencies against the real; · the nationalization of oil and gas reserves; · increases in export tax and income tax rates for crude oil and oil products; and · unilateral (governmental) institutional and contractual changes, including controls on investments and limitations on new projects. If one or more of the risks described above were to materialize we may lose part or all of our reserves in the affected country and we may not achieve our strategic objectives in these countries or in our international operations as a whole, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about our operations outside Brazil, see Item 4. “Information on the Company¾International.” Risks Relating to PifCo PifCo’s operations and debt servicing capabilities are dependent on us. PifCo’s financial position and results of operations are directly affected by our decisions. PifCo is a direct, wholly-owned finance subsidiary of Petrobras incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted company with limited liability. PifCo functions as a vehicle for us to raise capital for our operations through the issuance of debt securities in the international capital markets, among other means. PifCo’s ability to service and repay its indebtedness is consequently dependent on our own operations. Our support of PifCo’s debt obligations has been and will continue to be made through unconditional and irrevocable guaranties of payment. Our own financial condition and results of operations, as well as our financial support of PifCo, directly affect PifCo’s operational results and debt servicing capabilities. For a more detailed description of certain risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and therefore affect PifCo’s ability to meet its debt obligations, see “Risks Relating to Our Operations.” Risks Relating to Our Relationship with the Brazilian Federal Government The Brazilian federal government, as our controlling shareholder, may cause us to pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives that may have a material adverse effect on us. As our controlling shareholder, the Brazilian federal government has pursued, and may pursue in the future, certain of its macroeconomic and social objectives through us, as permitted by law. Brazilian law requires the Brazilian federal government to own a majority of our voting stock, and so long as it does, the Brazilian federal government will have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and, through them, a majority of the executive officers who are responsible for our day-to-day management. As a result, we may engage in activities that give preference to the objectives of the Brazilian federal government rather than to our own economic and business objectives. 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS In particular, we continue to assist the Brazilian federal government to ensure that the supply and pricing of crude oil and oil products in Brazil meets Brazilian consumption requirements. Accordingly, we may make investments, incur costs and engage in sales on terms that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Prior to January 2002, prices for crude oil and oil products were regulated by the Brazilian federal government, occasionally set below prices prevailing in the world oil markets. We cannot assure you that price controls will not be reinstated in Brazil. Our investment budget is subject to approval by the Brazilian federal government, and failure to obtain approval of our planned investments could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Brazilian federal government maintains control over our investment budget and establishes limits on our investments and long-term debt. As a state-controlled entity, we must submit our proposed annual budgets to the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management, the MME and the Brazilian Congress for approval. If our approved budget reduces our proposed investments and incurrence of new debt and we cannot obtain financing that does not require Brazilian federal government approval, we may not be able to make all the investments we envision, including those we have agreed to make to expand and develop our crude oil and natural gas fields. If we are unable to make these investments, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and may have a material adverse effect on us. The Brazilian federal government’s economic policies may have important effects on Brazilian companies, including us, and on market conditions and prices of Brazilian securities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors and the Brazilian federal government’s response to these factors: · devaluations and other exchange rate movements; · inflation; · exchange control policies; · price instability; · interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policy; · regulatory policy for the oil and gas industry, including pricing policy; and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian federal government will implement changes in policy or regulations that may affect any of the factors mentioned above or other factors in the future may lead to economic uncertainty in Brazil and increase the volatility of the Brazilian securities market and securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS Risks Relating to Our Equity and Debt Securities The size, volatility, liquidity and/or regulation of the Brazilian securities markets may curb the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs. Petrobras shares are among the most liquid in the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), but overall, the Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States and other jurisdictions, and may be regulated differently from the way in which U.S. investors are accustomed. Factors that may specifically affect the Brazilian equity markets may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs at the price and time they desire. The market for PifCo’s notes may not be liquid. Some of PifCo’s notes are not listed on any securities exchange and are not quoted through an automated quotation system. We can make no assurance as to the liquidity of or trading markets for PifCo’s notes. We cannot guarantee that the holders of PifCo’s notes will be able to sell their notes in the future. If a market for PifCo’s notes does not develop, holders of PifCo’s notes may not be able to resell the notes for an extended period of time, if at all. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs who are residents of the United States may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common or preferred shares relating to these preemptive rights, and therefore we may not file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and holders of ADSs will be entitled to receive the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the depositary cannot sell them. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association of Petrobras—Preemptive Rights.” If holders of our ADSs exchange their ADSs for common or preferred shares, they risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and forfeiting Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for our common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank of Brazil to be entitled to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends and other distributions relating to our preferred and common shares or upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares. If holders of ADSs decide to exchange their ADSs for the underlying common or preferred shares, they will be entitled to continue to rely, for five Brazilian business days from the date of exchange, on the custodian’s certificate of registration. After that period, such holders may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares, or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares, unless they obtain their own certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, of January 26, 2000, of the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional, or CMN), which entitles registered foreign investors to buy and sell on the BM&FBOVESPA. In addition, if such holders do not obtain a certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, they may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the common or preferred shares. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS If such holders attempt to obtain their own certificate of registration, they may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay their ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares or the return of their capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration or any foreign capital registration obtained by such holders may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes and we cannot assure such holders that additional restrictions applicable to them, the disposition of the underlying common or preferred shares, or the repatriation of the proceeds from the process will not be imposed in the future. Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or elsewhere outside Brazil. In addition, the rights of an ADS holder, which are derivative of the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to protect their interests against actions by our board of directors are different under Brazilian Corporate Law than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Rules against insider trading and self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may also be different in Brazil than in the United States. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. We are a state-controlled company organized under the laws of Brazil and all of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of ADSs to effect service of process upon us or our directors and officers within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain requirements are met, holders of ADSs may face greater difficulties in protecting their interest in actions against us or our directors and officers than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction of the United States. Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights and preferred shares and the ADSs representing preferred shares generally do not give holders of ADSs voting rights. Holders of ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of their rights as a shareholder if they hold our ADS rather than the underlying shares. For example, if we fail to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, holders of ADSs may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary on how to vote for them. In addition, a portion of our ADSs represents our preferred shares. Under Brazilian law and our bylaws, holders of preferred shares generally do not have the right to vote in meetings of our stockholders. This means, among other things, that holders of ADSs representing preferred shares are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions or decisions. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of Petrobras—Voting Rights” for a discussion of the limited voting rights of our preferred shares. We would be required to pay judgments of Brazilian courts enforcing our obligations under the guaranty relating to PifCo’s notes only in reais. If proceedings were brought in Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the guaranty relating to PifCo’s notes, we would be required to discharge our obligations only in reais. Under the Brazilian exchange control rules, an obligation to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais, which is payable in Brazil pursuant to a decision of a Brazilian court, may be satisfied in reais at the rate of exchange, as determined by the Central Bank of Brazil, in effect on the date of payment. 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS A finding that we are subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws and that the guaranty executed by us were a fraudulent conveyance could result in PifCo noteholders losing their legal claim against us. PifCo’s obligation to make payments on the PifCo notes is supported by our obligation under the corresponding guaranty. We have been advised by our external U.S. counsel that the guaranty is valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and the United States. In addition, we have been advised by our general counsel that the laws of Brazil do not prevent the guaranty from being valid, binding and enforceable against us in accordance with its terms. In the event that U.S. federal fraudulent conveyance or similar laws are applied to the guaranty, and we, at the time we entered into the relevant guaranty: · were or are insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of our entry into such guaranty; · were or are engaged in business or transactions for which the assets remaining with us constituted unreasonably small capital; or · intended to incur or incurred, or believed or believe that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature; and · in each case, intended to receive or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor, then our obligations under the guaranty could be avoided, or claims with respect to that agreement could be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. Among other things, a legal challenge to the guaranty on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us as a result of PifCo’s issuance of these notes. To the extent that the guaranty is held to be a fraudulent conveyance or unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the PifCo notes would not have a claim against us under the relevant guaranty and will solely have a claim against PifCo. We cannot assure you that, after providing for all prior claims, there will be sufficient assets to satisfy the claims of the PifCo noteholders relating to any avoided portion of the guaranty. Concerns regarding the European credit crisis and market perceptions with respect to both the financial stability of Eurozone countries and the stability of the euro could adversely affect the value of our euro notes and the general availability and cost of financing. There are persistent concerns regarding the debt burden of certain Eurozone countries and their ability to meet future financial obligations, the overall stability of the euro and the suitability of the euro to function as a single currency given the diverse economic and political circumstances in individual Eurozone countries. The risks and prevalent concerns about the credit crisis in Europe could have a detrimental impact on global economic recovery as well as on sovereign and non-sovereign debt in the Eurozone countries. There can be no assurance that the market disruptions in Europe will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize affected countries and markets in Europe or elsewhere. These and other concerns could lead to the re-introduction of individual currencies in one or more Eurozone countries, or, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the euro entirely. Should the euro dissolve entirely, the legal and contractual consequences for holders of euro-denominated obligations would be determined by laws in effect at such time. It is difficult to predict the real impact of the European sovereign crisis; however, to the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively impact the global economy, concerns regarding the effect of this financial crisis globally could also have an adverse impact on the capital and financial markets generally. These potential developments, or market perceptions concerning these and related issues, could negatively impact the value of our euro notes and the general availability and cost of financing. 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS 