Risk Factors—Risks Relating to Our Operations— The recent nationalization measures taken by the Bolivian and Venezuelan governments may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition” for a description of the risks associated with these nationalization measures. Deterioration of the situation in Argentina, Bolivia or Venezuela may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The recent nationalization measures taken by the Bolivian and Venezuelan governments may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Bolivian and Venezuelan governments have recently increased their participation in their respective domestic oil and gas industries, which may generate material losses to us. Our consolidated interests related to Bolivia include two refineries, oil and gas reserves, which represented approximately 2.7% of our total reserves at December 31, 2005 and our interest in the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline (GTB). We also hold a long-term gas supply agreement, or the GSA, for the purchase of natural gas from the Bolivian state oil company, Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos —YPFB. We have been operating in Bolivia since 1996. As of December 31, 2005, the book value of Bolivia assets were U.S.$990million. On May 1, 2006, the Bolivian government announced that it would nationalize several industries in the country, including the oil and gas industry. As a result, our interest in the two refineries and the oil and gas reserves in Bolivia will be reduced. We have 180 days to comply with the terms and conditions of the nationalization, and it is uncertain if and how we will be compensated for our losses. In 2005, the natural gas we imported from Bolivia represented approximately 53% of our total natural gas sales. We supply this natural gas to the Brazilian market, including local distribution companies and gas-fired power plants in which we have an interest. Our interests in Venezuela include oil and gas reserves, which represented approximately 2.3% of our total reserves at December 31, 2005. In April 2005, the Venezuelan Energy and Oil Ministry instructed PDVSA to review thirty-two operating agreements signed by PDVSA with oil companies from 1992 through 1997. In addition, PDVSA was instructed to take measures in order to convert all effective operating agreements into state-controlled companies in order to grant the Venezuelan government, through PDVSA, more than 50% ownership of each field, including agreements with our affiliates in connection with the areas of Oritupano Leona, La Concepcion, Acema and Mata. As a result, as of December 31, 2005, we recorded an impairment charge in order to adjust the book value of our Venezuelan assets in the amount of U.S.$134 million. In March 31, 2006, we, Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA) and Corporación Venezolana del Petróleo S.A. (CVP), entered into memorandums of understanding (MOUs) in order to effect the migration of the operating agreements to partially state-owned companies (“mixed 18 Table of Contents companies”), whereby the interest of PDVSA in each mixed company will be 60%. The economic effects of the migration are effective since April 1, 2006. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—International—Venezuelan Operations.” As a result of the foregoing, we currently cannot estimate the degree to which these nationalization measures will affect us, and believe they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to PIFCo PIFCo may not earn enough money from its own operations to meet its debt obligations. PIFCo is a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Petrobras incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted company with limited liability. Accordingly, PIFCo’s financial position and results of operations are largely affected by our decisions, as its parent company. PIFCo has limited operations consisting principally of the purchase of crude oil and oil products from third parties and the resale of those products to us, with financing for such operations provided by us as well as third-party credit providers. PIFCo also buys and sells crude oil and oil products from and to us, third parties and affiliates on a limited basis. PIFCo’s ability to pay interest, principal and other amounts due on its outstanding and future debt obligations will depend upon a number of factors, including: • our financial condition and results of operations; • the extent to which we continue to use PIFCo’s services for market purchases of crude oil and oil products; • our willingness to continue to make loans to PIFCo and provide PIFCo with other types of financial support; • PIFCo’s ability to access financing sources, including the international capital markets and third-party credit facilities; and • PIFCo’s ability to transfer its financing costs to us. In the event of a material adverse change in our financial condition or results of operations or in our financial support of PIFCo, PIFCo may not have sufficient funds to repay all amounts due on its indebtedness. See “Risks Relating to Our Operations “ for a more detailed description of certain risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and therefore affect PIFCo’s ability to meet its debt obligations. If Brazilian law restricts us from paying PIFCo in U.S. dollars, PIFCo may have insufficient U.S. dollar funds to make payments on its debt obligations. PIFCo obtains substantially all of its funds from our payments in U.S. dollars for crude oil that we purchase from PIFCo. In order to remit U.S. dollars to PIFCo, we must comply with Brazilian foreign exchange control regulations, including preparing specified documentation to be able to obtain U.S. dollar funds for payment to PIFCo. If Brazilian law were to impose additional restrictions, limitations or prohibitions on our ability to convert reais into U.S. dollars, PIFCo may not have sufficient U.S. dollar funds available to make payment on its debt obligations. Such restrictions could also have a material adverse effect on the Brazilian economy or our business, financial condition and results of operations. PIFCo may be limited in its ability to pass on its financing costs. PIFCo is principally engaged in the purchase of crude oil and oil products for sale to Petrobras, as described above. PIFCo regularly incurs indebtedness related to such purchases and/or obtain financing from us or 19 Table of Contents third-party creditors. At December 31, 2005, approximately 20% of PIFCo’s indebtedness was floating-rate debt denominated in U.S. dollars. All such indebtedness has the benefit of our standby purchase obligation or other support. PIFCo has historically passed on its financing costs to us by selling crude oil and oil products to us at a premium to compensate for its financing costs. Although we intend to continue this practice in the future, we cannot assure you that we will. PIFCo’s inability to transfer its financing costs to us could have a material adverse effect on PIFCo’s business and on its ability to meet its debt obligations in the long term. Risks Relating to the Relationship between us and the Brazilian Government The Brazilian government, as our controlling shareholder, may cause us to pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Brazilian government, as our controlling shareholder, has pursued, and may pursue in the future, certain of its macroeconomic and social objectives through us. Brazilian law requires the Brazilian government to own a majority of our voting stock, and so long as it does, the Brazilian government will have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and, through them, a majority of the executive officers who are responsible for our day-to-day management. As a result, we may engage in activities that give preference to the objectives of the Brazilian government rather than to our own economic and business objectives. In particular, we continue to assist the Brazilian government to ensure that the supply of crude oil and oil products in Brazil meets Brazilian consumption requirements. Accordingly, we may make investments, incur costs and engage in sales on terms that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the Brazilian government reinstates controls over the prices we can charge for crude oil and oil products, such price controls could affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, the Brazilian government set prices for crude oil and oil products in Brazil, often below prices prevailing in the world oil markets. These prices involved elements of cross-subsidy among different oil products sold in various regions in Brazil. The cumulative impact of this price regulation system on us is recorded as an asset on our balance sheet under the line item “Petroleum and Alcohol Account—Receivable from the Brazilian government.” The balance of the account at December 31, 2005 was U.S.$329 million. All price controls for crude oil and oil products ended on January 2, 2002, however, the Brazilian government could decide to reinstate price controls in the future as a result of market instability or other conditions. If this were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We do not own any of the crude oil and natural gas reserves in Brazil. A guaranteed source of crude oil and natural gas reserves is essential to an oil and gas company’s sustained production and generation of income. Under Brazilian law, the Brazilian government owns all crude oil and natural gas reserves in Brazil and the concessionaire owns the oil and gas it produces. We possess the exclusive right to develop our reserves pursuant to concession agreements awarded to us by the Brazilian government and we own the goods we produce under the concession agreements, but if the Brazilian government were to restrict or prevent us from exploiting these crude oil and natural gas reserves, our ability to generate income would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has historically exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Brazilian government’s economic policies may have important effects on Brazilian companies, including us, and on market conditions and prices of Brazilian securities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors and the Brazilian government’s response to these factors: 20 Table of Contents • devaluations and other exchange rate movements; • inflation; • exchange control policies; • social instability; • price instability; • energy shortages; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • tax policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Political instability may adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our securities. The performance of the Brazilian economy has historically been influenced by the domestic political scenario. Political crises have, in the past, affected the confidence of investors and of the general public and resulted in economic slowdowns, adversely affecting the market price of the shares of publicly-listed companies. The Brazilian Congress is currently conducting investigations on, among other matters, allegations related to contributions to political campaigns that were unaccounted for or not publicly disclosed, including contributions made to various important members of the current federal administration. Such allegations have resulted in the replacement of key ministers and occupied most of Congress’ agenda. In addition, some allegations implicated other companies controlled by the Brazilian government. If these investigations were to impact the confidence of the general public and/or of investors, or result in an economic slowdown in Brazil, our results of operations and the price of our shares could be adversely affected. Additionally, presidential elections in Brazil will take place in 2006 and we cannot assure you that the next administration will maintain the economic policies that were adopted by the current administration. The uncertainties relating to the election may impact the confidence of the general public and of investors and the price of our securities may be adversely affected. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and, consequently, may adversely affect the market value of our securities and financial condition. Our principal market is Brazil, which has, in the past, periodically experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation, along with governmental measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future measures, has had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. The annual rates of inflation, as measured by the National Wide Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA), have decreased from 2,477.15% in 1993 to 916.46% in 1994 and to 5.97% in 2000. The same index increased to 9.30% in 2003, before decreasing to 7.60% in 2004 and to 5.69% in 2005. Considering the historically high rates of inflation, Brazil may experience higher levels of inflation in the future. The lower levels of inflation experienced since 1995 may not continue. Future governmental actions, including actions to adjust the value of the real, could trigger increases in inflation, which may adversely affect our financial condition. 21 Table of Contents Access to international capital markets for Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in Brazil and other emerging economies, which may hurt our ability to finance our operations and the trading values of our securities. International investors generally consider Brazil to be an emerging market. As a result, economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, influence the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. As a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries in recent years (such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russian financial crisis in 1998 and the Argentine financial crisis that began in 2001), investors have viewed investments in emerging markets with heightened caution. These crises produced a significant outflow of U.S. dollars from Brazil, causing Brazilian companies to face higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, and impeding access to international capital markets. Increased volatility in securities markets in Latin American and in other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on the trading value of our securities. We cannot assure you that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us. Risks Relating to our Equity and Debt Securities The Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major U.S. and European securities markets and therefore you may have greater difficulty selling the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs The Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States and other jurisdictions, and are not as highly regulated or supervised. The relatively small capitalization and liquidity of the Brazilian equity markets may substantially limit your ability to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs at the price and time you desire. These markets may also be substantially affected by economic circumstances unique to Brazil, such as currency devaluations. The market for PIFCo’s notes may not be liquid. PIFCo’s notes are not listed on any securities exchange and are not quoted through an automated quotation system. We can make no assurance as to the liquidity of or trading markets for PIFCo’s notes. We cannot guarantee that the holders of PIFCo’s notes will be able to sell their notes in the future. If a market for PIFCo’s notes does not develop, holders of PIFCo’s notes may not be able to resell the notes for an extended period of time, if at all. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs that are residents of the United States may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common or preferred shares relating to these preemptive rights, and therefore we may not file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, Citibank N.A., as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the depositary cannot sell them. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association of Petrobras—Preemptive Rights.” You may not be able to sell your ADSs at the time or the price you desire because an active or liquid market for our ADSs may not be sustained. Our preferred ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since February 21, 2001, while our common ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since August 7, 2000. We cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our ADSs will be sustained on the New York Stock Exchange, where they are currently traded. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient 22 Table of Contents execution of buy and sell orders for investors. Liquidity of a securities market is often a function of the volume of the underlying shares that are publicly held by unrelated parties. We do not anticipate that a public market for our common or preferred shares will develop in the United States. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may impair your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds of any sale of, the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs and may impact our ability to service certain debt obligations, including standby purchase agreements we have entered into in support of PIFCo’s notes. The Brazilian government may impose temporary restrictions on the conversion of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil. Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose these restrictions whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to foresee a serious imbalance. The Brazilian government imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1990. Similar restrictions, if imposed, could impair or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of common or preferred shares from reais into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. The Brazilian government could decide to take similar measures in the future. In such a case, the depositary for the ADSs will hold the reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. The depositary will not invest the reais and will not be liable for the interest. Additionally, if the Brazilian government were to impose restrictions on our ability to convert reais into U.S. dollars, we would not be able to make payment on our dollar-denominated debt obligations. For example, any such restrictions could prevent us from making funds available to PIFCo, for payment of its debt obligations, certain of which are supported by us through standby purchase agreements. If you exchange your ADSs for common or preferred shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and forfeiting Brazilian tax advantages . The Brazilian custodian for our common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank of Brazil to be entitled to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends and other distributions relating to our preferred and common shares or upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares. If you decide to exchange your ADSs for the underlying common or preferred shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely, for five Brazilian business days from the date of exchange, on the custodian’s certificate of registration. After that period, you may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares, or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares, unless you obtain your own certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, of January 26, 2000, of the Conselho Monetário Nacional (National Monetary Council), which entitles registered foreign investors to buy and sell on the São Paulo Stock Exchange. In addition, if you do not obtain a certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, you may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the common or preferred shares. If you attempt to obtain your own certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration or any foreign capital registration obtained by you may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes and we cannot assure you that additional restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying common or preferred shares or the repatriation of the proceeds from disposition will not be imposed in the future. 23 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and because holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than those traditionally enjoyed by United States shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, your rights as an ADS holder, which are derivative of the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to protect your interests against actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well-defined under Brazilian Corporation Law than those under the laws of other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are considered crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosure may be less complete or informative than what may be expected of a U.S. public company. We are a state-controlled company organized under the laws of Brazil and all of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process upon us or our directors and officers within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain requirements are met, you may face greater difficulties in protecting your interest in actions against us or our directors and officers than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction of the United States. Preferred shares and the ADSs representing preferred shares generally do not give you voting rights. A portion of our ADSs represents our preferred shares. Under Brazilian law and our bylaws, holders of preferred shares generally do not have the right to vote in meetings of our stockholders. This means, among other things, that holders of ADSs representing preferred shares are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions or decisions. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of Petrobras—Voting Rights” for a discussion of the limited voting rights of our preferred shares. Enforcement of our obligations under the standby purchase agreement might take longer than expected. We have entered into standby purchase agreements in support of PIFCo’s obligations under its notes and indentures. Our obligation to purchase from the PIFCo noteholders any unpaid amounts of principal, interest and other amounts due under the PIFCo notes and the indenture applies, subject to certain limitations, irrespective of whether any such amounts are due at maturity of the PIFCo notes or otherwise. See “Additional Information—PIFCo Senior Notes—Standby Purchase Agreements” and “Additional Information—PIFCo Global Notes—Standby Purchase Agreements.” We have been advised by our counsel that the enforcement of the standby purchase agreement in Brazil against us, if necessary, will occur under a form of judicial process that, while similar, has certain procedural differences from those applicable to enforcement of a guarantee and, as a result, the enforcement of the standby purchase agreement may take longer than would otherwise be the case with a guarantee. We may not be able to pay our obligations under the standby purchase agreement in U.S. Dollars. Payments by us to PIFCo for the import of oil, the expected source of PIFCo’s cash resources to pay its obligations under the PIFCo notes, will not require approval by or registration with the Central Bank of Brazil. There may be other regulatory requirements that we will need to comply with in order to make funds available to 24 Table of Contents PIFCo. If we are required to make payments under the standby purchase agreement, Central Bank of Brazil approval will be necessary. Any approval from the Central Bank of Brazil may only be requested when such payment is to be remitted abroad by us, and will be granted by the Central Bank of Brazil on a case-by-case basis. It is not certain that any such approvals will be obtainable at a future date. In case the PIFCo noteholders receive payments in reais corresponding to the equivalent U.S. Dollar amounts due under PIFCo’s notes, it may not be possible to convert these amounts into U.S. Dollars. We will not need any prior or subsequent approval from the Central Bank of Brazil to use funds we hold abroad to comply with our obligations under the standby purchase agreement. We would be required to pay judgments of Brazilian courts enforcing our obligations under the standby purchase agreement only in reais. If proceedings were brought in Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the standby purchase agreement, we would be required to discharge our obligations only in reais. Under the Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais, which is payable in Brazil pursuant to a decision of a Brazilian court, may be satisfied in reais at the rate of exchange, as determined by the Central Bank of Brazil, in effect on the date of payment. A finding that we are subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws and that the standby purchase agreement executed by us was a fraudulent conveyance could result in PIFCo noteholders losing their legal claim against us. PIFCo’s obligation to make payments on the PIFCo notes is supported by our obligation under the standby purchase agreement to make payments on PIFCo’s behalf. We have been advised by our external U.S. counsel that the standby purchase agreement is valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and the United States. In addition, we have been advised by our general counsel that the laws of Brazil do not prevent the standby purchase agreement from being valid, binding and enforceable against us in accordance with its terms. In the event that U.S. federal fraudulent conveyance or similar laws are applied to the standby purchase agreement, and we, at the time we entered into the standby purchase agreement: • were or are insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of our entry into the standby purchase agreement; • were or are engaged in business or transactions for which the assets remaining with us constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur or incurred, or believed or believes that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature; and • in each case, intended to receive or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor, then our obligations under the standby purchase agreement could be avoided, or claims with respect to the standby purchase agreement could be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. Among other things, a legal challenge to the standby purchase agreement on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us as a result of PIFCo’s issuance of these notes. To the extent that the standby purchase agreement is held to be a fraudulent conveyance or unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the PIFCo notes would not have a claim against us under the standby purchase agreement and will solely have a claim against PIFCo. We cannot assure you that, after providing for all prior claims, there will be sufficient assets to satisfy the claims of the PIFCo noteholders relating to any avoided portion of the standby purchase agreement. 