RISK FACTORS Risk Factors Related to Our Financial Condition Our inability to generate sufficient cash flows, raise additional capital and actively manage our liquidity may impair our ability to execute our business plan, and result in our reducing or eliminating product development and commercialization efforts, reducing our sales and marketing efforts, and having to forego attractive business opportunities. At December 31, 2012, we had approximately $16.8 million of cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash (2011 - $10.0 million). Restricted cash of $3.8 million is held as partial security for standby letters of credit and letters of finance. There are uncertainties related to the timing and use of our cash resources and working capital requirements. These uncertainties include, among other things, the timing and volume of commercial sales and associated gross margins of our existing products and the development of markets for, and customer acceptance of, new products. To the extent possible, we attempt to limit the significance of these risks by: (i) continually monitoring our sales prospects; (ii) continually aiming to reduce product cost; and (iii) advancing our technology platforms and product designs. However, given that many of the above noted factors are outside of our control, we may not be able to accurately predict our necessary cash expenditures or obtain financing in a timely manner to cover any shortfalls. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows or obtain adequate additional financing which, given the current global economy and credit markets, is challenging, we may be unable to respond to the actions of our competitors or we may be prevented from executing our business plan, or conducting all or a portion of our planned operations. In particular, the development and commercialization of our products could be delayed or discontinued if we are unable to fund our research and product development activities or the development of our manufacturing capabilities. In addition, we may be forced to reduce our sales and marketing efforts or forego attractive business opportunities. The uncertain and unpredictable condition of the global economy could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations and consolidated financial condition, or our ability to accurately forecast our results, and it may cause a number of the risks that we currently face to increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration. While we continuously monitor the state of the broader economic climate and, particularly, the markets in which we operate, the uncertain and unpredictable condition of the current global economy and credit markets affects our outlook in three distinct ways. First, our products depend to some degree on general world economic conditions and activity. If the current condition of the economy declines or we experience a continued slow return to economic growth, demand for our products is not likely to increase significantly. Second, the current uncertain economic climate could adversely affect our ability to conduct normal day-to-day selling activities, which depend on the granting of short-term credit to a wide variety of purchasers and, particularly, the corresponding needs of those purchasers. Third, those purchasers have a corresponding need to finance purchases by accessing their own lines of credit, which could become increasingly difficult. If the current condition of the economy does not continue to improve, our business will likely be adversely affected. In the case of an economic decline or a sustained period of slow economic growth, we expect to experience significant difficulties on a number of fronts. As a result, we may face new risks as yet unidentified. In addition, a number of risks that we ordinarily face and that are further described herein may increase in likelihood, magnitude and duration. These risks include but are not limited to deferrals or reductions of customer orders, potential deterioration of our customers’ ability to finance purchases, reduced revenue, further deterioration in our cash balances and liquidity due to negative foreign currency exchange rates, and an inability to access capital markets. Our mix of revenues in the recent past does not reflect our current business strategy, it may be difficult to assess our business and future prospects. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we derived $27.5 million or 86% of revenues from our sales of hydrogen generation products and services and $4.3 million, or 14%, of our revenues from sales of power products and services. For the year ended December 31, 2011, we derived $19.7 million, or 83%, of revenues from our sales of hydrogen generation products and services, and $4.1 million, or 17%, of our revenues from sales of power products and services. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we derived $15.9 million, or 76%, of revenues from sales of power products and services. Our current business strategy is to develop, manufacture and sell hydrogen energy storage systems, hydrogen generation products and fuel cell power products in larger quantities. Because we have made limited sales of hydrogen energy storage systems and fuel cell power products to date, our historical operating data may be of limited value in evaluating our future prospects. However, an order received in the third quarter of 2012 increased the order backlog in the Power Sales segment by $35.6M which will shift the mix of revenues in the future and emphasizes our future prospects in the Power Sales segment. Page 5 Hydrogenics Corporation Because we expect to continue to incur net losses, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and the price of our common shares may decline. We have not generated positive net income since our inception. Our current business strategy is to develop a portfolio of hydrogen and fuel cell products with market leadership positions for each product. In so doing, we will continue to incur significant expenditures for general administrative activities, including sales and marketing and research and development. As a result of these costs, we will need to generate and sustain significantly higher revenues and positive gross margins to achieve and sustain profitability. We incurred a net loss for the year ended December 31, 2012 of $12.7 million, a net loss of $9.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, and a net loss of $6.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. Our accumulated deficit as at December 31, 2012 was $336.5 million, at December 31, 2011, it was $323.8 million, and, at December 31, 2010, it was $314.0 million. As noted above, our strategy to limit the significance of these risks and uncertainties is to execute a business plan aimed at increasing market penetration to achieve forecasted revenues, improving operating cash flows, continuing to invest in research and product development, entering into complementary markets, improving overall gross margins, and securing additional financing to fund our operations as needed. However, we expect to incur significant operating expenses over the next several years. As a result, we expect to incur further losses in 2013, and we may never achieve profitability. Accordingly, we may not be able to implement our business strategy and the price of our common shares may decline. Our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors and may cause the price of our common shares to decline. Our quarterly revenues and operating results have varied significantly in the past and are likely to vary in the future. These quarterly fluctuations in our operating performance result from the length of time between our first contact with a customer and the recognition of revenue from sales to that customer. Some of our products are highly engineered and many are still in development stages; therefore, the length of time between approaching a customer and delivering our products to that customer can span many quarterly periods. In many cases, a customer’s decision to buy our products and services may require the customer to change its established business practices and to conduct its business in new ways. As a result, we must educate customers on the use and benefits of our products and services. This can require us to commit significant time and resources without necessarily generating any revenues. Many potential customers may wish to enter into trial arrangements with us in order to use our products and services on a trial basis. The success of these trials may determine whether or not the potential customer purchases our products or services on a commercial basis. Potential customers may also need to obtain approval at a number of management levels and one or more regulatory approvals. This may delay a decision to purchase our products. The length and variability of the sales cycles for our products make it difficult to forecast accurately the timing and amount of specific sales and corresponding revenue recognition. The delay or failure to complete one or more large sales transactions could significantly reduce our revenues for a particular quarter. We may expend substantial funds and management effort during our sales cycle with no assurance that we will successfully sell our products. As a result, our quarterly operating results are likely to fluctuate significantly and we may fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, and the price of our common shares may decline. Page 6 Hydrogenics Corporation We currently depend on a relatively limited number of customers for a majority of our revenues and a decrease in revenue from these customers could materially adversely affect our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations. While our business plan and sales and marketing strategy contemplates a diverse base of future customers, to date a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for a majority of our revenues and we expect they will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Our four largest customers accounted for 32% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 (32% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, 40% of revenues for the year ended December 31, 2010). The identities of some of our largest customers have changed from year to year. Our arrangements with these customers are generally non-exclusive, have no volume commitments and are often on a purchase order basis. We cannot be certain customers who have accounted for significant revenue in past periods will continue to purchase our products and allow us to generate revenues. Accordingly, our revenue and results of operations may vary from period to period. We are also subject to credit risk associated with the concentration of our accounts receivable from these significant customers. If one or more of these significant customers were to cease doing business with us, significantly reduce or delay purchases from us, or fail to pay on a timely basis, our business, consolidated financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our operating results may be subject to currency fluctuation. Our monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the US dollar will give rise to a foreign currency gain or loss reflected in net income (loss). To the extent the Canadian dollar or the Euro strengthens against the US dollar, we may incur foreign exchange losses on our net consolidated monetary asset balance, which is denominated in those currencies. Such losses would be included in our financial results, and consequently, may have an adverse effect on our share price. As we currently have operations based in Canada and Europe, a significant portion of our expenses are in Canadian dollars and Euros. However, a significant part of our revenues are currently generated in US dollars and Euros, and we expect this will continue for the foreseeable future. In addition, we may be required to finance our European operations by exchanging Canadian dollars or US dollars into Euros. The exchange rates between the Canadian dollar, the US dollar and the Euro are subject to daily fluctuations in the currency markets and these fluctuations in market exchange rates are expected to continue in the future. Such fluctuations affect both our consolidated revenues as well as our consolidated costs. If the value of the US dollar weakens against the Canadian dollar or the Euro, the profit margin on our products may be reduced. Also, changes in foreign exchange rates may affect the relative costs of operations and prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the same market. While we continuously monitor foreign exchange fluctuations and review forecasted changes regularly, we currently have limited currency hedging through financial instruments. We carry a portion of our short-term investments in Canadian dollars and Euros. Our insurance may not be sufficient. We carry insurance that we consider adequate considering the nature of the risks and costs of coverage. We may not, however, be able to obtain insurance against certain risks or for certain products or other resources located from time to time in certain areas of the world. We are not fully insured against all possible risks, nor are all such risks insurable. Thus, although we maintain insurance coverage, such coverage may not be adequate. Certain external factors may affect the value of goodwill, which may require us to recognize an impairment charge. Goodwill arising from our acquisition of Stuart Energy in 2005 comprises approximately 11.9% of our total assets at December 31, 2012 (15.9% of our total assets at December 31, 2011, 16.2% of our total assets at December 31, 2010). Economic, market, legal, regulatory, competitive, customer, contractual and other factors may affect the value of goodwill. If any of these factors impair the value of these assets, accounting rules require us to reduce their carrying value and recognize an impairment charge. This would reduce our reported assets and earnings in the year the impairment charge is recognized. Page 7 Hydrogenics Corporation Risk Factors Related to Our Business and Industry Significant markets for fuel cell and other hydrogen energy products may never develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. This would significantly harm our revenues and may cause us to be unable to recover the losses we have incurred and expect to incur in the development of our products. Significant markets may never develop for fuel cell and other hydrogen energy products or they may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Any such delay or failure would significantly harm our revenues and we may be unable to recover the losses we have incurred and expect to continue to incur in the development of our products. If this were to occur, we may never achieve profitability and our business could fail. Fuel cell and other hydrogen energy products represent an emerging market, and whether or not end-users will want to use them may be affected by many factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: the emergence of more competitive technologies and products; other environmentally clean technologies and products that could render our products obsolete; the future cost of hydrogen and other fuels used by our fuel cell products; the future cost of the membrane electrode assembly used in our fuel cell products; the future cost of platinum group metals, a key catalyst used in our fuel cell and hydrogen generation products; the regulatory requirements of agencies, including the development of uniform codes and standards for fuel cell products, hydrogen refueling infrastructure and other hydrogen energy products; government support by way of legislation, tax incentives, policies or otherwise, of fuel cell technology, hydrogen storage technology and hydrogen refueling technology; the manufacturing and supply costs for fuel cell components and systems; the perceptions of consumers regarding the safety of our products; the willingness of consumers to try new technologies; the continued development and improvement of existing power technologies; and the future cost of fuels used in existing technologies. Hydrogen may not be readily available on a cost-effective basis, in which case our fuel cell products may be unable to compete with existing power sources and our revenues and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. If our fuel cell product customers are not able to obtain hydrogen on a cost-effective basis, we may be unable to compete with existing power sources and our revenues and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our fuel cell products require oxygen and hydrogen to operate. While ambient air can typically supply the necessary oxygen, our fuel cells rely on hydrogen derived from water or from fuels, such as natural gas, propane, methanol and other petroleum products. We manufacture and develop hydrogen generation systems called electrolyzers that use electricity to separate water into its constituent parts of hydrogen and oxygen. In addition, third parties are developing systems to extract, or reform, hydrogen from fossil fuels. Significant growth in the use of hydrogen powered devices, particularly in the motive power market, may require the development of an infrastructure to deliver the hydrogen. There is no guarantee that such an infrastructure will be developed on a timely basis or at all. Even if hydrogen is available for our products, if its price is such that electricity or power produced by our systems would cost more than electricity provided by other means, we may be unable to compete successfully. Changes in government policies and regulations could hurt the market for our products. The fuel cell and hydrogen industry is in its development phase and is not currently subject to industry specific government regulations in Canada, the European Union, the United States, as well as other jurisdictions, relating to matters such as design, storage, transportation and installation of fuel cell systems and hydrogen infrastructure products. However, given that the production of electrical energy has typically been an area of significant government regulation, we expect we will encounter industry specific government regulations in the future in the jurisdictions and markets in which we operate. For example, regulatory approvals or permits may be required for the design, installation and operation of stationary fuel cell systems under federal, state and provincial regulations governing electric utilities and motive power fuel cell systems under federal, state and provincial emissions regulations affecting automobile and truck manufacturers. To the extent there are delays in gaining such regulatory approval, our development and growth may be constrained. Furthermore, the inability of our potential customers to obtain a permit, or the inconvenience often associated with the permit process, could harm demand for fuel cell and other hydrogen products and, therefore, harm our business. Page 8 Hydrogenics Corporation Our business will suffer if environmental policies change and no longer encourage the development and growth of clean power technologies. The interest by automobile manufacturers in fuel cell technology has been driven in part by environmental laws and regulations. There is no guarantee these laws and regulations will not change and any such changes could result in automobile manufacturers abandoning their interest in fuel cell powered vehicles. In addition, if current laws and regulations are not kept in force, or if further environmental laws and regulations are not adopted, demand for vehicular fuel cells may be limited. The market for stationary and portable energy related products is influenced by federal, state and provincial government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry. Changes in regulatory standards or public policy could deter further investment in the research and development of alternative energy sources, including fuel cells and fuel cell products, and could result in a significant reduction in the potential market demand for our products. We cannot predict how changing government regulation and policies regarding the electric utility industry will affect the market for stationary and portable fuel cell systems. Although the development of alternative energy sources and, in particular, fuel cells, has been identified as a significant priority by many governments, we cannot be assured that governments will not change their priorities or that any such change would not materially affect our revenues and our business. If governments change their laws and regulations such that the development of alternative energy sources is no longer required or encouraged, the demand for alternative energy sources, such as our fuel cell products may be significantly reduced or delayed and our sales would decline. Lack of new government policies and regulations for the energy storage technologies could hurt the development of the Power-to-Gas market for our hydrogen energy storage products. One of the critical factors for Power-to-Gas project developers in securing project financing, or to justify the capital investment internally, is the ability to monetize a sufficient portion of the “diffused benefits” of the project. This may be accomplished through a contract mechanism or a combination of new market reforms such as provision of new ancillary services such as load following or ramping service, tariffs for renewable gas, and favourable electricity purchase provisions (eg. special exemption for transmission and network uplifts and other charges on wholesale power purchases). While Power-to-Gas demonstration projects are being built today, if new government regulations for large scale energy storage projects are not implemented, or are not sufficient to justify the investment by project developers, it would critically impede our ability to sell electrolyzers for commercial-scale Power-to-Gas into those markets. The development of uniform codes and standards for hydrogen powered vehicles and related hydrogen refueling infrastructure may not develop in a timely fashion, if at all. Uniform codes and standards do not currently exist for fuel cell systems, fuel cell components, hydrogen internal combustion engines or for the use of hydrogen as a vehicle fuel. Establishment of appropriate codes and standards is a critical element to allow fuel cell system developers, fuel cell component developers, hydrogen internal combustion engine developers, hydrogen infrastructure companies and hydrogen storage and handling companies to develop products that will be accepted in the marketplace. The development of hydrogen standards is being undertaken by numerous organizations. Given the number of organizations pursuing hydrogen codes and standards, it is not clear whether universally accepted codes and standards will occur in a timely fashion, if at all. We could be liable for environmental damages resulting from our research, development or manufacturing operations. Our business exposes us to the risk of harmful substances escaping into the environment, resulting in personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, and natural resource damage. Depending on the nature of the claim, our current insurance policies may not adequately reimburse us for costs incurred in settling environmental damage claims and, in some instances, we may not be reimbursed at all. Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations that govern environmental protection and human health and safety. These laws and regulations have changed frequently in the past and it is reasonable to expect additional more stringent changes in the future. Our operations may not comply with future laws and regulations and we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. If we fail to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations, government authorities may seek to impose fines and penalties on us, or to revoke or deny the issuance or renewal of operating permits, and private parties may seek damages from us. Under those circumstances, we might be required to curtail or cease operations, conduct site remediation or other corrective action, or pay substantial damage claims. Page 9 Hydrogenics Corporation We currently face and will continue to face significant competition from other developers and manufacturers of fuel cell power products and hydrogen generation systems. If we are unable to compete successfully, we could experience a loss of market share, reduced gross margins for our existing products and a failure to achieve acceptance of our proposed products. In our markets for hydrogen generation systems, we compete with a number of companies that develop and manufacture hydrogen generation products based on on-site water electrolysis and/or reforming technologies. We also compete with suppliers of hydrogen gas that deliver hydrogen to the customer’s site in tube trailers or cylinders or by pipeline. In many cases, these suppliers have established delivery infrastructure and customer relationships. In the commercial production of fuel cell power products, we compete with a number of companies that currently have fuel cell and fuel cell system development programs. We expect several of these competitors will be able to deliver competing products to certain markets before we do. While our strategy is the development of fuel cell and hydrogen generation technologies for sale to end-users, systems integrators, governments and market channel partners, many of our competitors are developing products specifically for use in particular markets. These competitors may be more successful in penetrating their specific markets than we are. In addition, an increase in the popularity of fuel cell power in particular market channels may cause certain of our customers to develop and produce some or all of the fuel cell technologies we are developing. Competition in the markets for fuel cell power modules and hydrogen generation equipment is significant and will likely persist and intensify over time. We compete directly and indirectly with a number of companies that provide products and services that are competitive with all, some or part of our products and related services. Many of our existing and potential competitors have greater brand name recognition and their products may enjoy greater initial market acceptance among our potential customers. In addition, many of these competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, distribution, service and other resources than we have and may also be better able to adapt quickly to customers’ changing demands and to changes in technology. While it is our strategy to continuously improve our products, if we are unable to do so, and if we cannot generate effective responses to our competitors’ brand power, product innovations, pricing strategies, marketing campaigns, partnerships, distribution channels, service networks and other initiatives, our ability to gain market share or market acceptance for our products could be limited, our revenues and our profit margins may suffer, and we may never become profitable. We face competition for fuel cell power products from developers and manufacturers of traditional technologies and other alternative technologies. Each of our target markets is currently served by manufacturers with existing customers and suppliers. These manufacturers use proven and widely accepted traditional technologies such as internal combustion engines and turbines, as well as coal, oil, gas and nuclear powered generators. Additionally, there are competitors working on developing technologies that use other types of fuel cells, energy storage technologies, hydrogen generation technologies and other alternative power technologies, advanced batteries and hybrid battery/internal combustion engines, which may compete for our target customers. Given that PEM fuel cells and electrolyzers have the potential to replace these existing power sources, competition in our target markets will also come from these traditional power technologies, from improvements to traditional power technologies and from new alternative power technologies, including other types of fuel cells. Page 10 Hydrogenics Corporation If we are unable to continuously improve our products and if we cannot generate effective responses to incumbent and/or alternative energy competitors’ brand power, product innovations, pricing strategies, marketing campaigns, partnerships, distribution channels, service networks and other initiatives, our ability to gain market share or market acceptance for our products could be limited, our revenues and our profit margins may suffer, and we may never become profitable. Our strategy for the sale of fuel cell power products depends on developing partnerships with OEMs, governments, systems integrators, suppliers and other market channel partners who will incorporate our products into theirs. Other than in a few specific markets, our strategy is to develop and manufacture products and systems for sale to OEMs, governments, systems integrators, suppliers and other market channel partners that have mature sales and distribution networks for their products. Our success may be heavily dependent on our ability to establish and maintain relationships with these partners who will integrate our fuel cell products into their products and on our ability to find partners who are willing to assume some of the research and development costs and risks associated with our technologies and products. Our performance may, as a result, depend on the success of other companies, and there are no assurances of their success. We can offer no guarantee that OEMs, governments, systems integrators, suppliers and other market channel partners will manufacture appropriate products or, if they do manufacture such products, that they will choose to use our products as components. The end products into which our fuel cell technology will be incorporated will be complex appliances comprising many components and any problems encountered by such third parties in designing, manufacturing or marketing their products, whether or not related to the incorporation of our fuel cell products, could delay sales of our products and adversely affect our financial results. Our ability to sell our products to the OEM markets depends to a significant extent on our partners’ worldwide sales and distribution networks and service capabilities. In addition, some of our agreements with customers and partners require us to provide shared intellectual property rights in certain situations, and there can be no assurance that any future relationships we enter into will not require us to share some of our intellectual property. Any change in the fuel cell, hydrogen or alternative fuel strategies of one of our partners could have a material adverse effect on our business and our future prospects. In addition, in some cases, our relationships are governed by a non-binding memorandum of understanding or a letter of intent. We cannot provide the assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate and execute definitive agreements with any of these partners, and failure to do so may effectively terminate the relevant relationship. We also have relationships with third party distributors who also indirectly compete with us. For example, we have targeted industrial gas suppliers as distributors of our hydrogen generators. Because industrial gas suppliers currently sell hydrogen in delivered form, adoption by their customers of our hydrogen generation products could cause them to experience declining demand for delivered hydrogen. For this reason, industrial gas suppliers may be reluctant to purchase our hydrogen generators. In addition, our third party distributors may require us to provide volume price discounts and other allowances, or customize our products, either of which could reduce the potential profitability of these relationships. We are dependent on third party suppliers for key materials and components for our products. If these suppliers become unable or unwilling to provide us with sufficient materials and components on a timely and cost-effective basis, we may be unable to manufacture our products cost-effectively or at all, and our revenues and gross margins would suffer. We rely on third party suppliers to provide key materials and components for our fuel cell power products and hydrogen generation products. While we undertake due diligence before engaging with a supplier, a supplier’s failure to provide materials or components in a timely manner, or to provide materials and components that meet our quality, quantity or cost requirements, or our inability to obtain substitute sources for these materials and components in a timely manner or on terms acceptable to us, may harm our ability to manufacture our products cost-effectively or at all, and our revenues and gross margins might suffer. To the extent we are unable to develop and patent our own technology and manufacturing processes and, to the extent that the processes our suppliers use to manufacture materials and components are proprietary, we may be unable to obtain comparable materials or components from alternative suppliers and that could adversely affect our ability to produce commercially viable products. Page 11 Hydrogenics Corporation We may not be able to manage successfully the anticipated expansion of our operations. The uneven pace of our anticipated expansion in facilities, staff and operations may place serious demands on our managerial, technical, financial and other resources. We may be required to make significant investments in our engineering and logistics systems and our financial and management information systems, as well as retaining, motivating and effectively managing our employees. While we continually monitor our sales outlook and adjust our business plans as necessary, our management skills and systems currently in place may not enable us to implement our strategy or to attract and retain skilled management, engineering and production personnel. Our failure to manage our growth effectively or to implement our strategy in a timely manner may significantly harm our ability to achieve profitability. If we do not properly manage foreign sales and operations, our business could suffer. We expect that a substantial portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from foreign sales. Our international activities may be subject to inherent risks, including regulatory limitations restricting or prohibiting the provision of our products and/or services, unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs, customs, duties and other trade barriers, difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, foreign exchange controls that restrict or prohibit repatriation of funds, technology export and/or import restrictions or prohibitions, delays from customs brokers or government agencies, seasonal reductions in business activity and potentially adverse tax consequences resulting from operating in multiple jurisdictions. While we aim to employ experienced knowledgeable management in our foreign operations, if we do not properly manage foreign operations, our business could suffer. We will need to recruit, train and retain key management and other qualified personnel to successfully expand our business. Our future success will depend in large part on our ability to recruit and retain experienced research and development, engineering, manufacturing, operating, sales and marketing, customer service and management personnel. We compete in emerging markets and there are a limited number of people with the appropriate combination of skills needed to provide the services our customers require. In the past, we have experienced difficulty in recruiting qualified personnel and we expect to experience continued difficulties in personnel recruiting. If we do not attract such personnel, we may not be able to expand our business. In addition, new employees generally require substantial training, which requires significant resources and management attention. Our success also depends on retaining our key management, research, product development, engineering, marketing and manufacturing personnel. Even if we invest significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be successful in our efforts. We may acquire technologies or companies in the future, and these acquisitions could disrupt our business and dilute our shareholders’ interests. We may acquire additional technologies or other companies in the future and we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to successfully integrate their operations or that the cost savings we anticipate will be fully realized. Entering into an acquisition or investment entails many risks, any of which could materially harm our business, including: diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns; failure to effectively assimilate the acquired technology, employees or other assets into our business; the loss of key employees from either our current business or the acquired business; and the assumption of significant liabilities of the acquired company. If we complete additional acquisitions, we may dilute the ownership of current shareholders. In addition, achieving the expected returns and cost savings from our past and future acquisitions will depend in part on our ability to integrate the products and services, technologies, research and development programs, operations, sales and marketing functions, finance, accounting and administrative functions, and other personnel of these businesses into our business in an efficient and effective manner. We cannot ensure we will be able to do so or that the acquired businesses will perform at anticipated levels. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our anticipated revenues may be lower and our operational costs may be higher. Page 12 Hydrogenics Corporation We have no experience manufacturing our fuel cell products on a large scale basis and if we do not develop adequate manufacturing processes and capabilities to do so in a timely manner, we will be unable to achieve our growth and profitability objectives. We have manufactured most of our products in our Power Systems segment for prototypes and initial sales, and we have limited experience manufacturing products on a larger scale. We have experience manufacturing products on a larger scale in our Generation segment. In order to produce certain of our products at affordable prices, we will have to manufacture a large volume of such products. While several members of our senior management team have significant experience in developing high volume manufacturing strategies for new products and while we have developed plans for efficient, low-cost manufacturing capabilities and processes that will enable us to meet the quality, price, engineering, design and production standards or production volumes required to successfully mass market such products, we do not know whether these plans will be implemented such that they will satisfy the requirements of our customers and the market for the Power Systems segment. Our failure to develop these manufacturing processes and capabilities in a timely manner could prevent us from achieving our growth and profitability objectives. Risk Factors Related to Our Products and Technology We may never complete the development of commercially viable fuel cell power products and/or commercially viable hydrogen generation systems for new hydrogen energy applications, and if we fail to do so, we will not be able to meet our business and growth objectives. We have made commercial sales of fuel cell power modules, integrated fuel cell systems, hydrogen refueling stations and hydrogen energy storage systems for a relatively short period of time. Because both our business and industry are still in the developmental stage, we do not know when or whether we will successfully complete research and development of commercially viable fuel cell power products and commercially viable hydrogen generation equipment for new hydrogen energy applications. If we do not complete the development of such commercially viable products, we will be unable to meet our business and growth objectives. We expect to face unforeseen challenges, expenses and difficulties as a developing company seeking to design, develop and manufacture new products in each of our targeted markets. Our future success also depends on our ability to effectively market fuel cell products and hydrogen generation products once developed. We must lower the cost of our fuel cell and hydrogen generation products and demonstrate their reliability or consumers will be unlikely to purchase our products and we will therefore not generate sufficient revenues to achieve and sustain profitability. While we have significantly reduced the cost of our technology and products in the past few years and we are continuously seeking and implementing additional product and manufacturing cost reductions, fuel cells currently cost more than many established competing technologies, such as internal combustion engines and batteries. The prices of fuel cell and hydrogen generation products are dependent largely on material and manufacturing costs. We cannot guarantee we will be able to lower these costs to a level where we will be able to produce a competitive product or that any product we produce using lower cost materials and manufacturing processes will not suffer from lower performance, reliability and longevity. If we are unable to produce fuel cell and hydrogen generation products that are competitive with other technologies in terms of price, performance, reliability and longevity, consumers will be unlikely to buy our fuel cell and hydrogen generation products. Accordingly, we would not be able to generate sufficient revenues with positive gross margins to achieve and sustain profitability. Any failures or delays in field tests of our products could negatively affect our customer relationships and increase our manufacturing costs. We regularly field test our products and we plan to conduct additional field tests in the future. While we dynamically manage the execution and results of these tests, any failures or delays in our field tests could harm our competitive position and impair our ability to sell our products. Our field tests may encounter problems and delays for a number of reasons, including the failure of our technology, the failure of the technology of others, the failure to combine these technologies properly, operator error and the failure to maintain and service the test prototypes properly. Many of these potential problems and delays are beyond our control. In addition, field test programs, by their nature, may involve delays relating to product roll-out and modifications to product design, as well as third party involvement. Any problem or perceived problem with our field tests, whether it originates from our technology, our design, or third parties, could damage our reputation and the reputation of our products and limit our sales. Such field test failures may negatively affect our relationships with customers, require us to extend field testing longer than anticipated before undertaking commercial sales and require us to develop further our technology to account for such failures prior to the field tests, thereby increasing our manufacturing costs. Page 13 Hydrogenics Corporation The components of our products may contain defects or errors that could negatively affect our customer relationships and increase our development, service and warranty costs. Our products are complex and must meet the stringent technical requirements of our customers. The software and other components used in our fuel cell and hydrogen generation products may contain undetected defects or errors, especially when first introduced, which could result in the failure of our products to perform, damage to our reputation, delayed or lost revenue, product returns, diverted development resources and increased development, service and warranty costs. Rapid technological advances or the adoption of new codes and standards could impair our ability to deliver our products in a timely manner and, as a result, our revenues would suffer. While we actively and continuously monitor the developing markets and regulations in markets for our products, our success depends in large part on our ability to keep our products current and compatible with evolving technologies, codes and standards. Unexpected changes in technology or in codes and standards could disrupt the development of our products and prevent us from meeting deadlines for the delivery of products. If we are unable to keep pace with technological advancements and adapt our products to new codes and standards in a timely manner, our products may become uncompetitive or obsolete and our revenues would suffer. We depend on intellectual property and our failure to protect that intellectual property could adversely affect our future growth and success. While we proactively and regularly review our intellectual property protection strategy, failure to protect our intellectual property rights may reduce our ability to prevent others from using our technology. We rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws to protect our intellectual property. Some of our intellectual property is currently not covered by any patent or patent application. Patent protection is subject to complex factual and legal criteria that may give rise to uncertainty as to the validity, scope and enforceability of a particular patent. Accordingly, we cannot be assured that: any of the United States, Canadian or other patents owned by us or third party patents licensed to us will not be invalidated, circumvented, challenged, rendered unenforceable, or licensed to others; or any of our pending or future patent applications will be issued with the breadth of protection that we seek, if at all. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited, not applied for, or unenforceable in foreign countries. Furthermore, although we typically retain sole ownership of the intellectual property we develop, in certain circumstances, such as with Dow Corning and General Motors, we provide for shared intellectual property rights. We have also entered into agreements with other customers and partners that involve shared intellectual property rights. Any developments made under these agreements will be available for future commercial use by all parties to the agreement. We also seek to protect our proprietary intellectual property through contracts including, when possible, confidentiality agreements and inventors’ rights agreements with our customers and employees. We cannot be sure that the parties who enter into such agreements with us will not breach them, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach or that such persons or institutions will not assert rights to intellectual property arising out of these relationships. If necessary or desirable, we may seek licences under the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. However, we cannot be sure we will obtain such licences or that the terms of any offered licences will be acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain a licence from a third party for intellectual property we use in the future could cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend the manufacture and shipment of products or our use of processes that exploit such intellectual property. Page 14 Hydrogenics Corporation Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could negatively affect our business. Our future success and competitive position depend in part on our ability to obtain or maintain the proprietary intellectual property used in our principal products. In order to establish and maintain such a competitive position, we may need to prosecute claims against others who we believe are infringing our rights and defend claims brought by others who believe we are infringing their rights. Our involvement in intellectual property litigation could result in significant expense to us, adversely affect the sale of any products involved or the use or licensing of related intellectual property and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel from their principal responsibilities, regardless of whether such litigation is resolved in our favour. If we are found to be infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, we may, among other things, be required to: pay substantial damages; cease the development, manufacture, use, sale or importation of products that infringe on such intellectual property rights; discontinue processes incorporating the infringing technology; expend significant resources to develop or acquire non-infringing intellectual property; or obtain licences to the relevant intellectual property. We cannot offer any assurance we will prevail in any such intellectual property litigation or, if we were not to prevail in such litigation that licences to the intellectual property we are found to be infringing on would be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The cost of intellectual property litigation as well as the damages, licensing fees or royalties that we might be required to pay could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our products use flammable fuels that are inherently dangerous substances and could subject us to product liabilities. While it is a key focus of management to develop and manufacture safe and reliable products, our financial results could be materially impacted by accidents involving either our products or those of other fuel cell manufacturers, either because we face claims for damages or because of the potential negative impact on demand for fuel cell products. Our products use hydrogen, which is typically generated from gaseous and liquid fuels, such as propane, natural gas or methanol, in a process known as reforming. While our fuel cell products do not use these fuels in a combustion process, natural gas, propane and other hydrocarbons are flammable fuels that could leak and then combust if ignited by another source. In addition, certain of our OEM partners and customers may experience significant product liability claims. As a supplier of products and systems to these OEMs, we face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims in the event our products, or the equipment into which our products are incorporated, malfunction and result in personal injury or death. We may be named in product liability claims even if there is no evidence our systems or components caused the accidents. Product liability claims could result in significant losses from expenses incurred in defending claims or the award of damages. Since our products have not yet gained widespread market acceptance, any accidents involving our systems, those of other fuel cell products or those used to produce hydrogen could materially impede acceptance of our products. In addition, although our management believes our liability coverage is currently adequate to cover these risks, we may be held responsible for damages beyond the scope of our insurance coverage. Risk Factors Related to Ownership of Our Common Shares If at any time we are classified as a passive foreign investment company under United State tax laws, our US shareholders may be subject to adverse tax consequences. We would be classified as a passive foreign investment company (“PFIC”), for US federal income tax purposes, in any taxable year in which, after applying relevant look-through rules with respect to the income and assets of our subsidiaries, either at least 75% of our gross income is ‘‘passive income,’’ or on average at least 50% of the gross value of our assets is attributable to assets that produce passive income or are held for the production of passive income. Page 15 Hydrogenics Corporation Based on our structure, and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2012 or the prior taxable year. However, there can be no assurance the Internal Revenue Service will not successfully challenge our position or that we will not become a PFIC in a future taxable year, as PFIC status is retested each year and depends on our assets and income in that year. If we are classified as a PFIC at any time that a US shareholder holds our common shares, such shareholder may be subject to an increased US federal income tax liability and a special interest charge in respect of a gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of our common shares and upon the receipt of certain ‘‘excess distributions’’ (as defined in the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended). US shareholders should consult their own tax advisors concerning the US federal income tax consequences of holding our common shares if we were a PFIC in any taxable year and its potential application to their particular situation. As a result of the strategic alliance entered into with CommScope and Enbridge, they own a significant portion of our common shares and may act, or prevent corporate actions, to the detriment of other shareholders. As at December 31, 2012, CommScope owns 28.1% of our issued and outstanding common shares and Enbridge owns 13.9% of our issued and outstanding common shares. Accordingly, CommScope and Enbridge may have the ability to exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval. This concentration could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that could otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. A limited number of shareholders collectively own a significant portion of our common shares and may act, or prevent corporate actions, to the detriment of other shareholders. A limited number of shareholders, including our founders, CommScope, Enbridge, and General Motors, currently own a significant portion of our outstanding common shares. CommScope currently owns approximately 28.1% of our outstanding common shares. Enbridge currently owns approximately 13.9% of our outstanding common shares. General Motors currently owns approximately 5.9% of our outstanding common shares. In addition, Alpha currently holds 62,178 Series A warrants (representing the right to acquire the equivalent number of common shares) and 130,323 Series B warrants of the Corporation (representing the right to acquire the equivalent number of common shares), and Iroquois currently holds 79,678 Series A warrants and 130,323 Series B warrants. Accordingly, these shareholders may exercise significant influence over all matters requiring shareholder approval, including the election of a majority of our directors and the determination of significant corporate actions. This concentration could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control that could otherwise be beneficial to our shareholders. CommScope and Enbridge, as significant shareholders and parties to strategic alliances with us, and General Motors, with a representative on our Board of Directors, have the ability to influence our corporate actions and in a manner that may be adverse to other shareholder interests. If we fail to maintain the requirements for continued listing on Nasdaq, our common shares could be delisted from trading on Nasdaq, which would materially adversely affect the liquidity of our common shares, the price of our common shares, and our ability to raise additional capital. Failure to meet the applicable continued listing requirements of Nasdaq could result in our common shares being delisted from Nasdaq. In the past we have been unable to meet the Nasdaq requirements for continued listing on the Nasdaq Global Market for certain periods of time, and though we have regained compliance of such requirements, we may not be able to meet the requirements in the future. On September 18, 2012, we received notices from Nasdaq informing us that we failed to maintain a market value of listed securities of at least $50.0 million for 30 consecutive business days, in addition to the fact that we did not meet the minimum $50.0 million total assets and total revenues standard under Nasdaq Listing Rule 5450(b)(3)(A). We were given 180 days to regain compliance by having our market capitalization exceed $50.0 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days prior to the end of the 180-day period. We regained compliance on December 10, 2012. Page 16 Hydrogenics Corporation If we fail to satisfy Nasdaq’s continued listing requirements, our common shares could be delisted from Nasdaq, in which case we may transfer to the Nasdaq Capital Market, which generally has lower financial requirements for initial listing or, if we fail to meet its listing requirements, the over-the-counter bulletin board. However, there can be no assurance that our common shares will be eligible for trading on any such alternative exchanges or markets in the United States. If we are delisted from Nasdaq, it could materially reduce the liquidity of our common shares, lower the price of our common shares, and impair our ability to raise financing. Future sales of common shares by our principal shareholders could cause our share price to fall and reduce the value of a shareholder’s investment. If our principal shareholders, including our founders, sell substantial amounts of their common shares in the public market, the market price of our common shares could fall and the value of a shareholder’s investment could be reduced. The perception among investors that these sales may occur could have a similar effect. Share price declines may be exaggerated if the low trading volume that our common shares have experienced to date continues. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our common shares or other securities. Our articles of incorporation authorize us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred shares. Significant issuances of common or preferred shares could dilute the share ownership of our shareholders, deter or delay a takeover of us that our shareholders may consider beneficial or depress the trading price of our common shares. Our articles of incorporation permit us to issue an unlimited number of common and preferred shares. If we were to issue a significant number of common shares, it would reduce the relative voting power of previously outstanding shares. Such future issuances could be at prices less than our shareholders paid for their common shares. If we were to issue a significant number of common or preferred shares, these issuances could also deter or delay an attempted acquisition of us that a shareholder may consider beneficial, particularly, in the event that we issue preferred shares with special voting or dividend rights. While NASDAQ and Toronto Stock Exchange rules may require us to obtain shareholder approval for significant issuances, we would not be subject to these requirements if we ceased, voluntarily or otherwise, to be listed on NASDAQ and the Toronto Stock Exchange. Significant issuances of our common or preferred shares, or the perception that such issuances could occur, could cause the trading price of our common shares to drop. US investors may not be able to enforce US civil liability judgments against us or our directors and officers. We are organized under the laws of Canada. A majority of our directors and officers are residents of Canada and all or a substantial portion of their assets and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for US holders of our common shares to effect service of process on these persons within the United States or to realize in the United States on judgments rendered against them. In addition, a shareholder should not assume that the courts of Canada: (i) would enforce the judgments of US courts obtained in actions against us or such persons predicated on the civil liability provisions of US federal securities laws or other laws of the United States; or (ii) would enforce, in original actions, claims against us or such persons predicated on the US federal securities laws. Our share price is volatile and we may continue to experience significant share price and volume fluctuations. Since our common shares were initially offered to the public in November 2000, the stock markets, particularly in the technology and alternative energy sectors, and our share price have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. Our common shares may continue to experience volatility for reasons unrelated to our own operating performance, including: performance of other companies in the fuel cell or alternative energy business; news announcements, securities analysts’ reports and recommendations and other developments with respect to our industry or our competitors; or changes in general economic conditions. Page 17 Hydrogenics Corporation As at December 31, 2012 there were 526,519 stock options to purchase our common shares, 141,856 Series A warrants, 260,646 Series B warrants and 124,085 DSUs. If these securities are exercised, our shareholders will incur substantial dilution. A significant element in our business plan to attract and retain qualified personnel is the issuance to such persons options to purchase our common shares. At December 31, 2012, we have issued and have outstanding 526,519 options to purchase our common shares at an average price of CA$9.71 per common share. Accordingly, to the extent that we are required to issue significant numbers of options to our employees, and such options are exercised, our shareholders could experience significant dilution. As of December 31, 2012, we also have 141,856 Series A warrants and 260,646 Series B warrants issued and outstanding, whereby each warrant entitles the holder to purchase a common share for US$3.76. As of December 31, 2012, we also have 124,085 deferred share units (“DSUs”), whereby at the option of the holder, once vested they may be converted to common shares. To the extent such Series A warrants, Series B warrants, and DSUs are exercised, our shareholders could experience significant dilution. Page 18 Hydrogenics Corporation 