RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations Exploration and production of oil in deep and ultra-deep waters involves risks. Exploration and production of oil involves risks that are increased when carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters. The majority of our exploration and production activities are carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters, and the proportion of our deepwater activities will remain constant or increase due to the location of our pre-salt reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters. Our activities, particularly deep and ultra-deep water drilling, present several risks such as the risk of spills, explosions in platforms and drilling operations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these events or other incidents could result in personal injuries, loss of life, severe environmental damage with the resulting containment, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. Our insurance policies do not cover all liabilities, and insurance may not be available for all risks. There can be no assurance that incidents will not occur in the future, that insurance will adequately cover the entire scope or extent of our losses or that we will not be found liable in connection with claims arising from these and other events. Substantial or extended declines and volatility in the international prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas as well as a significant depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar may have a material adverse effect on us. The majority of our revenue is derived primarily from sales of crude oil and oil products and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. We do not, and will not, have control over the factors affecting international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas. Changes in crude oil prices typically result in changes in prices for oil products and natural gas. Historically, international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas have fluctuated widely as a result of many factors. These factors include: • global and regional economic and geopolitical developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain crude oil production levels and defend prices; • global and regional supply and demand for crude oil, oil products and natural gas; • global financial crises, such as the global financial crisis of 2008; • competition from other energy sources; • domestic and foreign government regulations; and • weather conditions. Volatility and uncertainty in international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas may continue. Substantial or extended declines in international crude oil prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. Significant decreases in the price of crude oil may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserve estimates in the future. In addition, our pricing policy in Brazil is intended to be at parity with international product prices over the long term. In general we do not adjust our prices for diesel, gasoline and LPG during periods of volatility in the international markets. As a result, material rapid or sustained increases in the international price of crude oil and oil products may result in reduced downstream margins for us, and we may not realize all the gains that our competitors realize in periods of higher international prices. We are also exposed to this risk during periods of depreciation of the real 18 Table of Contents in relation to the U.S. dollar, as we sell oil and oil products in Brazil in reais and international prices for crude oil and oil products are set in U.S. dollars. A depreciation of the real reduces our prices in U.S. dollar terms and may lead to reduced margins in U.S. dollars. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production depends on our ability to successfully develop our reserves, and failure to do so could prevent us from achieving our long-term goals for growth in production. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production, including those defined in our 2010-2014 Business Plan, is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully develop our existing reserves and, in the long term, upon our ability to obtain additional reserves. The development of the sizable reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters, including the pre-salt reservoirs that have been assigned to us by the Brazilian federal government, has demanded and will continue to demand significant capital investments. A primary operational challenge, particularly for the pre-salt, will be allocating our resources to build the necessary infrastructure at considerable distances from the shore and securing qualified labor force and offshore oil services to develop reservoirs of such size and magnitude in a timely manner, a challenge that is particularly heightened by the fact that we are required to acquire a minimum level of goods and services from Brazilian providers. We cannot guarantee that we will have or will be able to obtain, in the time frame that we expect, sufficient resources for the installation of infrastructure, hiring of qualified labor force and provisioning of offshore oil services necessary to exploit the reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters that the Brazilian federal government has licensed and assigned to us, or that it may license to us in the future, including as a result of the enactment of the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil. Our exploration activities also expose us to the inherent risks of drilling, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reserves. The costs of drilling wells are often uncertain, and numerous factors beyond our control (such as unexpected drilling conditions, equipment failures or incidents, and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment) may cause drilling operations to be curtailed, delayed or cancelled. These risks are heightened when we drill in deep and ultra-deep water. In addition, increased competition in the oil and gas sector in Brazil may increase the costs of obtaining additional reservoirs in bidding rounds for new concessions. We may not be able to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities of our large reservoirs in a timely manner. We may not obtain, or it may be difficult for us to obtain, financing for our planned investments, which may have a material adverse effect on us. Under our 2010-2014 Business Plan, we intend to invest U.S.$224 billion between 2010 and 2014. This amount does not include our funding requirements to acquire our rights under the Assignment Agreement or the capital expenditures that will be required to explore and develop the areas covered by the Assignment Agreement. In order to implement our 2010-2014 Business Plan, including the development of our oil and natural gas exploration activities in the pre- and post-salt layers and the development of refining capacity sufficient to process increasing production volumes, we will need to raise significant amounts of debt capital in the financial and capital markets, including by, among other means, loans and issuing debt securities. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain the necessary financing in a timely and advantageous manner in order to implement our 2010-2014 Business Plan. The Brazilian federal government maintains control over our investment budget and establishes limits on our investments and long-term debt. As a state-controlled entity, we must submit our budget for approval every year to the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management, the MME and the Brazilian Congress. Our approved budget may not be sufficient to make all of the investments that we envision, and may prevent us from acquiring additional indebtedness in a certain fiscal year. In this case, if we are not able to obtain financing at reasonable terms and conditions that do not require approval by the Brazilian federal government and the Brazilian Congress, we may not be able to complete all or part of our planned investments, including those we have agreed to make to develop our oil and natural gas exploration activities, which will adversely affect our business. 19 Table of Contents Our crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates involve some degree of uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report are our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made) according to applicable regulations. Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. There are uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves related to prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices applicable to our production, which may lead us to make revisions to our reserve estimates. Downward revisions in our reserve estimates could lead to lower future production, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not own any of the subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil. Access to crude oil and natural gas reserves is essential to an oil and gas company’s sustained production and generation of income. Under Brazilian law, the Brazilian federal government owns all subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil and the concessionaire owns the oil and gas it produces from those subsoil accumulations pursuant to concession agreements. We possess the exclusive right to develop the volumes of crude oil and natural gas included in our reserves pursuant to concession agreements awarded to us by the Brazilian federal government and we own the hydrocarbons we produce under those concession agreements. Our ability to generate income would be adversely affected if the Brazilian federal government were to restrict or prevent us from exploiting these crude oil and natural gas reserves. In addition, we may be subject to fines by the ANP and our concessions may be revoked if we do not comply with our obligations under our concessions. The new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil and the Assignment Agreement may be challenged in Brazilian courts. The new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil, enacted in 2010, establishes new rules for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas in the pre-salt areas in Brazil. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Regulation of the Oil and Gas Industry in Brazil—Current Regulatory Framework.” The assignment agreement we entered into with the Brazilian federal government on September 3, 2010 (Assignment Agreement), under which the government assigned to us exploration and production rights to oil, natural gas and other fluid hydrocarbons in pre-salt areas not under concession, of 5 billion barrels of oil equivalent, is a separate law that was also approved by Congress and enacted in 2010. Challenges to the constitutionality or legality of the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil, including challenges to the Assignment Agreement, may be brought before the Brazilian Supreme Court (Supremo Tribunal Federal, or STF) or the Brazilian Superior Court of Justice (Superior Tribunal de Justiça, or STJ). Challenges to the constitutionality or legality of the new regulatory model may relate to our status as the exclusive operator in all pre-salt areas not yet under concession, in addition to other areas that the CNPE may deem strategic, and the fact that exploration and production rights in such areas will be granted to us without a public bidding process. Challenges to the constitutionality or legality of the Assignment Agreement may relate to the direct award of exploration and production rights to us without a public bidding, contract price paid for the transfer of rights or the conditions, methodologies and results arising from the revision process pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement. If the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil, including the Assignment Agreement, is determined to be wholly or partly unconstitutional or illegal, uncertainties about the regulation of the oil and gas sector in which we operate may arise, including questions about the validity of the legal relationships that are based on the new regulatory model, including the rights acquired under the Assignment Agreement. 20 Table of Contents In addition, we cannot assure you that the price paid for the transfer of rights will not be challenged. We and our directors may be the subject of legal proceedings questioning the approval and the execution of the Assignment Agreement as being detrimental to the interests of our non-controlling shareholders. We do not know whether a challenge to the constitutionality or legality of the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil, including the Assignment Agreement, will arise, nor can we predict, in the event it does arise, the outcome of any such legal proceeding. The Assignment Agreement we entered into with the Brazilian federal government is a related party transaction. The transfer of oil and gas exploration and production rights to us related to specific pre-salt areas is governed by the Assignment Agreement, which is a contract between the Brazilian federal government, our controlling shareholder, and us. The negotiation of the Assignment Agreement involved significant issues, including negotiations regarding (1) the area covered by the transfer of rights, consisting of exploratory blocks; (2) the volume, on a barrels of oil equivalent basis, that we may extract from this area; (3) the price to be paid for the transfer of rights; (4) the terms of the subsequent revision of the contract price and volume under the Assignment Agreement; and (5) the terms providing for the reallocation of volumes among the exploratory blocks assigned to us. This contract includes provisions for a subsequent revision of the contract terms, which are subject to oil and industry prices at the time the revision is made. Once the revision process is concluded pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement, if it is determined that the revised contract price is higher than the initial contract price, we will either make an additional payment to the Brazilian federal government or reduce the amount of barrels of oil equivalent subject to the Assignment Agreement. If it is determined, on the other hand, that the revised contract price is lower than the initial contract price, the Brazilian federal government will make a payment to us. This will require a negotiation with the Brazilian federal government pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement. The Assignment Agreement provides for the reallocation of volumes among the exploratory blocks assigned to us if oil and gas production is deemed economically unviable in one or more blocks for geologic reasons that would prevent the fulfillment of the Assignment Agreement as a result of the revision process. Such reallocation would result in a revision of the volume of barrels of oil equivalent we would have to produce per block, which could prevent us from producing the maximum amount of barrels of oil equivalent contemplated under the Assignment Agreement. In the event that we cannot produce such maximum amount, the Brazilian federal government has contractually undertaken the obligation to compensate us for the volumes not produced pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement. Over the course of the life of the Assignment Agreement, novel issues may arise in the implementation of the revision process and reallocation provisions that will require negotiations between related parties. We are subject to numerous environmental and health regulations that have become more stringent in the recent past and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our activities are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to the protection of human health and the environment, both in Brazil and in other jurisdictions in which we operate. Particularly in Brazil, our oil and gas business is subject to extensive regulation by several governmental agencies, including the ANP, the ANEEL, the Brazilian Water Transportation Agency (Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários) and the Brazilian Land Transportation Agency (Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres). Failure to observe or comply with these laws and regulations could result in penalties that could adversely affect our operations. In Brazil, for example, we could be exposed to administrative and criminal sanctions, including warnings, fines and closure orders for non-compliance with these environmental regulations, which, among other things, limit or prohibit emissions or spills of toxic substances produced in connection with our operations. Waste disposal and emissions regulations may also require us to clean up or retrofit our facilities at substantial cost and could result in substantial liabilities. The Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources, or IBAMA) and the ANP routinely inspect our facilities, and may impose fines, restrictions on operations, or other sanctions in connection with its inspections. In addition, we are subject to environmental laws that require us to incur significant costs to cover damage that a project may cause to the environment. These additional costs may have a negative impact on the profitability of the projects we intend to implement or may make such projects economically unfeasible. 21 Table of Contents As environmental regulations become more stringent, and as new laws and regulations relating to climate change, including carbon controls, become applicable to us, it is probable that our capital expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations and to effect improvements in our health, safety and environmental practices will increase substantially in the future. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or renew our licenses and permits if they are revoked or if the applicable environmental authorities oppose or delay their issuance or renewal. Increased expenditures to comply with environmental regulations, mitigate the environmental impact of our operations or restore the biological and geological characteristics of the areas in which we operate may result in reductions in other strategic investments. Any substantial increase in expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations or reduction in strategic investments may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may incur losses and spend time and money defending pending litigations and arbitrations. We are currently a party to numerous legal proceedings relating to civil, administrative, environmental, labor and tax claims filed against us. These claims involve substantial amounts of money and other remedies. Several individual disputes account for a significant part of the total amount of claims against us, including a tax dispute amounting to approximately U.S.$2.7 billion. See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” In the event that claims involving a material amount and for which we have no provisions were to be decided against us, or in the event that the losses estimated turn out to be significantly higher than the provisions made, the aggregate cost of unfavorable decisions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be subject to litigation and administrative proceedings in connection with our concessions and other government authorizations, which could result in the revocation of such concessions and government authorizations. In addition, our management may be required to direct its time and attention to defending these claims, which could preclude them from focusing on our core business. Depending on the outcome, certain litigation could result in restrictions on our operations and have a material adverse effect on certain of our businesses. We are vulnerable to increased financing expenses resulting from increases in prevailing market interest rates and exchange rate fluctuation. As of December 31, 2010, approximately 60.3% — U.S.$41,462 million of our total indebtedness — consisted of floating rate debt. In light of cost considerations and market analysis, we decided not to enter into derivative contracts or make other arrangements to hedge against the risk of an increase in interest rates. Accordingly, if market interest rates (principally LIBOR) rise, our financing expenses will increase, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Fluctuations in exchange rates, especially a depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar rate, may also increase our financing expenses as most of our revenues have been denominated in reais, while some of our operating expenses and capital expenditures and a substantial portion of our indebtedness are, and are expected to continue to be, denominated in or indexed to U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. 22 Table of Contents We are not insured against business interruption for our Brazilian operations and most of our assets are not insured against war or sabotage. We do not maintain coverage for business interruptions of any nature for our Brazilian operations, including business interruptions caused by labor action. If, for instance, our workers were to strike, the resulting work stoppages could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not insure most of our assets against war or sabotage. Therefore, an attack or an operational incident causing an interruption of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to substantial risks relating to our international operations. We operate in several countries, particularly in South America and West Africa, that can be politically, economically and socially unstable. The results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries in these countries may be adversely affected by fluctuations in their local economies, political instability and governmental actions relating to the economy, including: • the imposition of price controls; • the imposition of restrictions on hydrocarbon exports; • the fluctuation of local currencies against the real; • the nationalization of oil and gas reserves; • increases in export tax and income tax rates for crude oil and oil products; and • unilateral (governmental) institutional and contractual changes, including controls on investments and limitations on new projects. If one or more of the risks described above were to materialize we may lose part or all of our reserves in the affected country and we may not achieve our strategic objectives in these countries or in our international operations as a whole, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. For more information about our operations outside Brazil, see Item 4. “Information on the Company¾International.” Risks Relating to PifCo PifCo’s operations and debt servicing capabilities are dependent on us. PifCo’s financial position and results of operations are directly affected by our decisions. PifCo is a direct wholly owned subsidiary of Petrobras incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted company with limited liability. Currently, PifCo purchases crude oil and oil products from third parties and sells them to us. PifCo also purchases crude oil and oil products from us and sells them outside Brazil. Accordingly, intercompany activities and transactions, and therefore PifCo’s financial position and results of operations, are affected by decisions made by us. Additionally, PifCo sells and purchases crude oil and oil products to and from third parties and related parties, mainly outside Brazil. Commercial operations are carried out under market conditions and at market prices. PifCo is gradually reducing its sales of crude oil and oil products to us and will gradually reduce its sales of crude oil and oil products to third parties, and will eventually cease these commercial operations altogether. At that time, PifCo will become a finance subsidiary functioning as a vehicle for us to raise capital for our operations outside of Brazil through the issuance of debt securities in the international capital markets, among other means. PifCo’s ability to service and repay its indebtedness is consequently dependent on our own operations. Financing for PifCo’s commercial operations is provided by us, as well as third-party credit providers in favor of whom we provide credit support. Our support of PifCo’s debt obligations has been and will continue to be made through unconditional and irrevocable guaranties of payment. 23 Table of Contents Our own financial condition and results of operations, as well as our financial support of PifCo, directly affect PifCo’s operational results and debt servicing capabilities. For a more detailed description of certain risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and therefore affect PifCo’s ability to meet its debt obligations, see “Risks Relating to Our Operations.” PifCo depends on us to service its indebtedness to third parties. PifCo is gradually reducing its sales of crude oil and oil products to us and will gradually reduce its sales of crude oil and oil products to third parties and will eventually cease these commercial operations altogether, as described above. PifCo regularly incurs indebtedness and will continue to do so as our finance subsidiary. PifCo depends, and will continue to depend, on financing and credit support from us to service its indebtedness to third parties. All such indebtedness has the benefit of a guaranty or other equivalent credit support from us. If for any reason we are not permitted to continue to finance PifCo’s operations or continue to provide credit support to the indebtedness it incurs, this would have a materially adverse effect on PifCo’s ability to meet its debt obligations. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with the Brazilian Federal Government The Brazilian federal government, as our principal shareholder, may cause us to pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives that may have a material adverse effect on us. The Brazilian federal government, as the principal shareholder of a mixed capital company such as ours, has pursued, and may pursue in the future, certain of its macroeconomic and social objectives through us, as permitted by law. Brazilian law requires the Brazilian federal government to own a majority of our voting stock, and so long as it does, the Brazilian federal government will have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and, through them, a majority of the executive officers who are responsible for our day-to-day management. As a result, we may engage in activities that give preference to the objectives of the Brazilian federal government rather than to our own economic and business objectives. In particular, we continue to assist the Brazilian federal government to ensure that the supply and pricing of crude oil and oil products in Brazil meet Brazilian consumption requirements. Accordingly, we may make investments, incur costs and engage in sales on terms that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Prior to January 2002, prices for crude oil and oil products were regulated by the Brazilian federal government, occasionally set below prices prevailing in the world oil markets. We cannot assure you that price controls will not be reinstated in Brazil. We may not be able to obtain financing for some of our planned investments, and failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Brazilian federal government maintains control over our investment budget and establishes limits on our investments and long-term debt. As a state-controlled entity, we must submit our proposed annual budgets to the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management, the MME and the Brazilian Congress for approval. If our approved budget reduces our proposed investments and incurrence of new debt and we cannot obtain financing that does not require Brazilian federal government approval, we may not be able to make all the investments we envision, including those we have agreed to make to expand and develop our crude oil and natural gas fields. If we are unable to make these investments, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. 24 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian federal government has historically exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and may have a material adverse effect on us. The Brazilian federal government’s economic policies may have important effects on Brazilian companies, including us, and on market conditions and prices of Brazilian securities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors and the Brazilian federal government’s response to these factors: • devaluations and other exchange rate movements; • inflation; • exchange control policies; • price instability; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • tax policy; • regulatory policy for the oil and gas industry, including pricing policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian federal government will implement changes in policy or regulations that may affect any of the factors mentioned above or other factors in the future may lead to economic uncertainty in Brazil and increase the volatility of the Brazilian securities market and securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Relating to Our Equity and Debt Securities The size, volatility, liquidity and/or regulation of the Brazilian securities markets may curb the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs. Petrobras shares are some of the most liquid in the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BM&FBOVESPA), but overall, the Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States and other jurisdictions, and may be regulated differently from the way in which U.S. investors are accustomed. Factors that may specifically affect the Brazilian equity markets may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs at the price and time they desire. The market for PifCo’s notes may not be liquid. Some of PifCo’s notes are not listed on any securities exchange and are not quoted through an automated quotation system. We can make no assurance as to the liquidity of or trading markets for PifCo’s notes. We cannot guarantee that the holders of PifCo’s notes will be able to sell their notes in the future. If a market for PifCo’s notes does not develop, holders of PifCo’s notes may not be able to resell the notes for an extended period of time, if at all. 25 Table of Contents Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs who are residents of the United States may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common or preferred shares relating to these preemptive rights, and therefore we may not file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and holders of ADSs will be entitled to receive the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the depositary cannot sell them. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association of Petrobras—Preemptive Rights.” If holders of our ADSs exchange their ADSs for common or preferred shares, they risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and forfeiting Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for our common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank of Brazil to be entitled to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends and other distributions relating to our preferred and common shares or upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares. If holders of ADSs decide to exchange their ADSs for the underlying common or preferred shares, they will be entitled to continue to rely, for five Brazilian business days from the date of exchange, on the custodian’s certificate of registration. After that period, such holders may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares, or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares, unless they obtain their own certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, of January 26, 2000, of the National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional, or CMN), which entitles registered foreign investors to buy and sell on the BM&FBOVESPA. In addition, if such holders do not obtain a certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, they may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the common or preferred shares. If such holders attempt to obtain their own certificate of registration, they may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay their ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares or the return of their capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration or any foreign capital registration obtained by such holders may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes and we cannot assure such holders that additional restrictions applicable to them, the disposition of the underlying common or preferred shares, or the repatriation of the proceeds from the process will not be imposed in the future. Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or elsewhere outside Brazil. In addition, the rights of an ADS holder, which are derivative of the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to protect their interests against actions by our board of directors are different under Brazilian Corporate Law than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Rules against insider trading and self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may also be different in Brazil than in the United States. There is also a less active plaintiff’s bar dedicated to the enforcement of shareholders’ rights in Brazil than in the United States. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action. We are a state-controlled company organized under the laws of Brazil and all of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of ADSs to effect service of process upon us or our directors and officers within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain requirements are met, holders of ADSs may face greater difficulties in protecting their interest in actions against us or our directors and officers than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction of the United States. 26 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of voting rights and preferred shares and the ADSs representing preferred shares generally do not give holders of ADSs voting rights. Holders of ADSs may encounter difficulties in the exercise of some of their rights as a shareholder if they hold our ADS rather than the underlying shares. For example, if we fail to provide the depositary with voting materials on a timely basis, holders of ADSs may not be able to vote by giving instructions to the depositary on how to vote for them. In addition, a portion of our ADSs represents our preferred shares. Under Brazilian law and our bylaws, holders of preferred shares generally do not have the right to vote in meetings of our stockholders. This means, among other things, that holders of ADSs representing preferred shares are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions or decisions. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of Petrobras—Voting Rights” for a discussion of the limited voting rights of our preferred shares. We would be required to pay judgments of Brazilian courts enforcing our obligations under the guaranty relating to PifCo’s notes only in reais. If proceedings were brought in Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the guaranty relating to PifCo’s notes, we would be required to discharge our obligations only in reais. Under the Brazilian exchange control rules, an obligation to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais, which is payable in Brazil pursuant to a decision of a Brazilian court, may be satisfied in reais at the rate of exchange, as determined by the Central Bank of Brazil, in effect on the date of payment. A finding that we are subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws and that the guaranty executed by us were a fraudulent conveyance could result in PifCo noteholders losing their legal claim against us. PifCo’s obligation to make payments on the PifCo notes is supported by our obligation under the corresponding guaranty. We have been advised by our external U.S. counsel that the guaranty is valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and the United States. In addition, we have been advised by our general counsel that the laws of Brazil do not prevent the guaranty from being valid, binding and enforceable against us in accordance with its terms. In the event that U.S. federal fraudulent conveyance or similar laws are applied to the guaranty, and we, at the time we entered into the relevant guaranty: • were or are insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of our entry into such guaranty; • were or are engaged in business or transactions for which the assets remaining with us constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur or incurred, or believed or believe that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature; and • in each case, intended to receive or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor, then our obligations under the guaranty could be avoided, or claims with respect to that agreement could be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. Among other things, a legal challenge to the guaranty on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us as a result of PifCo’s issuance of these notes. To the extent that the guaranty is held to be a fraudulent conveyance or unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the PifCo notes would not have a claim against us under the relevant guaranty and will solely have a claim against PifCo. We cannot assure you that, after providing for all prior claims, there will be sufficient assets to satisfy the claims of the PifCo noteholders relating to any avoided portion of the guaranty. 27 Table of Contents 