Risk Factors Many factors could affect our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, political, social, industry, business and financial conditions. If we do not successfully address the risks to which we are subject, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, which could include the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations, and our share price may decline. We can give no assurance that we will successfully address any of these risks. The principal risks are described below. Factors Related to our Financial Results and Financing Needs We cannot provide assurance that our business model will succeed in generating substantial revenues. Our business model is primarily based on receiving revenues in the form of fees and research revenues, milestones and royalties, and other revenue sharing payments from the commercialization of drug and diagnostic products by third parties based on product candidates (i) discovered by us and then licensed to such third parties, and/or (ii) discovered pursuant to various forms of collaborations with such third parties whereby our discovery platforms or other discovery capabilities target their areas of their interest. To date, third party arrangements with respect to product candidates discovered by us have only been entered into at the early, proof of concept stage. During 2010, a new program was initiated to take certain product candidates forward in the preclinical stage prior to licensing or other collaborations for such product candidates (our “Pipeline Program”). To date, revenues related to our initial collaborations have been minimal, totaling $40,000, $250,000 and $1.1 million in 2008, 2009 and 2010 respectively, and we have no revenues from our new Pipeline Program. We cannot be certain this business model will generate a stable or significant revenue stream. The inability to derive adequate revenues from our business model would significantly impede improvement in our operating results and liquidity or even result in the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations. 7 We have a history of losses, we expect to incur future losses and we may never achieve or sustain profitability. As of December 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $168 million and had incurred net losses of approximately $13 million in 2008, approximately $4 million in 2009 and approximately $7 million in 2010. The accumulated deficit results in large part from our primary focus from 1997 to 2004 on research and infrastructure building activities and then, beginning in 2005 to the present, on the creation and validation of discovery platforms incorporating the predictive modeling of various biological phenomena, with each such platform designed to identify novel biologic molecules of a specific type or for a specific purpose. To date, we have received only minimal current revenues from our commercialization efforts with respect to such molecules and we may continue to incur net losses in the future due to the costs and expenses associated with our research and discovery activities, including both product candidate discovery and validation and the creation of additional discovery platforms. We cannot be certain that we will ever achieve profitability, and even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We operate in a rapidly developing field and will be required to allocate substantial additional funds in the future to our research activities. Our drug and diagnostic product candidate discovery capabilities rely on a proprietary infrastructure of predictive models, algorithms and other computational tools incorporating proprietary knowledge of key biological phenomena. Life science today is a rapidly changing field with substantial research being undertaken on a worldwide basis both by academia and industry. In order to maintain our competitive advantage in predictive discovery, in 2010, we allocated a significant portion of our expenditures, to broadening and deepening our scientific infrastructure and we intend to continue to do so in the future, although such allocation was less than in previous years due to emphasis during 2010 on our Pipeline Program. If for any reason we are unable to continue to do so, our discovery ability relative to others would likely be lessened, with the result that our operating results would be negatively impacted or even result in the need to limit or even discontinue our business operations. We may not be able to provide the resources that may be required in the future with respect to our Pipeline Program, requiring us to attempt to license out certain molecules at a very early stage, and therefore negatively impacting the potential returns from such products. In 2010 we initiated our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we intend to both (i) substantially increase the number of predicted and selected product candidates being evaluated by us, and (ii) take selected product candidates beyond their proof of concept stage (either disease animal model for peptide and protein therapeutics or drug target full expression profile for monoclonal antibody (“mAb”) targets) into preclinical activities for protein and peptide therapeutics or for mAb targets, to in vivo proof of concept with a mAb.. Assuming a similar level of success in the initial validation stages as we experienced in the past, this may result in multiple product candidates reaching more costly stages of development in parallel. If we are not able to secure the funding required for these activities, we may be required to abandon, postpone, or attempt to license out certain molecules at a very early stage, which may result in a substantial reduction in the potential returns from such products. We may need to raise additional funds in the future. If we do and are unable to raise such needed additional funds, we may need to curtail or cease operations, and if we do raise additional funds, to the extent such funding is based on the sale of equity, our existing shareholders are likely to experience dilution of their shareholdings. As of December 31, 2010, we had total cash and cash equivalents, short-term bank deposits, and receivables from a Funding Arrangement of approximately $26.8 million, compared with approximately $23.4 million as of December 31, 2009, including receivables on account of shares, and in both cases, not including the market value of the Evogene ordinary shares that we hold. We do not anticipate that we will achieve profitability in the near future and may need additional funds to continue financing our discovery, validation, development and commercialization activities. We cannot provide any assurance that additional funding, if needed, will be available on terms that are favorable to us, if at all. Our ability to obtain additional funding will be subject to a number of factors, including market conditions, our operating performance and investor sentiment. On January 11, 2011 we filed a shelf registration with the SEC covering the offering and sale of up to $40 million of our securities, which became effective on January 21, 2011. There is no assurance that we will be able to raise capital under this shelf registration. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities or convertible securities, we expect that our shareholders will experience dilution of their shareholdings. If we are unable to obtain additional financing on commercially reasonable terms, we may have to curtail or cease our discovery and validation activities, or restrict or even cease operations. 8 Under the Funding Agreement with Baize Investments (Israel) Ltd. (“Baize”) entered in December 2010, we may have to share in any future economic success of certain product candidates, and may dilute the holdings of our current shareholders. On December 29, 2010, we entered into a funding agreement with Baize under which Baize has provided us with $5,000,000 in support of our Pipeline Program (the “Funding Agreement”). In exchange, Baize received (i) the right to receive ten percent (which amount may be reduced under certain circumstances) (the “Participation Rights”) of certain cash consideration received by us pursuant to any licenses for the development and commercialization of products developed from five designated product candidates currently in our Pipeline Program, and (ii) warrants for 500,000 of our ordinary shares, exercisable at $6.00 per share through June 30, 2013. If, prior to June 30, 2011, we receive commitments from third parties for an investment in us of an aggregate of at least $15,000,000, which investment includes financial participation rights in ten or more Compugen-discovered molecules (a “Subsequent Financing”), Baize must either (i) exchange its rights to Participation Rights for consideration on the same terms and conditions as would be received by third parties for a $5,000,000 investment in such Subsequent Financing, or (ii) waive its rights to Participation Rights and have the $5,000,000 investment amount refunded to it. The June 30, 2011 deadline for Compugen to receive commitments for a Subsequent Financing may be extended by us on a month to month basis, but not past December 31, 2011, by issuing to Baize a warrant for 83,333 additional Compugen ordinary shares, on the same terms as the original warrant, for each such month of extension. In addition, at any time through June 30, 2013 (including in the event of a Subsequent Financing), Baize may waive its right to receive Participation Rights in exchange for 833,333 Compugen ordinary shares. If any one or all five designated product candidates are successfully licensed, developed or commercialized, and Baize has not elected to waive its Participation Rights as set forth above, we will need to provide Baize with up to 10% of certain related cash consideration received by us. If in the event of a Subsequent Financing, Baize chooses (i) to exchange its rights to Participation Rights and participate in such Subsequent Financing, we will have to provide Baize with the same, currently unknown, terms as other investors will receive, or (ii) to not participate in such Subsequent Financing whereby it will give up its rights to Participation Rights and receive a refund of its investment, we will have to refund such $5,000,000 investment. If in the event that prior to June 30, 2013, Baize chooses to exchange its Participation Rights for 833,333 ordinary shares, we will have to provide such ordinary shares and dilute our current shareholders. In addition, if we choose to extend the deadline for a commitment for a Subsequent Financing, we may have to provide additional warrants for ordinary shares to Baize, thereby diluting our current shareholders. If we are unable to continue to receive research and development grants, our financial results may be negatively impacted and we may need to restrict certain research activities. We have received research and development grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, and from the European Community, under the European Union’s 6th Framework Program. In 2010, the grants we received totaled approximately $1 million compared with approximately $944,000 in 2009 and approximately $544,000 in 2008. Our entitlement to receive these grants is dependent on, among other things, our compliance with the various grants’ respective terms and conditions. In addition, the Office of the Chief Scientist may reduce or eliminate these benefits in the future. Our contingent liability to repay these grants out of future revenues totaled approximately $7.2 million at December 31, 2010. If we do not comply with the terms and conditions of the grants or if we do not succeed in obtaining these or similar grants in the future, we may have to restrict certain research activities. 9 Factors Related to our Discovery and Development Activities and to the Commercialization of our Discoveries The success of our business largely depends on our predictive discovery capabilities which remain unproven with respect to yielding marketable products, and may never lead to marketable products. If we fail to continue to develop and enhance our discovery capabilities, or we fail to make novel discoveries, or focus on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our proprietary predictive discovery capabilities are designed to predict and select potential product candidates in many different therapeutic and diagnostic areas of interest. To date, the validation of our initial predicted and selected product candidates has been limited to in vitro and in vivo (including animal disease models) testing and no human testing has yet been undertaken. Furthermore, the discovery capabilities utilized to predict and select these product candidates, including the individual discovery platforms, rely on the modeling, by our scientists, of complex biological processes, both physiological and pathological. This modeling is partial and might not be sufficient to result in true predictions to the biological processes as they occur naturally. Even if we make true or partially true predictions, we might be able only to repeat discoveries already made by others and not be able to make novel discoveries. This may result either from relying on data already used by others or by developing capabilities already developed, wholly or partially by others, or from inherent incapacity of such capabilities. In addition, since our research and discovery resources are limited we might be able to progress with only a fraction of our discoveries. We currently assess which discoveries to validate based on various criteria. If we or our partners fail to select the right candidates to validate and/or progress with, due to either lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, the selected candidates may never result in a marketable product. Additionally, we may not be able to make the necessary new developments and enhancements to our discovery capabilities in order to compete successfully within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. Most of our initial product candidates have been the result of our validation efforts for our predictive discovery platforms, each of which was designed to identify novel biologics of a specific type or for a specific purpose. In late 2009 we shifted the focus of our discovery efforts from this “technology driven” basis to a “market-need driven” basis. If either the predictive discovery approach in general, or this new focus, does not prove to be successful, our business will be significantly harmed. Our method of discovering novel product candidates involves first selecting – either on our own or with a partner company - an unmet therapeutic or diagnostic need where we believe our predictive capabilities would be relevant, or could be modified to be relevant. In this market need driven approach, our goal is to harness all of our relevant capabilities in order to address the specific unmet need, rather than relying on a single discovery platform as was the case previously. After selection of the unmet need we wish to address, we then focus all of our discovery platforms, algorithms and other computational biology capabilities to predict in silico (i.e. by computer) sequences for a typically large number of possible product candidates. Next we utilize proprietary algorithms and tools and other methodologies to select from this large number of possibilities, those novel molecules that we believe have the highest probability of success. Selected molecules are then synthesized and undergo in vitro and/or in vivo validation testing. Each of these platforms incorporates the predictive modeling of various biological phenomena, with each such platform designed to identify novel biologic molecules of a specific type, or for a specific purpose. Although our initial “market need” driven program resulted in the discovery of a number of novel molecules in an area of high industry interest, we have limited experience with this new focus for our discovery efforts. Therefore, we cannot predict whether this market-need driven focus will continue to yield product candidates or that any of such existing discoveries or future discoveries will be suitable for development into therapeutic or diagnostic products. If either the predictive discovery approach in general does not prove to be successful, or this new focus does not lead to successful product candidates, our business will be significantly harmed. The success of our business largely depends on our ability to integrate our discovery platforms and related technologies to focus on areas of high industry interest within the fields of immunology and oncology, which we have selected as our initial fields of focus. The predictive capabilities of our discovery platforms with respect to these fields is largely unproven and may never lead to marketable products. If we fail to create additional discoveries of industry interest in these fields, or to focus on the most promising discoveries, our business will likely be materially harmed. In spite of our broad abilities, in recent years we have chosen to focus our discovery activities in the fields of immunology and oncology. There are many risks associated with this decision to focus, including the risk involved in not using all of our capabilities, and the risk of choosing fields with such a very high degree of competition. In order to successfully focus our discovery efforts on unmet market needs in these fields, we will need to integrate our proprietary discovery platforms, tools and systems towards this end, and will likely need to create in many cases additional infrastructure components that relate to these specific fields. We might be unsuccessful due to a lack of certain relevant knowledge in the fields of immunology or oncology, or in selecting the right unmet needs or candidates, or in integrating our platforms and tools in order to discover novel product candidates in these fields, or in creating the required additional components. Additionally, we are focusing almost exclusively on development of therapeutic products. With respect to diagnostic products, we have decided to pursue such opportunities only in collaboration with third parties. Any or all of these decisions may prove to be incorrect and if so, cause us to be unsuccessful in our discovery and development activities. In each case, our failure could be due to lack of experience or applying the wrong criteria, with the possible result that no selected candidates results in licensed or marketable products in these fields. Additionally, we may not be able to make the necessary enhancements of our capabilities and related technologies in order to compete successfully within the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 10 During 2010 we decided that for the next few years we would emphasize our newly designated Pipeline Program and allocate a substantial portion of our R&D activities to this activity. This emphasis has resulted in a substantial increase in the number of molecules under validation and the initiation of post animal model pre-proof of concept activities for certain molecules, including pre-IND activities. This decision to advance further with certain molecules will require us to undertake certain activities for the first time and may result in product candidate failures during such additional activities, or fewer molecules being available for early stage licensing. Prior to 2010, Compugen’s in vitro and in vivo validation studies concluded with disease animal model or similar testing. At the completion of such activities, or earlier, Compugen initiated its efforts to enter into collaborations for such molecules. This is at an earlier stage than is typical for licensing in the pharmaceutical industry. Under the Pipeline Program, the company has undertaken a substantial increase in the number of molecules being validated, with more than 30 such molecules currently in the Pipeline, and in addition certain molecules are now being advanced further towards pre-clinical activities. During 2010 we decided that for the next few years we would emphasize our Pipeline Program and allocate a substantial portion of our R&D activities to this activity This decision to advance further with certain molecules will require us to undertake certain activities for the first time and may result in product candidate failures during such additional activities, or fewer molecules being available for early stage licensing. If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. We rely on access to public and commercial databases to feed our discovery capabilities including our individual discovery platforms, and if we are denied access to these databases for any reason or if the quality of available information is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, our operations and business may be harmed. In the development and validation of our discovery platforms and other tools, and of the resulting therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use public and commercially available databases. The quality of our platforms, tools and discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of the data in these databases. If we are denied access to these databases, or if we are granted access to such databases on terms which are not commercially reasonable, or if the quality of data available from those databases is poor, or if the quantity of the available information is insufficient, our business and our results of operations may be materially harmed. We rely on access to high-quality biological samples supported by detailed clinical records to conduct parts of our discovery and validation activities. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason, or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and validation of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on our ability to access and use commercially available biological samples. The quality of our discoveries is in part dependent on the quality and quantity of available biological samples. If we will fail to identify and purchase or otherwise obtain such samples for any reason or if the quality of available biological samples is poor, or if the quantity of the available biological samples is insufficient, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. We rely on the services of various third party service providers, contract research organizations (CRO's) and academia for production of certain biological reagents and performance of certain in-vitro and/or animal model validation of our discoveries. If we will fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In carrying out our discovery and validation of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we rely on the services of various third party service providers, CRO's and academia for production of certain biological reagents and performance of certain in-vitro or animal model validation of our discoveries. If we will fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, or if the contractual demands of such third parties become unreasonable and we will not be able to reach satisfactory agreements with such third parties, we may not be able to obtain the required services, in which event our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In addition, we have no experience in conducting, managing, or sponsoring preclinical work to IND submission. 11 We rely on the services of various third party service providers, such as CRO's, contract manufacturing organizations (CMOs) and regulatory consultants for further development of our candidates in preclinical activities towards Investigational New Drug (IND) submission, such as manufacturing of the biological molecule, toxicity testing and regulatory submission. If we will fail to identify and obtain quality services from such third parties, the advancement of our selected candidates may be harmed. In advancing our candidates through certain required preclinical studies towards IND submission, we rely on the services of various third party service providers, such as CRO's, CMOs, and various regulatory consultants If we will fail to identify the most professional third parties, or if the contractual demands of such third parties become unreasonable and we are not able to reach satisfactory agreements with such third parties, we may not be able to obtain the required services, in which event our discovery and validation capabilities may be harmed. In addition, we have no experience in conducting, managing, or sponsoring preclinical work for purposes of IND submission. There are risks that are inherent in the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products, and if these risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We face a number of risks of failure that are inherent in the process of developing and commercializing therapeutic and diagnostic products. These risks include, among others, the possibility that: · our therapeutic product candidates will be found to be pharmacologically ineffective; · our therapeutic product candidates will be found to be toxic or to have other detrimental side effects; · our diagnostic product candidates will prove to be ineffective in distinguishing between healthy and disease samples or in providing information relating to a patient’s response to a drug; · we or our collaborators will fail to receive applicable regulatory approvals; · we or our collaborators will fail to manufacture our product candidates in the quantity or quality needed for preclinical or clinical trials on a large scale in a cost effective manner; · the commercialization of our product candidates may infringe third party intellectual property rights; · the development, marketing or sale of our product candidates will fail because of our inability or failure to protect or maintain our own intellectual property rights; and/or · once a product is launched in the market, there will be little or no demand for it as a result of its exclusion from health funds' reimbursement schemes or as a result of there being alternative products available for sale. If one or more of these risks or any similar risks materialize, our business and financial results may be materially harmed. We have limited experience in the development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, and if we fail to maintain and/or acquire the appropriate experience, our business may be materially harmed. Our experience in the development of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates is limited. In order to successfully develop and commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we must either access such expertise via collaborations or service providers or improve our internal expertise, capabilities and facilities. We may not be able to maintain and/or engage any or all of the experts that we need in order to do so. If we fail to have available at the appropriate times all of the required experience and expertise in the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, we may be unsuccessful in our discovery and development activities, and as a result our business may be materially harmed. 12 We have no experience in conducting or managing clinical trials for potential therapeutic products. We have no experience in conducting and managing the clinical trials necessary to obtain regulatory approvals for any product, and we intend to rely on our collaborators or third parties such as CROs, medical institutions and clinical investigators to perform these functions. Our reliance on third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct clinical trials in accordance with regulatory requirements or our trial design. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet required performance standards or expected deadlines, we might be required to replace them or the data that they provide could be rejected, all of, which may result in a delay of the affected trial. We or our collaborators may be unable to obtain regulatory approval for any product that we or a collaborator may develop. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will be subject to extensive governmental regulations including those relating to development, clinical trials, manufacturing and commercialization. Rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials and an extensive regulatory review process must be successfully completed in the United States and in many foreign jurisdictions before a new therapeutic product can be sold. Satisfaction of these and other regulatory requirements is costly, time consuming, uncertain and subject to unanticipated delays. The time required to obtain FDA and other approvals for therapeutic products is unpredictable but typically exceeds several years. It is possible that none of the therapeutic products we or our collaborators may develop will obtain the appropriate regulatory approvals necessary for us or our collaborators to begin selling them. Furthermore, any regulatory approval to market a therapeutic product may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses. These limitations may limit the size of the market for the therapeutic product. Any therapeutic product that we or our collaborators may develop will also be subject to numerous foreign regulatory requirements governing the conduct of clinical trials, manufacturing and marketing authorization, pricing and third-party reimbursement among other things. The foreign regulatory approval process includes all of the risks associated with FDA approval described above as well as risks attributable to the satisfaction of local regulations in foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, approval by the FDA of a therapeutic product does not assure approval by regulatory authorities outside the United States or vice versa. If we or our collaborators, or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future, fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we or they could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect our ability to market and sell diagnostics and therapeutics and may harm our reputation. If we or our collaborators, or any third-party manufacturers with which we may enter into agreements in the future fail to comply with applicable federal, state or foreign laws or regulations, we could be subject to enforcement actions, which could affect the ability to successfully develop, market and sell diagnostic or therapeutic products and could harm our reputation and lead to reduced acceptance of such products by the market. If we do not comply with laws regulating the use of human tissues or the conduct of experiments involving animals, our business could be adversely affected. We use human tissue samples and conduct experiments involving animals, for the purpose of development and validation of our technologies. Our access to and use of human tissue samples and the conduct of experiments involving animals are subject to government regulation in the United States, Israel and elsewhere and may become subject to further regulation. For example, the Israeli Ministry of Health requires compliance with the principles of the Helsinki Declaration, the Public Health Regulations (Clinical Trials in Human Subjects) 1980, the provisions of the Guidelines for Clinical Trials in Human Subjects and the provisions of the current Harmonized Tripartite Guideline for Good Clinical Practice. Our failure to comply with these or similar regulations could impact our business and results of operations. 13 The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive, and we may be unable to compete effectively. The biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are highly competitive. Numerous entities in the United States, Europe and elsewhere compete with our efforts to discover, validate and partner with licensees and/or collaborators to commercialize therapeutic and diagnostic products or product candidates. Our competitors include pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies, academic and research institutions and governmental and other publicly funded agencies. We face, and expect to continue to face, competition from these entities to the extent that they develop products that have a function similar or identical to the function of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. We also face, and expect to continue to face, competition from entities that seek to develop technologies that enable the discovery of novel therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Many of our competitors benefit from greater market recognition, and have substantially greater financial, technical, human, research and development, and marketing resources than we do. Since we are a small company with limited human resources, we are not able to work with a large number of collaborators in parallel. Our competitors may discover and develop product candidates or market and sell products based on their discoveries, in advance of us or of our collaborators or licensees. They may also obtain patents and other intellectual property rights before us and thereby prevent us from pursuing the development and commercialization of our discoveries. For information about the specific competitors with whom we compete, see “Competition” under “Item 4. Information on the Company.” If we are unable to compete successfully against existing or potential competitors, our financial results and business may be materially harmed. The trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries may adversely affect us. There is a trend towards consolidation in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic and biotechnology industries. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and discovery technological capabilities, thus intensifying competition in these industries. This trend may also result in fewer potential collaborators or licensees for our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Also, if a consolidating company is already doing business with our competitors, we may lose existing licensees or collaborators as a result of such consolidation. In addition, if a consolidating company is already doing business with us, we may lose the interest of the consolidating parties in our discovery capabilities or individual discoveries as a result of a modified strategy and new priorities of such consolidated entity. This trend may adversely affect our ability to enter into agreements for the development and commercialization of our product candidates, and as a result may harm our business. We depend significantly on collaborators for the development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates, and if we are unable to maintain our existing agreements or to enter into additional agreements with collaborators in the future, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates depends on the formation of collaborations or licensing relationships with third parties that have complementary capabilities. We depend significantly on our collaborators and licensees to carry out and/or finance product development and commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. Potential collaborators and licensees include pharmaceutical, biotechnology and diagnostic companies and other healthcare related organizations, To date, we have entered into a small number of collaborations covering discovery, development and commercialization rights with respect to certain of our product candidates and none of the product candidates covered by such collaborations have, to date, advanced beyond the validation stage. We cannot assure you that any of these agreements will result in the successful development or commercialization of any products based on our discoveries. Further, we cannot assure you that we will succeed in identifying additional suitable collaborators or entering into any other additional agreements with collaborators for the discovery, development and/or commercialization of our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. If we are unable to identify such additional suitable collaborators or enter into new collaborations, our business will likely be materially harmed. 14 We may not be able to find collaborators that will agree to license or otherwise commercialize our discoveries at an early stage, and if we do not find such collaborators, our business will likely be materially harmed. Our strategy for the development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates is based on our discovery and initial validation and in some cases, pursuant to our Pipeline Program begun in 2010, pre-clinical development of those product candidates. We consider initial validation of a therapeutic product candidate to be a stage at which we show biological activity of that candidate in animal models and in some cases, will undertake certain pre-clinical development of those product candidates. We consider initial validation of drug target candidates to be a stage at which we show differential expression in physiological or disease conditions and in some cases, show therapeutic potential of that target, or a molecule such as a monoclonal antibody addressing such candidate target, in animal models. We consider initial validation of diagnostic product candidates to be a stage where we may demonstrate that the product candidate is differentially present in different physiological or disease conditions. We either carry out such initial validation ourselves or we engage third parties to provide such validation and then we ordinarily seek to rely on our collaborators and licensees to carry out further product development. Pharmaceutical and diagnostic companies may be reluctant or refuse to in-license or otherwise collaborate with us with respect to our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates at these early stages when there remains, based on industry experience, a high likelihood of failure. An additional barrier to our success in obtaining collaborators at such very early stage is the existence of skepticism in the industry about the value of in silico predictive modeling in life science discovery due to largely unsuccessful past attempts by them or other organizations, most of which were significantly larger than Compugen. Even if we are successful in commercializing our product candidates at an early stage, our collaborators may propose terms that we may not consider commercially desirable and the consideration that we may receive for each individual product may be relatively low. If we are unable to enter into collaborations for the commercialization of our discoveries at an early stage, we may need to validate and develop our discoveries ourselves until the candidates attain a more mature stage of development. Such development activities may require us to expend substantial additional financial and other resources. If we are unable to raise or spend these additional resources, we may have to curtail or cease our discovery and development activities, and as a result our business will likely be materially harmed. Our dependence on collaboration agreements, such as licensing-out or co-development, with third parties presents a number of risks, and if one or more of these risks materialize, our business may be materially harmed. The risks that we face in connection with our existing collaborations, licenses and other business alliances as well as those that we may enter into the future include, among others, the following: · we may be unable to comply or fully comply with our obligations under collaboration agreements into which we enter, and as a result, we may not generate royalties or milestone payments from such agreements, and our ability to enter into additional agreements may be harmed; · our collaborators have significant discretion in electing whether to pursue any of the planned activities and the manner in which it will be done; · our collaborators will fail to design and implement appropriate clinical trials · our collaborators will fail to manufacture our product candidates to clinical trials on a large scale in a cost effective manner; · our collaborators will fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries due to various regulatory restrictions; · our collaborators will fail to develop and market products based on our discoveries prior to the successful marketing of competing products by others or prior to expiry of the patents protecting such products; · we may not be able to control our collaborators’ willingness to pursue development of our product candidates, or the amount of resources that our collaborators will devote to the collaboration; · changes in a collaborator's business strategy may negatively affect its willingness or ability to complete its obligations under its arrangement or to continue with its collaboration with us; · ownership of the intellectual property generated under our collaborations may be disputed; · our ownership of rights in any intellectual property or products that may result from our collaborations may depend on additional investment of money that we may not be able or willing to make; · prospective collaborators may pursue alternative products or technologies, by internally developing them or by preferring those of our competitors; · disagreements between us and our collaborators may lead to delays in, or termination of, the collaboration; · our collaborators may fail to develop or commercialize successfully any products based on product candidates to which they have obtained rights from us; and If any of these risks materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially harmed. 15 The agreement cycle for potential collaborations is complex and lengthy and as a result, we may expend substantial funds and management resources with no assurance of success. We are required to negotiate agreements containing terms unique to each licensee and collaborator and which suit each collaborator’s specific discovery, development and business strategies. The accommodation of these requirements mandates a thorough consideration of both the scientific and business aspects of each transaction. The diversity and wide applicability of our discovery capabilities in therapeutics and diagnostics together with the fact that we are located in Israel, adds a high level of complexity to our business development efforts. As a result, the process of preparing and negotiating our licensing and other agreements may take 12 months or longer, and even then may end in failure to reach a final agreement. These business development and related commercial activities require the input and substantial time and efforts of our key scientific and management personnel. As a result we believe that we will need to continue to expend substantial funds and substantial management time and effort into these business development activities with no assurance of successfully entering into agreements with potential collaborators and this could harm our business. Factors Related to our Operations Generally We may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or sufficiently qualified employees, in which case our business may be harmed. Our business is highly dependent upon the continued services of our senior management and key scientific and technical personnel. While members of our senior management and other key personnel have entered into employment or consulting agreements and non-competition and non-disclosure agreements, we cannot assure you that these key personnel and others will not leave us or compete with us, which could harm our business activities and operations. It is difficult to find suitable and highly qualified personnel in certain aspects of our industry. As a result of a restructuring that was completed in early 2009 to refocus efforts and reduce cash burn, the Company’s headcount was reduced from 57 as of December 31, 2008 to 37 as of December 31, 2009 and as of December 31, 2010, was 39. While the reductions during 2009 impacted our capacity in certain areas, we believe that these headcount reductions have not and will not impact any of the Company’s discovery capabilities or its ability to develop new platforms. However, we cannot be certain of this and such reductions (as well as potential future reductions) may have a material adverse effect on our employee retention ability. It can be difficult for us to find employees with appropriate experience for our business. We require a multidisciplinary approach and our researchers require experience in both exact and biological sciences. On average, our employees have been employed by Compugen for seven years. Our business may be harmed if we are unable to retain our key personnel, or to attract, integrate or retain other highly qualified personnel in the future. Revenues that we may generate from commercialization of our technologies or discoveries may be reduced because of obligations to pay back Israeli governmental grants or other grants that we receive, and related restrictions may be imposed with respect to products developed with the help of such grants. In addition, revenues that we may generate on the specific Pipeline Products covered by the Baize Funding Agreement may be reduced because of obligations to pay Baize a percentage of any revenues or other consideration we may receive. The development of some of our technologies and of the discoveries that we make have been and may, in the future, be partially funded by governmental grants that we received or may receive from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor. According to Israeli law, certain restrictions and obligations are imposed on us in relation to the development and commercialization of discoveries that are financed by these grants. These obligations and restrictions would be imposed if we were to seek to manufacture the technologies outside of Israel or to transfer certain of our know-how within or outside of Israel. Therefore, our flexibility in commercializing some of our technologies that are so funded may be reduced. In addition, revenues that we may generate on the five designated product candidates covered by the Baize Funding Agreement may be reduced due to the obligations to pay Baize a up to ten percent of any revenues or other consideration we may receive with respect to such designated product candidates. 16 We may be unable to safeguard the integrity, security and confidentiality of our data or third parties’ data, and if we are unable to do so, our business may be harmed. We rely heavily on the use and manipulation of large amounts of data and on the secure and continuous use of our internal computers, communication networks and software and hardware systems. We have implemented and maintain physical and software security measures to preserve and protect our computers, communication, and hardware and software systems as well as our data and third parties’ data. However, these methods may not protect us against fire, storm, flood, power loss, earthquakes, telecommunications failures, physical or software break-ins or similar events. In addition, these measures may not be sufficient to prevent unauthorized access, use or publication of such proprietary data. A party who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate or destroy proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. A party who has access to our proprietary data could misappropriate such data, make unauthorized use of or unintentionally destroy all or part of such proprietary data. In addition, a party, including an employee, who obtains unauthorized access to our proprietary data or breaches a confidentiality agreement with us could publish or transfer large portions or all of our proprietary data. Such publication of proprietary data could materially harm our intellectual property position, thereby seriously harming our competitive position. Such security breaches, if significant, could harm our operations and even cause our business to cease. We may be subject to claims related to hazardous chemicals and biological materials that we use, and these claims may harm our business. Our research and development activities in some cases may involve the controlled use of biological and chemical materials, a small amount of which could be hazardous. We cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge of any of these materials. If hazardous biological or chemical materials in our possession were to be improperly used, that could result in harm to persons or property we could be subject to both civil damages and criminal penalties. In such event, our liability may exceed our insurance coverage. Factors Related to Intellectual Property We may not be able to protect our non-patented proprietary data, technologies or discoveries, and that may materially harm our business. We rely heavily on our proprietary know-how and trade secrets that we develop and that are not protectable or protected by patents. The protective measures that we employ may not provide adequate protection for our trade secrets and know-how. Our business collaborators, licensees, employees, advisers and consultants may disclose our proprietary know-how or trade secrets in violation of their obligations to us. We may not be able to meaningfully protect our rights in our proprietary know-how or trade secrets against such unauthorized disclosure and any consequent unauthorized publication. If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary know-how and trade secrets, competitors may be able to develop technologies and resulting discoveries and inventions that are the same or similar to our own discoveries and inventions. That could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. We may not be able to obtain or maintain patent protection for our inventions and if we fail to do so, our business will likely be materially harmed. The success of our business depends, to a large extent, on our ability to obtain and maintain patents that cover our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates. We have applied for patents covering our therapeutic and diagnostic product candidates as well as aspects of some of our technologies. We have a total of 25 issued patents, of which 23 are U.S. patents. We also have pending patent applications which include 32 patent applications that have been filed in the United States (two of which have, to date, been allowed for issuance) and three applications that have been filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty for which we have not yet designated the countries of filing. We plan to continue to apply for patent protection for our therapeutic and diagnostic inventions, including for related inventions such as antibodies and peptides, but we cannot assure you that any of our patent applications will be accepted, or that they will be accepted to the extent that we seek. Additionally, we file for patent protection in selected countries and not in all countries of the world. Therefore, we are exposed to competition in those countries in which we have no patent protection. Also, due to our early stage business model, we may be required to seek patent protection at a very early stage. This may cause issuance of a patent at an earlier stage creating a shorter commercialization period under patent protection, possibly enabling others to compete with us. 17 The process of obtaining patents for inventions that cover our products is uncertain for a number of reasons, including but not limited to: · the patenting of our inventions involves complex legal issues, many of which have not yet been settled; · legislative and judicial changes, or changes in the examination guidelines of governmental patent offices may negatively affect our ability to obtain molecule-based patents; · in view of the finite number of human genes, we face intense competition from other biotechnology and pharmaceutical companies who have already sought patent protection relating to gene-based discoveries that we may intend to develop and commercialize; · publication of large amounts of genomic data by non-commercial and commercial entities may hinder our ability to obtain sufficiently broad patent claims for our inventions; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, such protection may not be sufficient to prevent third parties from using our patented inventions; early stage filing may lead to a shorter commercialization period under patent protection and increased competition; · even if we succeed in obtaining patent protection, our patents could be partially or wholly invalidated, including by our competitors; and · there are significant costs that may need to be incurred in registering and filing patents. If we do not succeed in obtaining patent protection for our inventions to the fullest extent for which we seek protection, our business and financial results will likely be materially harmed. The existence of third party intellectual property rights may prevent us from developing our discoveries or require us to expend financial and other resources to be able to continue to do so. In selecting a therapeutic or diagnostic product candidate for development, we take into account, among other considerations, the existence of third party intellectual property rights that may hinder our right to develop and commercialize that product candidate. The human genomic pool is finite. To our knowledge, third parties, including our competitors, have been filing wide patent applications covering an increasing portion of the human genomic pool and the proteins and peptides expressed therefrom. As a result of the existence of such third party intellectual property rights, we have been and may be further required to: · forgo the research, development and commercialization of therapeutic and diagnostic products candidates that we discover, notwithstanding their promising scientific and commercial merits; or · invest substantial management and financial resources to either challenge or in-license such third party intellectual property, and we cannot assure you that we will succeed in doing so on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. We do not always have available to us, in a timely manner, information of the existence of third party intellectual property rights related to our own discoveries. The content of U.S. and other patent applications remain unavailable to the public for a period of approximately 18 months from their filing date. In some instances, the content of U.S. patent applications remain unavailable to the public until the patents are issued. As a result, we can never be certain that development projects that we commence will be free of third party intellectual property rights. If we become aware of the existence of third party intellectual property rights only after we have commenced a particular development project, we may have to forgo such project after having invested substantial resources in it. 18 We may infringe third party rights and may become involved in litigation, which may materially harm our business. If a third party accuses us of infringing its intellectual property rights or if a third party commences litigation against us for the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights, we may incur significant costs in defending such action, whether or not we ultimately prevail. Typically, patent litigation in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industry is expensive and prolonged. Costs that we incur in defending third party infringement actions would also result in the diversion of management’s and technical personnel’s time, the effect of which may be even more adverse then in the past due to the recent reduction in the size of our workforce. In addition, parties making claims against us may be able to obtain injunctive or other equitable relief that could prevent us or our collaborators and licensees from further developing our discoveries or commercializing our products. In the event of a successful claim of infringement against us, we may be required to pay damages and obtain one or more licenses from the prevailing third party. If we are not able to obtain such a license at a reasonable cost, if at all, we could encounter delays in product introductions and loss of substantial resources while we attempt to develop alternative products. Defense of any lawsuit or failure to obtain any such license could prevent us or our partners from commercializing available products and could cause us to incur substantial expenditures. Factors Related to our Ordinary Shares Holders of our ordinary shares who are U.S. residents may be required to pay additional U.S. federal income taxes. There is a risk that we may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC. Our treatment as a PFIC could result in a reduction in the after-tax return of U.S. holders of our ordinary shares and may cause a reduction in the value of our shares. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, we will generally be classified as a PFIC for any taxable year in which either: (i) 75% or more of our gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the average value (determined on a quarterly basis) of our total assets for the taxable year produce or are held for the production of passive income. Based on our income, assets, activities and market capitalization, we do not believe that we were a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2010; however, there can be no assurances that the United States Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) will not challenge this conclusion. There is a also risk that we were a PFIC for one or more prior taxable years. If we were a PFIC during any prior years, U.S. holders who acquired or held our ordinary shares during such years generally will be subject to the PFIC rules regardless of whether we were a PFIC for 2010. However, if we were not a PFIC for 2010, U.S. holders who acquired our ordinary shares in 2010 will not be subject to the PFIC rules unless we are classified as a PFIC in future years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, which are relevant to this determination. If we were determined to be a PFIC for U.S. federal income tax purposes, highly complex rules would apply to U.S. holders owning our ordinary shares and such U.S. holders could suffer adverse U.S. tax consequences. For more details on our PFIC status see “Item 10. United States Federal Income Tax Considerations – Tax Consequences if We Are a Passive Foreign Investment Company.” We have a limited operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model upon which to base an investment decision or upon which to predict our revenues. Our ability to generate revenues from collaboration and licensing activities for current and future product candidate discoveries, primarily in the form of fees, milestones, research revenues and revenue sharing payments remains untested to date, we have received only minimal current revenues from our initial collaborations, having recognized $40,000 of such revenue in 2008, $250,000 of such revenue in 2009 and $1.1 million of such revenue in 2010. Furthermore, only in 2010 did we implement our Pipeline Program pursuant to which we intend to advance certain therapeutic product candidates 12-18 months past disease animal model proof of concept or similar validation further towards pre-IND activities, and have no experience with respect to the financial terms that may be available at this stage of development. Therefore, our operating history with respect to the commercialization aspects of our business model provides an extremely limited basis for you to assess our ability to generate significant fee, milestone, research revenue and revenue sharing payments from the licensing and commercialization of our product candidate discoveries, or from “discovery on demand” collaborations, and therefore on the advisability of investing in our securities. 19 Our share price and trading volume have been volatile and may be volatile in the future and that could limit investors’ ability to sell stock at a profit and could limit our ability to successfully raise funds. During the last two fiscal years, our stock price on Nasdaq has traded from a low of $0.39 to a high of $5.86 and trading volume is volatile from time to time. The volatile price of our stock and periodic volatile trading volume may make it difficult for investors to predict the value of their investment, to sell shares at a profit at any given time, or to plan purchases and sales in advance. A variety of factors may affect the market price of our ordinary shares including: · negative global macroeconomic developments · our success (or lack thereof) in entering into collaboration agreements and achieving certain developmental milestones thereunder; · our need to raise additional capital and our success or failure in doing so ; · achievement or denial of regulatory approvals by our competitors or us; · announcements of technological innovations or new commercial products by our competitors; · developments concerning proprietary rights, including patents; · developments concerning our existing or new collaborations; · regulatory developments in the United States, Israel and other countries; · delay or failure by us or our partners in initiating, completing or analyzing pre-clinical or clinical trials or the unsatisfactory design or results of such trials; · period to period fluctuations in our revenues and other results of operations; · changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; · our inability to disclose the commercial terms of, or progress under, our collaborations; · our ability (or lack thereof) to show and accurately predict revenues; and · sales of our ordinary shares. We are not and will not be able to control many of these factors, and we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our financial results will not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, has been experiencing extreme price and volume fluctuations that may be unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our operating performance. Furthermore, the market prices of equity securities of companies that have a significant presence in Israel may also be affected by the changing security situation in the Middle East and particularly in Israel. As a result, these companies may experience difficulties in raising additional financing required to effectively operate and grow their businesses. Such difficulties and the volatility of the securities market in general, and our share price in particular, may affect our ability to raise additional financing in the future. Thus, market and industry-wide fluctuations may adversely affect the trading price of our ordinary shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. Provisions of Israeli law may delay, prevent or affect a potential acquisition of all or a significant portion of our shares or assets and therefore depress the price of our shares. Israeli corporate law regulates mergers, requires that acquisitions of shares above specified thresholds be conducted through special tender offers, requires special approvals for transactions involving directors, officers or significant shareholders and regulates other matters that may be relevant to these types of transactions. For example, a merger may not be consummated unless at least 50 days have passed from the date that a merger proposal was filed by each merging company with the Israeli Registrar of Companies and at least 30 days have passed from the date that the shareholders of both merging companies approved the merger. In addition, a majority of each class of securities of the target company must approve a merger. Moreover, a full tender offer can only be completed if the acquiror owns, following consummation of the tender offer, at least 95% of the issued share capital, and the shareholders, including those who indicated their acceptance of the tender offer, may, at any time within three months following the completion of the tender offer, petition the court to alter the consideration for the acquisition. Israeli tax considerations may also make potential transactions unappealing to us or to our shareholders whose country of residence does not have a tax treaty with Israel exempting such shareholders from Israeli tax or who are not exempt under the provisions of the Israeli Income Tax Ordinance from Israeli capital gains tax on the sale of our shares. For example, Israeli tax law does not recognize tax-free share exchanges to the same extent as U.S. tax law. With respect to mergers, Israeli tax law allows for tax deferral in certain circumstances but makes the deferral contingent on the fulfillment of various conditions, including a holding period of two years from the date of the transaction during which sales and dispositions of shares of the participating companies are restricted. Moreover, with respect to certain share swap transactions, the tax deferral is limited in time, and when such time expires, the tax becomes payable even if no actual disposition of the shares has occurred. 20 Furthermore, under the Research Law, to which we are subject due to our receipt of OCS grants (as described above), a recipient of OCS grants such as us must report to the applicable authority of the OCS any change in the holding of the means of control of our company which transforms any non-Israeli citizen or resident into a direct interested party in our company. The OCS Guidelines interpretation issued by the OCS provides that prior OCS approval is required for such change in the holding of the means of control. These and other similar provisions could delay, prevent or impede an acquisition of us or our merger with another company, even if such an acquisition or merger would be beneficial to us or to our shareholders, and it may therefore limit the price that investors may be willing to pay in the future for our ordinary shares. For information about these limitations, see “Anti-Takeover Provisions under Israeli Law” under “Item 10. Additional Information.” Risks Relating to Operations in Israel Conditions in the Middle East and in Israel may harm our operations. Our offices and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors, as well as incidents of civil unrest, military conflicts and terrorist actions. In addition, Israel and companies doing business with Israel, have in the past, been the subject of an economic boycott. Any future armed conflicts or political instability in the region, as we have recently seen in Egypt and other neighboring Arab countries, may negatively affect business conditions and adversely affect our results of operations. Parties with whom we do business have sometimes declined to travel to Israel during periods of heightened unrest or tension, forcing us to make alternative arrangements when necessary. In addition, the political and security situation in Israel may result in parties with whom we have agreements involving performance in Israel claiming that they are not obligated to perform their commitments under those agreements pursuant to force majeure provisions in the agreements. We cannot give you any assurance that this will not continue to be the case. Additionally, if there were to be emergency conditions, some of our key employees may be called to active army duty for extended periods of time and that could adversely affect our operations. Our insurance does not cover losses that may occur as a result of events associated with the security situation in the Middle East. Although the Israeli government currently covers the reinstatement value of direct damages that are caused by terrorist attacks or acts of war, we cannot assure you that such government coverage will be maintained. Any losses or damages incurred by us could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any armed conflicts or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the devaluation of the dollar against the New Israeli Shekel. We hold most of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term bank deposits in U.S. dollars but incur a significant portion of our expenses, principally salaries and related personnel expenses and administrative expenses, in New Israeli Shekels. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that if the U.S. dollar devaluates against the NIS, as it did in 2008, 2009 and 2010 (by 1.1%, 0.7% and 6.0%, respectively) our NIS denominated expenses will be greater than anticipated when reported in U.S. dollars. Inflation in Israel compounds the adverse impact of such devaluation by further increasing the amount of our Israeli expenses. Israeli inflation may also (in the future) outweigh the positive effect of any appreciation of the U.S. dollar relative to the NIS, if, and to the extent that, it outpaces such appreciation or precedes such appreciation. The Israeli rate of inflation (3.8%, 3.9% and 2.7% in 2008, 2009 and 2010, respectively) has not had a material adverse effect on our financial condition during 2008, 2009 or 2010. The failure of our currency hedging arrangements to protect us from fluctuations in the exchange rates of the NIS in relation to the U.S. dollar, may expose us to material adverse effects from such movements. For more information, see Note 2s of our 2010 consolidated financial statements. 21 We may not continue to be entitled to certain tax benefits. We are entitled to certain tax benefits under Israeli government programs. The tax benefits are a function of the “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” status of our existing facilities in Israel as such terms are defined under the Israeli tax law and regulations. For more information, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects; Operating Results; Governmental Economic, Fiscal, Monetary or Political Policies that Materially Affected or Could Materially Affect Our Operations”. To date we have not received any such tax benefits because we have not yet generated any taxable income. To maintain our eligibility for such tax benefits, we must continue to meet certain conditions, including making specified investments in fixed assets and financing a percentage of investments with share capital. In December 2010, the “Knesset” (Israeli Parliament) passed the Law for Economic Policy for 2011 and 2012 (Amended Legislation), 2011, which prescribes, among others, amendments in the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 (“the Law”). The amendment became effective as of January 1, 2011. For more information, see Item 5, “Governmental Policies that Materially Affected or Could Materially Affect Our Operations” Based on our current “Approved Enterprise” and “Privileged Enterprise” status, we remain entitled to such tax benefits, but if we cease to maintain this status, we may be required to pay increased taxes on the taxable income that we may generate in the future. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, or our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities law claims in Israel. It may be difficult to obtain, within the United States, service of process upon us, since we are incorporated in Israel, and upon our directors and officers and our Israeli auditors, almost all of whom reside outside the United States. In addition, because substantially all of our assets and all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of our directors and officers may not be collectible within the United States and may not be enforced by an Israeli court. 