Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operation could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We have a history of operating and net losses. We may not operate profitably in the future. Although we reported a profit in 2004, we incurred operating and net losses in every other fiscal year from our inception, and we may incur losses in the future. We reported net losses of $7.7 million for 2003, $3.8 million for 2005 and $5.5 million for 2006. As of December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was $133.7 million. In order to meet expanding sales and operations requirements, our expenses may increase. As a result, net cash outflows may continue for the near term, and we may again incur net operating losses. If our sales do not increase or if our expenses increase at a greater pace than our revenues, continuing profitability may not be achieved. We may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Our products have lengthy sales cycles. This adds cost to our sales efforts and uncertainty as to their results. Our products have lengthy sales cycles. For example, it typically takes from six to twelve months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer. Because of this, we are often required to devote more time to, and spend more money on, marketing our products than would be necessary if sales were made more quickly. In some instances, we participate in competitive bids in tenders issued by existing or prospective customers. A tender process can continue for many months until a decision is made. The loss of one or more of our key customers would result in a loss of revenues. In certain fiscal quarters, relatively few customers have accounted for a large percentage of our revenues. During 2006, one customer represented 17% of our revenues. Our business may be seriously harmed if we experience a loss of any of our significant customers, or we suffer a substantial reduction in orders from these customers. The worldwide telecommunications industry is dominated by a small number of large corporations, and we expect that a significant portion of our future product sales per quarter will continue to be concentrated in a limited number of customers. In addition, our customers typically are not contractually obligated to purchase any quantity of products in any particular period and product sales to major customers have varied widely from period to period. The loss of any existing customer, a significant reduction in the level of sales to any existing customer, or our inability to gain additional customers could result in further declines in our revenues. If our revenues decline, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be harmed. 3 We are dependent upon sales of our FibeAir® family of products. Any reduction in demand for these products would cause our revenues to decrease. All of our revenues are generated from sales of a single family of products, known as FibeAir®. We expect sales of our FibeAir family of products to continue to account for all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are more likely to be adversely affected by a reduction in demand for these products than companies that sell multiple product families. We also may not succeed in reducing the risk associated with any slowdown in demand for our FibeAir products. We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products. This could result in a disruption in supply of these products. We outsource all of our manufacturing processes to contract manufacturers. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these contract manufacturers. We have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from these manufacturers. This could delay product shipments to our customers. Our manufacturers may themselves in the future experience other manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, quality problems and shortages could result in delayed deliveries, penalties, equipment replacement costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs. Moreover, qualifying new manufacturers and commencing volume production is expensive and time consuming. If we are required or choose to change manufacturers, our sales and our customer relationships may suffer. Our contract manufacturers obtain some of the components included in our products from a single source or a limited group of suppliers. If they lose any of these suppliers, we may experience production delays and a substantial loss of revenue. Our contract manufacturers currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are obtained from a single source supplier. Their dependence on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to the following risks: — The component suppliers could increase component prices significantly at any time and with immediate effect. This would increase component procurement costs and could result in reduced gross margins for us. — The component suppliers may themselves experience shortages in components and interrupt or delay their shipments to our manufacturers. This may delay our product shipments to our customers and result in penalties and/or cancellation of orders for our products. — The component suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. If this occurs and we or our manufacturers are unable to develop alternative sources for components, we might need to modify our products. This would likely interrupt the manufacturing process and could cause delays in our product shipments. Moreover, a significant modification in our product design may increase our manufacturing costs and force us to accept lower gross margins. — Our manufacturers may purchase more inventory than is immediately required to compensate for potential component shortages or discontinuation. Such inventory can become obsolete. Our business depends in part on sales to original equipment manufacturers. The success of the sales of our products currently depends in part on existing relationships with original equipment manufacturers, or OEMs, of telecommunications equipment. A portion of our systems is sold to and through such OEMs rather than directly to end users or indirectly through other channels. The sale of our products depends in part on the OEMs’ active marketing and sales efforts as well as the quality of their post-sale support. Sales through the OEMs’ channels expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our wireless products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, consolidation of some of these OEMs, financial problems they might encounter, or the promotion of competing products or emphasis on alternative technologies by these OEMs, turning them into competitors rather than partners. Any of the foregoing may result in decline in the purchase of our products. In addition, our efforts to increase sales may suffer from the lack of brand visibility resulting from OEMs’ sale of these products with their own brand names, or from our inability to enter into relationships with additional OEMs that would give us better penetration to existing and potential markets. On the other hand, increased sales through OEMs could have a negative effect on our profitability, due to the possible need to lower the prices at which we sell our products to our OEMs in order to allow them the profits that they deem reasonable. If any of these risks materialize, we will need to develop alternative methods of marketing these products. Until we do so, sales of our products may decline. 4 The creation of Nokia Siemens Networks may lead to fewer purchases of our products by Nokia Siemens Networks, which could result in decreased revenues. In January 2006, we entered into an OEM Purchase and Distribution Agreement (the “OEM Agreement”) with Nokia Corporation. Under the OEM Agreement, Nokia agreed to include Ceragon’s products with its microwave radio product portfolio as Nokia PowerHopper Vario to provide complete cellular transmission networking solutions. During 2006, sales to Nokia accounted for 17% of our revenues. In mid-2006, Nokia and Siemens formed a joint venture to merge the Networks Business Group of Nokia and the carrier-related operations of Siemens. Nokia Siemens Networks (“NSN”), as the new company is known, began operations in April 2007 and was assigned the OEM Agreement. Siemens has products and capabilities to develop products which compete with some of ours, but it is as yet unclear how the creation of NSN will affect purchases under the OEM Agreement. These effects can be on a regional basis, product basis or customer basis. If NSN decides to promote Siemens’ products rather than ours, it could become a competitor of ours in addition to, or instead of, being a strategic partner, with the result that our sales to NSN could decrease, and in turn our total revenues could decrease as well. Our business depends in part on sales of other companies’ products as an original equipment manufacturer. The success of the sales of our products currently depends in part on existing relationships with companies whose products we sell on an OEM basis. These companies have chosen to sell a portion of their systems through us in order to take advantage of our reputation and sales channels. The sale of these OEM products depends in part on the quality of the products, the ability of our OEM partners to deliver their products on time and their ability to provide both presale and post-sale support. Sales of OEM products expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our wireless products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, technical and financial problems these companies might encounter or the promotion of their products through other channels, turning them into competitors rather than partners. If any of these risks materialize, we will need to develop alternative sources for these OEM products. Until we do so, our revenues may decline. If sufficient demand for our wireless products does not develop, we will not be able to generate significant revenues and we may not be profitable on an annual basis. The acceptance of the wireless equipment which we and our competitors sell as a means of delivering data, video and voice traffic will depend upon numerous factors, including: — its capacity to handle growing volumes of traffic; — its cost effectiveness; — its reliability and security; — the availability of sufficient equipment, frequency bands and installation sites; and — its performance in extreme weather conditions. If our products do not address these factors in a manner which satisfies the requirements of prospective customers and end-users, the demand for our products may be adversely affected and we may not be able to generate significant revenues or operate profitably. 5 If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new and enhanced wireless products that keep pace with technological developments and our customers’ needs, our revenues may not increase. The market for our products is new and emerging. It is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: — develop and market new products in a timely manner to keep pace with developments in technology; — meet evolving customer requirements; — enhance our current product offerings; and — deliver products through appropriate distribution channels. We are continuously seeking to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Developing new products and product enhancements requires significant capital expenditures and research and development resources and we are, therefore, being much more selective in these investments. We may not be successful in enhancing our existing products or developing new products in response to technological advances or to satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. If our revenues continue to grow at rates similar to those in the past, we may face problems in managing the growth of the Company. Our revenues grew by 46.9% from 2005 to 2006, by 34.6% from 2004 to 2005, by 59.3% from 2003 to 2004 and 87.1% from 2002 to 2003. The number of units that we manufacture each year has grown at higher rates. While past performance is no guarantee of future achievement, if our growth continues at similar rates, we may face difficulties in coping with such growth. Our success in handling rapid growth will depend on our ability to: — streamline and automate processes in order to manufacture and deliver on time larger quantities of equipment than in previous years; — reduce the costs of manufacturing our products; — balance the need for additional employees with the need to minimize costs; and — maintain the capital resources needed to finance such growth. We face intense competition from other wireless equipment providers. Our failure to compete effectively could hurt our sales. The market for wireless equipment is rapidly evolving, fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Increased competition could result in reduced demand for our products, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business. A number of communications equipment suppliers, including (in alphabetical order) Alcatel-Lucent, Dragonwave, Harris Stratex Networks, Huawei Technologies, L.M. Ericsson, Motorola, NEC, Nera Networks, Nokia Siemens Networks, SIAE Microelettronica, and ZTE Corporation, as well as other companies offer or are developing products that may compete with our products. Some of our competitors are substantially larger than we are and have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, marketing, distribution, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we have. Consolidation among some of our competitors, as seen in the creation of Nokia Siemens Networks, the recent mergers of Alcatel and Lucent and of Harris and Stratex Networks and the acquisition by Ericsson of Marconi and Redback Networks, have increased the size and thus the competitive resources of these companies. Some also have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we have. Many of our competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers and have extensive knowledge of our target markets. Some of our competitors have product lines that compete with ours, and are also through which we market and sell our products on an OEM basis. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements, or to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures from both current and future competitors. In addition, current and potential competitors may make strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to gain market share rapidly. We also expect that industry consolidation will increase competition. 6 We believe that our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including price, quality, availability, manufacture by contract manufacturers, customer service and support, breadth of product line, product performance and features, rapid time-to-market delivery capabilities, reliability, timing of new product introductions by us, our customers and our competitors, and the ability of our customers to obtain financing. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution and customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully. Competition and current market conditions have resulted in downward pressure on the prices for our products, which could result in decreased revenues. We participate in a highly volatile industry that is characterized by vigorous competition for market share and rapid technological development. These factors have resulted in aggressive pricing practices and growing competition both from start-up companies and from well-capitalized telecommunication systems providers. Manufacturers of digital microwave telecommunications equipment are experiencing price pressure, which has resulted in downward pricing pressure on our products. Our future profitability is dependent upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new products and product enhancements. Pricing is affected by other factors as well, including but not limited to the size of a given transaction, the geographic location of the customer, the specific application for which products are sold, the channel through which products are sold, the competitive environment and the results of negotiation. Any inability by us to effectively respond to price pressures may harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also face intense competition from broadband technologies that compete with wireless transmission which could hurt our sales. Our products also compete to a certain extent with other high-speed communications solutions, including fiber optic lines, leased copper lines, free space optics, low- to medium-capacity point-to-point radios and other wireless technologies. Some of these technologies utilize existing installed infrastructure and have achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than high-capacity broadband wireless technologies. In addition, customers may wish to use transmission frequencies for which we do not offer products and, therefore, such customers turn to our competitors to fulfill such needs. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures from both current and future technologies in the broadband access market. Consolidation within the telecommunications industry and among suppliers could decrease our revenues. The telecommunications industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Other operators may merge and one or more of our competitors may supply products to such companies that have merged or will merge. This consolidation could result in purchasing decision delays by the merged companies and decrease opportunities for us to supply our products to the merged companies. We may also see similar consolidation among suppliers which may further decrease our opportunity to market and sell our products. Part of our inventory may be written off, thus adding to our cost of revenues. In 2005, we wrote off excess inventory resulting from our decision to terminate our legacy product line, close our in-house production facilities and transfer production activities to our contract manufacturers. The result of the write-off in 2005 was a one-time charge to cost of revenues of approximately $7.1 million. Inventory may again accumulate due to a variety of factors: (a) new generations of products replacing older ones, as was the case in 2005; (b) the need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate; and (c) changes in products because of technological advances and cost reduction measures. If inventory accumulates for any of these reasons, we may need to write off parts of our inventory again, thus adding to our cost of revenues and reducing our profitability. 7 Our products may contain defects that could harm our reputation, be costly to correct, expose us to litigation and harm our operating results. We and our customers have from time to time discovered defects in our products and additional defects may be found in the future. If defects are discovered, we may not be able to correct them in a timely manner or at all. Defects and failures in our products could result in a loss of, or a delay in, market acceptance of our products. In addition, defects in our products could cause adverse publicity, damage our reputation and impair our ability to acquire new customers. In addition, we may need to make significant capital expenditures to eliminate defects from our products or to replace defective equipment. Moreover, because our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend and could seriously damage our reputation and our business. Line-of-sight limitations inherent in wireless products may limit deployment options and have an adverse affect on our sales. Our wireless products require a direct line-of-sight between antennas, potentially limiting the ability of our customers to deploy them in a cost-effective manner. Because of line-of-sight limitations, service providers often install wireless equipment on the rooftops of buildings and on other tall structures. Communications service providers must generally secure roof rights from the owners of each building or other structure on which our products are installed. Any inability to obtain roof rights easily and cost effectively may cause a delay in deployment and increase the installation cost of our products or may cause customers not to choose to install wireless equipment. Due to uncertainty and possible delays in deployment of advanced cellular and other networks, our revenues could be lower than expected due to delayed purchasing decisions by cellular and other customers for our products. We have significantly increased sales to customers in the cellular market to support wireless requirements for third generation cellular networks. For sales in the cellular market, any delays by cellular providers in their third generation network deployment schedules could result in lower than expected revenues for us, since any such deployment schedule delays could result in delayed purchasing decisions by such customers. Due to the volume of our international sales, a significant portion of which are in emerging markets, we are susceptible to a number of political, economic and geographic risks that could harm our business if they occur. We are highly dependent on sales to customers outside the United States. We expect that international sales will continue to account for the majority of our sales for the foreseeable future. A significant portion of these sales are made in countries in south Asia, southeast Asia and Africa. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political, economic or geographic events that adversely affects our business could result in significant revenue shortfalls. Any such revenue shortfalls could cause our business, financial condition and results of operations to be harmed. The following are some of the risks and challenges of doing business internationally, several of which are more likely in the emerging markets than in other countries: — unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; — fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; 8 — imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; — management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; — burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; — general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; — longer sales cycles; — difficulties in protecting intellectual property; — laws and business practices favoring local competitors; — demand for high-volume purchases with discounted prices; — payment delays and uncertainties; and — war and acts of terrorism. The unpredictability of our quarter-to-quarter results may harm the trading price of our ordinary shares. Our quarterly operating results may vary significantly in the future for a variety of reasons, many of which are outside of our control, and any of which may harm our business. These factors include: — volume and timing of product orders received and delivered during the quarter; — our ability, and the ability of our contract manufacturers, to manufacture products on time; — our ability and the ability of our key suppliers to respond to changes made by customers in their orders; — timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; — changes in the mix of products sold by us; — cost and availability of components and subsystems; — downward pricing pressure on our products; — adoption of new technologies and industry standards; — competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products; — ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; — fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; — regulatory developments; and — general economic conditions in the United States and internationally. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and delays in product delivery or closing of a sale can cause revenues and net income to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. In addition, we may increase spending in response to competition or to pursue new market opportunities. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain profitability in the future, particularly on a quarter-to-quarter basis. Our stock price may be volatile, which may lead to losses by investors. Announcements of developments related to our business, announcements by competitors, quarterly fluctuations in our financial results and general conditions in the telecommunications industry in which we compete, or the economies of the countries in which we do business and other factors could cause the price of our ordinary shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially. In addition, recently, the stock market has experienced extreme price fluctuations, which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. These factors and fluctuations could lower the market price of our ordinary shares. 9 We are exposed to additional costs associated with complying with increasing and new regulation of corporate governance and disclosure standards. As a public company, we will be spending an increased amount of management time and resources to comply with changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations and Nasdaq Stock Market rules. Particularly, as a foreign private issuer, we need to comply with the provisions of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006. Section 404 requires management’s annual review and evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting and management’s attestation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting in connection with the filing of our annual report on Form 20-F for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. For each subsequently filed annual report on Form 20-F, we will also need the attestation of our independent public accounting firm of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. As part of this process, we will need to document and test our internal control systems and procedures and make improvements in order for us to comply with the requirements of Section 404. This process will result in additional accounting and legal expenses. In addition, if we are unable to implement required changes within the time limit imposed by Section 404, it could result in our being unable to obtain an unqualified report on internal controls from our independent auditors. If sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, and we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation by United States and foreign laws and international treaties. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of United States and international requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of such products. In addition, both in the United States and internationally, we are affected by the allocation and auction of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities. Such governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the unavailability of radio frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. In addition, to operate in a jurisdiction, we must obtain regulatory approval for our products. Each jurisdiction in which we market our products has its own regulations governing radio communications. Products that support emerging wireless telecommunications services can be marketed in a jurisdiction only if permitted by suitable frequency allocations and regulations, and the process of establishing new regulations is complex and lengthy. If we are unable to obtain sufficient allocation of radio frequency spectrum by the appropriate governmental authority or obtain the proper regulatory approval for our products, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be harmed. We are increasingly engaged in supplying post-delivery services to our customers, often in developing nations, which are subject to acceptance testing procedures. Any loss of products and delay or failure in such acceptance tests would significantly affect our revenues and operating expenses. In addition, we face intense competition from other equipment and services providers in supplying such services. Our failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our revenues. As we continue to expand our geographic footprint, we are increasingly engaged in supplying post-delivery services for our customers, often in developing nations. We may act as prime contractor and equipment supplier for network build-out projects and provide installation, supervision and testing services required for these projects or we may provide such services and equipment for projects handled by system integrators. We typically bear the risks of loss and damage and title to our products until the customer has issued an acceptance certificate upon successful completion of acceptance tests. If our products are damaged or stolen, or if the products do not pass the acceptance tests, the end user or the system integrator, as the case may be, could refuse to pay us and we would incur substantial costs, including fees owed to our subcontractors, increased insurance premiums, transportation costs, and expenses related to repairing or manufacturing the products. Moreover, in such a case, we may not be able to repossess the equipment, thus suffering additional losses. 10 The competition for providing the services described above to end users and system integrators is intense and is subject to factors similar to those described in the section above regarding competition from wireless equipment providers. We cannot assure you that we will have the financial resources, technical expertise, or marketing, sales, distribution and customer service and support capabilities to compete successfully. Our products operate primarily on government-licensed radio spectrum frequencies. If a customer or end-user of our products is unable to secure such a license, or if a holder of a license files for bankruptcy and its license is unavailable, such customer or end-user of our products may be unable to provide wireless communications services in the optimal transmission frequency and may not deploy a wireless network using our products. Our products operate primarily on government-licensed radio spectrum frequencies. Users of our products must either have a license to operate and provide communications services in the applicable frequency or must acquire the right to do so from another license holder. If unable to secure such a license, a customer or end-user may not deploy a wireless network using our products. If a license holder of such radio spectrum frequency files for liquidation, dissolution or bankruptcy, substantial time could pass before those licenses are transferred, canceled, reissued or made available by the applicable government licensing authority. Until the licenses are transferred, canceled, reissued or otherwise made available, other operators may be precluded from operating in such licensed frequencies, which could decrease demand for our products. In addition, if the authorities choose to revoke licenses for certain frequencies, demand for our products may decrease as well. If there is a change in government regulation, or if industry standards change, the potential markets for our products may become limited and we may need to modify our products. This may increase our product costs and adversely affect our ability to become profitable. The emergence or evolution of regulations and industry standards for wireless products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could require us to modify our systems. This may be expensive and time-consuming. Radio frequencies are subject to extensive regulation under the laws of the United States, foreign laws and international treaties. Each country has different regulations and regulatory processes for wireless communications equipment and uses of radio frequencies. Any failure by regulatory authorities to allocate suitable, sufficient radio frequencies to potential customers in a timely manner could negatively impact demand for our products and may result in the delay or loss of potential orders for our products. In addition, if new industry standards emerge that we do not anticipate, our products could be rendered obsolete. There may be regulatory restrictions imposed due to environmental or health concerns, such as restrictions imposed on the location and number of outdoor antennas. There may be health and safety risks relating to wireless products. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from cellular telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. Our products may not meet the new European governmental regulations, including environmental standards, required for their sale, which may negatively affect our sales. Our activities in Europe require that we comply with European Union Directives with respect to product quality assurance standards and environmental standards. Directive 2002/95/EC on Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “RoHS” Directive), requires products sold in Europe to meet certain design specifications, which exclude the use of hazardous substances, took effect on July 1, 2006 and requires that certain of our products be modified to meet this regulation. Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (known as the “WEEE” Directive) requires producers of electrical and electronic equipment to register in different European countries and provide collection and recycling facilities for used products. If we fail to achieve or maintain compliance, we may be restricted from selling our products in the European Union and this could adversely affect our results of operations. 11 If we are unable to continue to license technology from third parties on reasonable terms, we may be precluded from selling products derived from licensed technology and we may be required to reduce the functionality of our products. This may adversely affect our sales. We rely on technology that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. If we are unable to continue to license any of this software on commercially reasonable terms, we will face delays in releases of our products and may be required to reduce the operating capabilities of our products, for example, by reducing the number of operating systems on which our products operate, until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed or developed, and integrated into our current products. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, we may be deprived of legal recourse against those who misappropriate our intellectual property. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology in the United States and internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secrets, trademark, copyright and contractual rights to protect our intellectual property. In addition, we enter into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and appropriate customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot assure you that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. In the event that such intellectual property arrangements are insufficient, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under United States law. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. The wireless telecommunications industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. NEC Corporation, another telecommunications equipment provider, has asserted that we have been using its intellectual property in certain of our products, and we are in discussions concerning NEC’s allegation. We believe that our products do not infringe NEC’s patents and that we have meritorious defenses if infringement is alleged. However, we are not able to estimate the outcome of such discussions, including whether there could be an adverse effect on our business. We may in the future be notified that we are infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Such litigation or claim could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages, cease the licensing of allegedly infringing technology or the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to retain and attract personnel could harm our business, operations and product development efforts. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in all these areas. Competition for personnel in all of these areas is intense and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require is very competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel due to compensation or other factors, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. 12 Our non-competition agreements with employees may not be enforceable. If any of our employees leave us and join a competitor, our competitor could benefit from the expertise our former employee gained while working for us. Our non-competition agreements with permanent employees prohibit these employees from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. However, under current law or possible changes in the law, we may not be able to enforce these agreements to their fullest extent. If we are unable to enforce any of these agreements, our competitors may employ our former employees and benefit from the expertise our former employees gained while working for us. Due to the size of their shareholdings, some of our shareholders, including Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. This could delay or prevent actions that require shareholder approval. As of March 31, 2007, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, who are brothers that do not vote as a group and who do not have a voting agreement, beneficially owned, directly or through entities they control, an aggregate of 22.3% of the outstanding ordinary shares. As a result, these shareholders may significantly influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. For example, they may be able to delay or prevent a transaction in which shareholders might receive a premium over the prevailing market price for their shares or prevent changes in control or management. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates and potentially punitive interest charges on the proceeds of share sales. We do not believe that during 2006 we were a passive foreign investment company. Foreign companies may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company for U.S. federal income tax purposes if for any taxable year 75% or more of such company’s gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average value of all such company’s assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. These consequences may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. It is possible that the Internal Revenue Service will attempt to treat us as a PFIC for 2006 or prior years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2007 or in subsequent years. For a discussion of the rules relating to passive foreign investment companies and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “United States Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Risks Relating to Our Location in Israel Conditions in Israel may limit our ability to produce and sell our products. This could result in a decrease of our revenues. Our principal offices and research and development facilities, and the majority of our manufacturing facilities and subcontractors are located in Israel. Consequently, political, economic and military conditions in Israel could directly affect our operations. We could be adversely affected by any major hostilities involving Israel, including acts of terrorism or any other hostilities involving or threatening Israel, the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its trading partners, a significant increase in inflation or a significant downturn in the economic or financial condition of Israel. Since October 2000, there has been an increase in hostilities between Israel and the Palestinians, which has strained Israel’s relationship with its Arab citizens, Arab countries and, to some extent, with other countries around the world. The establishment in 2006 of a government in the Palestinian Authority by representatives of the Hamas militant group has created additional unrest and uncertainty in the region. Further, Israel was recently engaged in an armed conflict with Hezbollah, a Lebanese Islamist Shiite militia group, which involved thousands of missile strikes and disrupted most day-to-day civilian activity in northern Israel. Any armed conflicts, terrorist activities or political instability in the region would likely negatively affect business conditions and could harm our results of operations. 13 Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus, there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. We are also precluded from marketing our products to certain of these countries due to U.S. and Israeli regulatory restrictions. We believe that the boycott has not had a material adverse effect on us. However, the boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could adversely affect us. Some of our executive officers and employees in Israel are, unless exempt, obligated to perform annual military reserve duty, depending on their age and position in the army. Additionally, they may be called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our executive officers or key employees due to military service, and any significant disruption in our operations could harm our business. We believe that we have operated effectively given these requirements since we began operations. Nevertheless, the full impact on our workforce or business if some of our executive officers and employees will be called upon to perform military service, especially in times of national emergency, is difficult to predict. We do not believe that the political and security situation in Israel has had any material impact on our business to date. However, we can give no assurance that it will not have such an effect in the future. Since a majority of our revenues is generated in U.S. dollars while a portion of our expenses is incurred in new Israeli shekels, our results of operations would be adversely affected if inflation in Israel is not offset on a timely basis by a devaluation of the new Israeli shekel against the U.S. dollar, or if the NIS appreciates against the U.S. dollar. A majority of our revenues are in U.S. dollars, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related personnel expenses for Israeli employees and consultants, local vendors and subcontractors, are in NIS. As a result, we are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that the NIS will appreciate in relation to the dollar. In 2006, the NIS appreciated against the U.S. dollar by 8.2%. Either of these developments would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations and would, therefore, have an adverse effect on our dollar-measured results of operations. Since we received Israeli government grants for research and development expenditures, we are subject to ongoing restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. We have received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. In late December 2006, we entered into an agreement with the OCS to conclude our participation in such grant programs sponsored by the OCS and to repay approximately $11.9 million in outstanding grants owed to the OCS. However, the terms of these OCS grants, which limit our ability to manufacture products or transfer technologies outside of Israel, if such products or technologies were developed using know-how developed with or based upon OCS grants, continue to apply to us. If we elect to transfer more than an insubstantial portion of our manufacturing processes to contractors outside of Israel, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the OCS. In addition, any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our share capital is generally required to notify the OCS and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Investment Center of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor has granted “approved enterprise” status to investment programs at our manufacturing facility in Tel Aviv. When we begin to generate taxable income from these approved enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional five to eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, or fail to get approval in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for non-approved enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. 14 The tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs may be reduced or eliminated in the future. This would likely increase our tax liability. The Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs. Our approved program and tax benefits thereunder may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability. The amount, if any, by which our tax liability would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, and our officers and directors named in this annual report, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel and to serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon us, our Israeli subsidiaries and our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. We have been informed by our legal counsel in Israel, Goldfarb, Levy, Eran, Meiri & Co., that it may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, under the rules of private international law currently prevailing in Israel, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws and including a monetary or compensatory judgment in a non-civil matter, provided that: — the judgment is enforceable in the state in which it was given; — adequate service of process has been effected and the defendant has had a reasonable opportunity to present his arguments and evidence; — the judgment and its enforcement are not contrary to the law, public policy, security or sovereignty of the State of Israel; — the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and — an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. 15 Provisions of Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. The Companies Law generally provides that a merger be approved by the board of directors and by the shareholders by means of a majority of the shares present and voting on the proposed merger. The Companies Law has specific provisions for determining the majority of the shareholder vote. Upon the request of any creditor of a party to the proposed merger, a court may delay or prevent the merger if it concludes that there is a reasonable concern that, as a result of the merger, the surviving company will be unable to satisfy its obligations to creditors. In general, a merger may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In certain circumstances an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Lastly, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as stock-for-stock exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. These provisions of Israeli corporate and tax law may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us, which could depress our share price. 