RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Operations Maintaining our long-term growth objectives for oil production depends on our ability to successfully develop our reserves. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production is highly dependent upon our ability to successfully develop our existing reserves and, in the long term, to obtain additional reserves. The development of the sizable reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters, including the pre-salt reservoirs that have been granted to us by the Brazilian federal government, has demanded and will continue to demand significant capital investments. A primary operational challenge, particularly for the pre-salt reservoirs, will be (i) securing the critical resources that are necessary to meet our production targets, (ii) allocating our resources to build the necessary equipment and deploy such equipment at considerable distances from the shore and (iii) securing a qualified labor force and offshore oil services to develop reservoirs of such size and magnitude in a timely manner. We cannot guarantee that we will have or will be able to obtain, in the time frame that we expect, sufficient resources necessary to exploit the reservoirs in deep and ultra-deep waters that have been licensed and granted to us, or that may be licensed to us in the future, including as a result of the enactment of the new regulatory model for the oil and gas industry in Brazil. Our exploration activities also expose us to the inherent risks of drilling, including the risk that we may not discover commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reserves. The costs of drilling wells are often uncertain, and numerous factors beyond our control (such as unexpected drilling conditions, equipment failures or incidents, and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment) may cause drilling operations to be curtailed, delayed or cancelled. In addition, increased competition in the oil and gas sector in Brazil may increase the costs of obtaining additional acreage in bidding rounds for new concessions. We may not be able to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities of our large reservoirs in a timely manner. International prices of crude oil, oil products and natural gas may affect us differently than our competitors and may cause our results to differ from our competitors in periods of higher international prices. International prices for oil and oil products are volatile and have a significant effect on us. We may not adjust our prices for products sold in Brazil when the international prices of crude oil and oil products increase, or when the real depreciates in relation to the U.S. dollar, which could have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. The majority of our revenue is derived primarily from sales in Brazil of crude oil and oil products and, to a lesser extent, natural gas. Changes in crude oil prices typically result in changes in prices for oil products and natural gas. Historically, international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas have fluctuated widely as a result of many global and regional factors. Volatility and uncertainty in international prices for crude oil, oil products and natural gas may continue. For instance, on September 1, 2014, the Brent crude oil price per barrel was U.S.$101.37, while only five months later, on January 30, 2015, the Brent crude oil price per barrel was U.S.$50.77. 16 Table of Contents Our pricing policy in Brazil seeks to align the price of oil and oil products with international prices over the long term, however we do not necessarily adjust our prices for diesel, gasoline and other products to reflect oil price volatility in the international markets or short term movements in the value of the real. Based on the decisions of the Brazilian federal government, as our controlling shareholder, we have, and may continue to have, periods during which our product prices will not be at parity with international product prices (See “—Risks Relating to Our Relationship with the Brazilian Federal Government—The Brazilian federal government, as our controlling shareholder, may pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives through us that may have a material adverse effect on us.”). As a result, when we are a net importer by volume of oil and oil products to meet Brazilian demand, increases in the price of crude oil and oil products in the international markets may have a negative impact on our costs of sales and margins, since the cost to acquire such oil and oil products may exceed the price at which we are able to sell these products in Brazil. A similar effect occurs when the real depreciates in relation to the U.S. dollar, as we sell oil and oil products in Brazil in reais and international prices for crude oil and oil products are set in U.S. dollars. A depreciation of the real increases our cost of imported oil and oil products, without a corresponding increase in our revenues unless we are able to increase the price at which we sell products in Brazil. From the fourth quarter of 2010 through the third quarter of 2014, we sold some of our oil products (such as diesel and gasoline) at prices below international prices. We may not be able to fully offset the losses in our Brazilian downstream operations during this 2010-2014 period if we are unable to benefit from the current spread between low international crude oil prices and high Brazilian domestic oil product prices for an extended period of time. Substantial or extended declines in international crude oil prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and may also affect the value of our proved reserves. We have substantial liabilities and are exposed to short-term liquidity constraints, which could make it difficult for us to obtain financing for our planned investments and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In order to finance the capital expenditures needed to meet our long-term growth objectives for oil production, we have incurred a substantial amount of debt. As our cash flow from operations in recent years has not been sufficient to fund our capital expenditures, debt service and payment of dividends, our debt has significantly increased since 2010. Our total debt (including accrued interest) increased by 16% to U.S.$132,086 million as of December 31, 2014 from U.S.$114,236 million as of December 31, 2013. Our debt, net of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, increased by 12% to U.S.$106,108 million as of December 31, 2014 compared to U.S.$94,483 million as of December 31, 2013. 27% of our existing debt (principal), or U.S.$34.8 billion, will mature in the next three years. In order to develop our oil and natural gas reserves, maintain our ability to supply the Brazilian domestic market and amortize scheduled debt maturities, we will need to raise significant amounts of debt capital from a broad range of funding sources. To service our debt after meeting our capital expenditure targets, we have relied upon, and may continue to rely upon, a combination of cash flows provided by our operations, drawdowns under our available credit facilities, our cash and short-term financial investments balance and the incurrence of additional indebtedness. Credit rating agencies have recently expressed concerns regarding (i) liquidity pressures and our capacity to meet our principal and interest payment obligations maturing in the short- and medium-term, (ii) our negative free cash flow in the last few years primarily resulting from our significant capital expenditures, (iii) our ability to access any source of financing in the short-term; (iv) the total size of our debt, (v) the increase of our indebtedness over the last few years and (vi) the diversion of our management’s focus from our core business in order to manage issues related to the ongoing Lava Jato investigation. On February 24, 2015, we lost our Moody’s investment grade rating for all of our credit ratings. 17 Table of Contents If, for any reason, we are faced with continued difficulties in accessing debt financing, this could hamper our ability to achieve our long-term production targets and could impair our ability to timely meet our principal and interest payment obligations with our creditors, as our cash flow from operations is currently insufficient to fund such both planned capital expenditures and all of our debt service obligations. Additionally, any further lowering of our credit ratings may have adverse consequences on our ability to obtain financing or may impact our cost of financing, also making it more difficult or costly to refinance maturing obligations. Our inability to obtain financing on favorable terms could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. A further downgrade in our credit ratings may result in a less liquid market for our debt and equity securities, because certain institutions would be unable to purchase our securities, therefore reducing our investor base. As a result of the above, we may not be able to make the capital expenditures in the amounts needed to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If such constraints occur at a time when our cash flow from operations are less than the resources needed to fund our capital expenditures or to meet our principal and interest payments obligations, in order to provide additional liquidity to our operations, we could be forced to further reduce our planned capital expenditures and increase the numbers of assets to be sold under our divestment program. A reduction in our capital expenditure program or the sale of strategic assets under our divestment program could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. Despite the fact that the Brazilian federal government (as our controlling shareholder) is not responsible or liable for any of our liabilities – including those derived from the bonds we issue in the international capital markets – our credit rating is sensitive to any change in the Brazilian federal government credit rating. Any lowering of the Brazilian federal government credit ratings may have additional adverse consequences on our ability to obtain financing or our cost of financing, and consequently, on our results of operations and financial condition. We are vulnerable to increased debt service resulting from depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar and increases in prevailing market interest rates. As of December 31, 2014, approximately 82% of our financial debt liabilities were denominated in currencies other than the real. A substantial portion of our indebtedness is, and is expected to continue to be, denominated in or indexed to the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies. A depreciation of the real against these other currencies will increase our debt service, as the amount of reais necessary to pay principal and interest on foreign currency debt will increase with this depreciation. Considering the average exchange rate of each year, from 2003 to 2011, the real appreciated against U.S. dollar each year (by an average of 7% per year), except for 2009 (when it depreciated by 9%). In 2014 the real depreciated 9.1% against the U.S. dollar, compared to depreciation of 10.4% in 2013 and depreciation of 16.7% in 2012. Throughout 2015, the real has continued to depreciate against the U.S. dollar. Through April 30, 2015, it has depreciated by 12.7% compared to December 31, 2014. This foreign exchange variation will have an immediate impact on our reported income, except for a portion of our obligations denominated in U.S. dollars that are subject to our hedge accounting policy. Additionally, following a devaluation of the real, some of our operating expenses, capital expenditures, investments and import costs will increase. As most of our revenues are denominated in reais, unless we increase the prices of our products to reflect the depreciation of the real, our cash generation relative to our capacity to service debt may decline, impacting our cash balance. 18 Table of Contents As of December 31, 2014, approximately 50% of our total indebtedness consisted of floating rate debt. We generally do not enter into derivative contracts or similar financial instruments or make other arrangements with third parties to hedge against the risk of an increase in interest rates. Additionally, we have debt maturities that amount to U.S.$76.8 billion during the next five years, a portion of which may be refinanced by issuing new debt. To the extent that such floating rates rise, or the cost of debt increases when we refinance maturing obligations, we may incur additional expenses. The cost of any new indebtedness may also be negatively affected by the February 2015 downgrade of our credit ratings below investment grade by Moody’s and possible further downgrades. As we refinance our existing debt in the coming years, the mix of our indebtedness may change, specifically as it relates to the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates, the ratio of short-term to long-term debt, and the currencies in which our debt is denominated or to which it is indexed. Such changes will affect the composition of our debt and may increase our debt service payments, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We rely on key third-party suppliers and service providers to provide us with parts, components, services and critical resources that we need to operate our business and complete our major projects, which could be adversely affected by any failure or delay by such third parties in performing their obligations or any deterioration in the financial condition of such third parties. Our ability to maintain our long-term growth objectives for oil production depends upon successful delivery of major exploration and production projects. Failure to successfully deliver such major projects, or delays in doing so, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We rely upon various key third-party suppliers, vendors and service providers to provide us with parts, components, services and critical resources, which we need to operate and expand our business. If these key suppliers, vendors and service providers critically fail to deliver, or are delayed in delivering, equipment, service or critical resources to our major projects, we may not meet our operating targets in the time frame we expected. We may ultimately need to delay or suspend one or more of our major projects, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are susceptible to the risks of performance, product quality and financial condition of our key suppliers, vendors and service providers. For instance, their ability to adequately and timely provide us with parts, components, services and resources critical to our major projects may be affected if they are facing financial constrains or times of general financial stress and economic downturn. As a result of the ongoing Lava Jato investigation, a number of our Brazilian contractors and suppliers have been unable to secure financing and are currently facing liquidity and bankruptcy concerns that may affect their ability to continue as our key suppliers, vendors and service providers. Although we work closely with our key suppliers, vendors and service providers to avoid supply-related problems, there can be no assurance that we will not encounter supply disruptions in the future or that we will be able to timely replace such suppliers or service providers that are not able to meet our needs, which might adversely affect a timely and successful execution of our major projects, and consequently, our results of operations and financial condition. Currently, we are facing delays in the delivery of some key assets to meet our production targets and reach our long-term growth objectives for oil production. As a result, for instance, we have postponed the delivery of four FPSOs that had been scheduled to come on stream in 2016 (P-66, P-74, P-67 and P-65). 19 Table of Contents In addition, we have imposed a temporary suspension on the ability of companies belonging to 24 corporate groups to participate as suppliers and contractors in future bids for new contracts and services, while we and the Brazilian authorities analyze the involvement and participation of these companies in alleged illegal conduct in connection with the Lava Jato investigation. See Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information about the Lava Jato investigation. A number of these suppliers and contractors have historically acted as key suppliers, vendors and service providers for our major projects. There can be no assurance that these companies will be permitted to participate in our future major projects or that we will be able to replace such key suppliers, vendors and service providers with others that would be able to meet our needs, which could affect the successful and timely delivery of our major future projects, and consequently our results of operations and financial condition. We are also subject to Brazilian local content requirements arising out of our concession agreements, the Assignment Agreement and the Libra’s Production Sharing Agreement. These requirements, along with the temporary suspension of many of our local suppliers described above, could cause delays in some of our major projects if we are unable to timely replace Brazilian suppliers or service providers that fail to perform their obligations under our contracts. Unless ANP exempts us from complying with local content requirements, as to which there is no assurance, we could face delays or fines in the execution of our current major exploration and production projects. We are exposed to the credit risks of certain of our customers and associated risks of default. Any material nonpayment or nonperformance by some of our customers could adversely affect our cash flow, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers may experience financial constrains or liquidity issues that could have a significant negative effect on their creditworthiness. Severe financial issues encountered by our customers could limit our ability to collect amounts owed to us, or to enforce the performance of obligations owed to us under contractual arrangements. For instance, as of December 31, 2014, certain subsidiaries of Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A. – Eletrobras owed us U.S.$3.0 billion under energy supply agreements. In 2014, we recognized an allowance for impairment of trade receivables from the isolated electricity sector in the Northern region of Brazil (amounting to U.S.$1.9 billion), mostly to cover certain trade receivables due by Eletrobras’s subsidiaries. See Note 8.4 to our audited consolidated financial statements. In addition, many of our customers finance their activities through their cash flows from operations, the incurrence of short and long term debt or the issuance of debt. Declining financial results and economic conditions in Brazil, and resulting decreased cash flows, combined with a lack of debt or equity financing for our customers may affect us, since many of our customers are Brazilian, and may have significantly reduced liquidity and limited ability to make payments or perform their obligations to us. As we have not obtained any other guarantees to minimize our customers’ credit risk, their financial problems could result in a decrease in our operating cash flows and may also reduce or curtail our customers’ future demand for our products and services, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Exploration and production of oil in deep and ultra-deep waters involves risks. Exploration and production of oil involves risks that are increased when carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters. The majority of our exploration and production activities are carried out in deep and ultra-deep waters, and the proportion of our deepwater activities will remain constant or increase due to the location of our pre-salt reservoirs. Our activities, particularly in deep and ultra-deep waters, present several risks, such as the risk of oil spills, explosions on platforms and in drilling operations and natural disasters. The occurrence of any of these events or other incidents could result in personal injuries, loss of life, severe environmental damage with the resulting containment, clean-up and repair expenses, equipment damage and liability in civil and administrative proceedings. 20 Table of Contents Our insurance policies do not cover all liabilities, and insurance may not be available for all risks. There can be no assurance that incidents will not occur in the future, that insurance will adequately cover the entire scope or extent of our losses or that we will not be found liable in connection with claims arising from these and other events. Our crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates involve some degree of uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. Our proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and NGLs that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made) according to applicable regulations. Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. There are uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves related to prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices applicable to our production, which may lead us to make revisions to our reserve estimates. Downward revisions in our reserve estimates could lead to lower future production, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We do not own any of the subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil. Under Brazilian law, the Brazilian federal government owns all subsoil accumulations of crude oil and natural gas in Brazil and the concessionaire owns the oil and gas it produces from those subsoil accumulations pursuant to applicable agreements executed with the Brazilian federal government. We possess, as a concessionaire of certain oil and natural gas fields in Brazil, the exclusive right to develop the volumes of crude oil and natural gas included in our reserves pursuant to concession agreements, the Libra Production Sharing Agreement and the Assignment Agreement awarded to us by the Brazilian federal government, and except for the profit oil owed to the Brazilian federal government under the Libra Production Sharing Agreement, we own the hydrocarbons we produce under those contractual arrangements. Access to crude oil and natural gas reserves is essential to an oil and gas company’s sustained production and generation of income, and our ability to generate income would be adversely affected if the Brazilian federal government were to restrict or prevent us from exploiting these crude oil and natural gas reserves. In addition, we may be subject to fines by the ANP and our concessions, the Libra Production Sharing Agreement and the Assignment Agreement may be revoked if we do not comply with our obligations under such contractual arrangements. The Assignment Agreement we entered into with the Brazilian federal government is a related party transaction subject to future price readjustment. The transfer to us of oil and gas exploration and production rights related to specific pre-salt areas, subject to a maximum production of five billion boe, is governed by Law No. 12,276/2010 and by the Assignment Agreement, which is a contract between the Brazilian federal government, our controlling shareholder, and us. The negotiation of the Assignment Agreement involved significant issues, including (1) the area covered by the assignment of rights, consisting of exploratory blocks; (2) the volume, on a barrel of oil equivalent basis, that we can extract from this area; (3) the price to be paid for the assignment of rights; (4) the terms of any subsequent revision of the contract price and volume; and (5) the terms of the reallocation of volumes among the exploratory blocks assigned to us. 21 Table of Contents The Assignment Agreement includes provisions for a subsequent revision of the contract terms, including the price we paid for the rights we acquired. The future negotiation with the Brazilian federal government will be conducted in accordance with the terms of the Assignment Agreement and will be based on a number of factors, including assumptions regarding the timing of our oil and gas production, operating and investment costs, and the value of the crude oil at prevailing international prices at the time of the declaration of commerciality of the relevant pre-salt area. At the time the Assignment Agreement was negotiated, the initial contract price paid by us was based on an assumed Brent oil crude price of approximately U.S.$80 per barrel. Once the revision process is concluded pursuant to the terms of the Assignment Agreement, if the revised contract price is higher than the initial contract price, we will either make an additional payment to the Brazilian federal government or reduce the amount of barrels of oil equivalent subject to the Assignment Agreement. In December 2013, we began ongoing negotiations with the Brazilian federal government regarding the revision process of the Assignment Agreement. See Item 4. “Information on the Company—Exploration and Production-Santos Basin—Assignment Agreement” and Item 10. “Material contracts—Assignment Agreement” for further information. During the term of the Assignment Agreement, novel issues may arise in the implementation of the revision process and other provisions that could require further negotiations. Beginning June 2014, CNPE Resolution No. 01/2014 authorized the Brazilian federal government to directly engage Petrobras, under production sharing agreements, to produce oil, natural gas and fluid hydrocarbons in the Assignment Agreement areas at a volume exceeding the five bnboe maximum production originally agreed to under the Assignment Agreement. However, we have not initiated negotiations of the terms of these production sharing agreements and do not have an estimate of when these agreements may be executed, nor can we assure that their terms would be favorable to us. We are subject to numerous environmental, health and safety regulations and industry standards that are becoming more stringent and may result in increased capital and operating expenditures and decreased production. Our activities are subject to evolving industry standards and best practices, and a wide variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to the protection of human health, safety and the environment, both in Brazil and in other jurisdictions in which we operate. Particularly in Brazil, our oil and gas business is subject to extensive regulation by several governmental agencies, including the ANP, ANEEL, Agência Nacional de Transportes Aquaviários (Brazilian Water Transportation Agency), or ANTAQ and Agência Nacional de Transportes Terrestres (Brazilian Land Transportation Agency), or ANTT. Failure to observe or comply with these laws and regulations could result in penalties that could adversely affect our operations. In Brazil, for example, we could be exposed to administrative and criminal sanctions, including warnings, fines and closure orders for non-compliance with these environmental, health and safety regulations, which, among other things, limit or prohibit emissions or spills of toxic substances produced in connection with our operations. Waste disposal and emissions regulations may also require us to clean up or retrofit our facilities at significant costs and could result in substantial liabilities. The Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources, or IBAMA), the various Brazilian state environmental agencies and the ANP, among others, routinely inspect our facilities, and may impose fines, restrictions on operations, or other sanctions in connection with their inspections, including unexpected, temporary shutdowns and delays resulting in decreased production. In addition, we are subject to environmental laws that require us to incur significant costs to cover damage that a project may cause to the environment. These additional costs may have a negative impact on the profitability of the projects we intend to implement or may make such projects economically unfeasible. 22 Table of Contents As environmental, health and safety regulations become more stringent with evolving industry standards, and as new laws and regulations relating to climate change, including carbon controls, become applicable to us, it is possible that our capital expenditures and investments for compliance with such laws and regulations and industry standards will increase substantially in the future. In addition, if compliance with such laws, regulations and industry standards results in significant unplanned shutdowns, there could be a material adverse effect on our production. We also cannot guarantee that we will be able to maintain or renew our licenses and permits if they are revoked or if the applicable environmental authorities oppose or delay their issuance or renewal. Increased expenditures to comply with environmental, health and safety regulations to mitigate the environmental impact of our operations or to restore the biological and geological characteristics of the areas in which we operate may result in reductions in other strategic investments. Any substantial increase in expenditures for compliance with environmental, health or safety regulations or reduction in strategic investments and significant decreases in our production from unplanned shutdowns may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur losses and spend time and financial resources defending pending litigations and arbitrations. We are currently a party to numerous legal proceedings relating to civil, administrative, tax, labor, environmental and corporate claims filed against us. These claims involve substantial amounts of money and other remedies. Several individual disputes account for a significant part of the total amount of claims against us. See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” and Note 30 to our audited consolidated financial statements included in this annual report for a description of the legal proceedings to which we are subject. In the event that claims involving a material amount and for which we have no provisions were to be decided against us, or in the event that the losses estimated turn out to be significantly higher than the provisions made, the aggregate cost of unfavorable decisions could have a material adverse effect on results of operations and financial condition. We may also be subject to litigation and administrative proceedings in connection with our concessions and other government authorizations, which could result in the revocation of such concessions and government authorizations. In addition, our management may be required to direct its time and attention to defending these claims, which could prevent them from focusing on our core business. Depending on the outcome, litigation could result in restrictions on our operations and have a material adverse effect on some of our businesses. We are a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit and three individual actions by institutional investors, all in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (SDNY). See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” for a description of the U.S. securities class action litigation. Because the actions are in their early stages, the possible loss or range of losses, if any, arising from the litigation cannot be estimated, and consequently we have made no provisions with respect to this litigation. In the event that this litigation is decided against us, or we enter into an agreement to settle such matters, we may be required to pay substantial amounts. We are not insured against business interruption for our Brazilian operations, and most of our assets are not insured against war or sabotage. We do not maintain insurance coverage for business interruptions of any nature for our Brazilian operations, including business interruptions caused by labor action. If, for instance, our workers or those of our key third-party suppliers, vendors and service providers were to strike, the resulting work stoppages could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not insure most of our assets against war or sabotage. Therefore, an attack or an operational incident causing an interruption of our business could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 23 Table of Contents Developments in the oil and gas industry and other factors have resulted, and may result, in substantial write-downs of the carrying amount of certain of our assets, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. We evaluate on an annual basis, or more frequently where the circumstances require, the carrying amount of our assets for possible impairment. Our impairment tests are performed by a comparison of the carrying amount of an individual asset or a cash-generating unit with its recoverable amount. Whenever the recoverable amount of an individual asset or cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized to reduce the carrying amount to the recoverable amount. Changes in the economic, regulatory, business or political environment in Brazil or other markets where we operate, such as the recent significant decline in international crude oil and gas prices, the devaluation of the real and lower projected economic growth in Brazil, among other factors, may result in the recognition of impairment charges in certain of our assets. For example, in 2014, we recognized impairment charges of U.S.$16,823 million for certain of our property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and assets classified as held for sale. See Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Results of Operations-2014 compared to 2013”, Item 5. “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates” and Notes 5.2 and 14 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information about the impairment of certain of our assets. Future developments in the economic environment, in the oil and gas industry and other factors could result in further substantial impairment charges, adversely affecting our operating results and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents Compliance and Control Risks We are exposed to behaviors incompatible with our ethics and compliance standards, and failure to timely detect or remedy any such behavior may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our business, including relationships with third parties, is guided by ethical principles. We have adopted a Code of Ethics and a number of internal policies designed to guide our management, employees and contractors and reinforce our principles and rules for ethical behavior and professional conduct. We offer a confidential hotline, managed through our Ombudsman, for employees, contractors and other third parties. See Item 6. “Directors, Senior Management and Employees—Ombudsman.” We are subject to the risk that our employees, contractors or any person doing business with us may engage in fraudulent activity, corruption or bribery, circumvent or override our internal controls and procedures or misappropriate or manipulate our assets for their personal or business advantage to our detriment. This risk is heightened by the fact that we have a large number of complex, valuable contracts with local and foreign suppliers, as well as the geographic distribution of our operations and the wide variety of counterparties involved in our business. We have in place a number of systems for identifying, monitoring and mitigating these risks, but our systems may not be effective. It is difficult for us to ensure that all of our employees and contractors, totaling over 371,000, will comply with our ethical principles. Any failure – real or perceived – to follow these principles or to comply with applicable governance or regulatory obligations could harm our reputation, limit our ability to obtain financing and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our management has identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2014, which may have a material adverse result on our results of operation and financial condition. Our management identified a number of material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in 2014. For example, management overrides by certain former Petrobras personnel relating to our large investment projects in the Exploration and Production, Refining, and Gas and Power business segments did not comply with our existing internal controls over the process of contracting for services in these segments. In addition, our management identified material weaknesses related to (i) internal controls over property, plant and equipment (specifically with respect to the evaluation of the financial condition of our contractors and suppliers, termination costs and write-downs of payments made in advance, among others), (ii) the review and approval of manual journal entries, and (iii) managing access to critical transactions in our systems and segregation of duties. As a result, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective at December 31, 2014. Although we have developed and implemented several measures to remedy these material weaknesses, we cannot be certain that there will be no other material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. For more information about these matters, see Item 15. “Controls and Procedures—Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.” If our efforts to remediate the material weaknesses are not successful, we may be unable to report our results of operations for future periods accurately and in a timely manner and make our required filings with government authorities, including the SEC. There is also a risk that there could be accounting errors in our financial reporting, and we cannot be certain that in the future additional material weaknesses will not exist or otherwise be discovered. Any of these occurrences could adversely affect our business and operating results and could generate negative market reactions, potentially leading to a decline in the price of our shares, ADSs and debt securities. 25 Table of Contents Ongoing SEC and DoJ investigations regarding the possibility of non-compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could adversely affect us. Violations of this or other laws may require us to pay fines and expose us and our employees to criminal sanctions and civil suits. In November 2014, we received a subpoena from the SEC requesting certain documents and information about us relating to, among other things, the Lava Jato investigation and any allegations regarding a violation of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The DoJ is conducting a similar inquiry, and we are voluntarily cooperating with both investigations. The internal investigation and related government inquiries concerning these matters remain ongoing, and it is still not possible to estimate the duration, scope or results of the internal investigation or related inquiries by relevant authorities. While we are cooperating fully with both investigations, adverse developments in connection with these investigations, including any expansion of the scope of the investigations, could negatively impact us and could divert the efforts and attention of our management team from our ordinary business operations. In connection with any SEC or DoJ investigation, there can be no assurance that we will not be required to pay penalties or provide other financial relief, or consent to injunctions or orders on future conduct or suffer other penalties, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. See “Item 8. – Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Our methodology to estimate the incorrectly capitalized overpayments, uncovered in the context of the Lava Jato investigation, involves some degree of uncertainty. If substantive additional information comes to light in the future that would make our estimate for the overstatements of our assets appear, in retrospect, to have been materially underestimated or overestimated, this could require a restatement of our financial statements and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the market value of our securities. As a result of the findings of the Lava Jato investigation, in the third quarter ended September 30, 2014, we wrote off U.S.$2,527 million of capitalized costs representing amounts that Petrobras overpaid for the acquisition of property, plant and equipment in prior years. According to testimony from Brazilian criminal investigations that became available beginning October 2014, senior Petrobras personnel conspired with contractors, suppliers and others, from 2004 through April 2012, to establish and implement an illegal cartel that systematically overcharged us in connection with the acquisition of property, plant and equipment. In addition to the payment scheme, the investigations identified several specific instances of other contractors and suppliers that allegedly overcharged Petrobras and used the overpayment received from their contracts with us to fund improper payments, unrelated to the payment scheme, to certain Petrobras employees, including the former Petrobras personnel and a former Chief International Officer. See “Explanatory Note” and Note 3 to our audited consolidated financial statements for further information about the Lava Jato investigation, the overpayments charged by certain contractors and suppliers to Petrobras and our methodology to estimate the overstatement of our assets. We concluded that a portion of our costs incurred to build property, plant and equipment that resulted from contractors and suppliers in the cartel overcharging us to make improper payments should not have been capitalized in our historical costs of property, plant and equipment. As it is impracticable to identify the specific periods and amounts for the overpayments made by us, we considered all the available information to determine the impact of the overpayments charged to us. As a result, to account for these overpayments, we developed a methodology to estimate the aggregate amount that we overpaid under the payment scheme, in order to determine the amount of the write-off representing the overstatement of our assets resulting from overpayments used to fund improper payments. 26 Table of Contents The Lava Jato investigation is still ongoing and it could be a significant amount of time before the Brazilian federal prosecutors conclude their investigation. As a result of this investigation, substantive additional information might come to light in the future that would make our estimate for overpayments appear, in retrospect, to have been materially low or high, which may require us to restate our financial statements to further adjust the write-offs representing the overstatement of our assets recognized in our interim consolidated financial statements for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014. We believe that we have used the most appropriate methodology and assumptions to determine the amounts of overpayments incorrectly capitalized based on the information available to us, but our estimation methodology involves some degree of uncertainty. There can be no assurance that the write-offs representing the overstatement of our assets, determined using our estimation methodology, and recognized in our interim consolidated financial statements for the nine-month period ended September 30, 2014, are not underestimated or overestimated. In the event that we are required to write-off additional historical costs from our property, plant and equipment or to reverse write-offs previously recognized in our financial statements, this might impact the total value of our assets and we may be subject to negative publicity, credit rating downgrades, or other negative material events, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition and affect the market value of our securities. Risks Relating to Our Relationship with the Brazilian Federal Government The Brazilian federal government, as our controlling shareholder, may pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives through us that may have a material adverse effect on us. As our controlling shareholder, the Brazilian federal government has pursued, and may pursue in the future, certain of its macroeconomic and social objectives through us, as permitted by law. Brazilian law requires that the Brazilian federal government own a majority of our voting stock, and so long as it does, the Brazilian federal government will have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and, through them, a majority of the executive officers who are responsible for our day-to-day management. As a result, we may engage in activities that give preference to the objectives of the Brazilian federal government rather than to our own economic and business objectives. Accordingly, we may make investments, incur costs and engage in sales with parties or on terms that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In particular, we continue to assist the Brazilian federal government in ensuring that the supply and pricing of crude oil and oil products in Brazil meets Brazilian consumption requirements. Prior to January 2002, prices for crude oil and oil products were regulated by the Brazilian federal government, occasionally set below prices prevailing in the world oil markets. We cannot assure you that price controls will not be reinstated in Brazil. Our investment budget is subject to approval by the Brazilian federal government, and failure to obtain approval of our planned investments could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Brazilian federal government maintains control over our investment budget and establishes limits on our investments and long-term debt. As a state-controlled entity, we must submit our proposed annual budgets to the MPBM, the MME and the Brazilian Congress for approval. Our approved budget may reduce our proposed investments and incurrence of new debt, and we may be unable to obtain financing that does not require Brazilian federal government approval. As a result, we may not be able to make all the investments we envision, including those we have agreed to make to expand and develop our crude oil and natural gas fields, which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 27 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian political and economic conditions and investor perception of these conditions have a direct impact on our business and may have a material adverse effect on us. The Brazilian federal government’s economic policies may have important effects on Brazilian companies, including us, and on market conditions and prices of Brazilian securities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors and the Brazilian federal government’s response to these factors: · exchange rate movements and volatility; · inflation; · financing of government current account deficit; · price instability; · interest rates; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · tax policy; · regulatory policy for the oil and gas industry, including pricing policy; · allegations of corruption against political parties, elected officials or other public officials, including allegations made in relation to the Lava Jato investigation; and · other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian federal government will implement changes in policy or regulations that may affect any of the factors mentioned above or other factors in the future may lead to economic uncertainty in Brazil and increase the volatility of the Brazilian securities market and securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Historically, the country’s political scenario has influenced the performance of the Brazilian economy and political crises have affected the confidence of investors and the general public, which resulted in economic deceleration and heightened volatility in the securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. Currently, Brazilian markets are experiencing heightened volatility due to the uncertainties derived from the ongoing Lava Jato investigation and its impacts on the Brazilian economy and political environment. Although Brazilian authorities have publicly described Petrobras as a victim of the alleged illegal conduct identified during the Lava Jato investigation, at this stage of the investigation, any developments in the Lava Jato investigation (foreseeable and unforeseeable) could have a material adverse effect on the Brazilian economy and on our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, since 2011, Brazil has been experiencing an economic slowdown. Gross Domestic Product, or GDP, growth rates were 0.1% in 2014, 2.7% in 2013, 1.8% in 2012 and 3.9% in 2011, compared to a GDP growth of 7.5% in 2010. Our results of operations and financial condition have been, and will continue to be, affected by the growth rate of GDP in Brazil because a substantial portion of our oil products are sold in Brazil. We cannot assure that GDP will increase or remain stable in the future. Future developments in the Brazilian economy may affect Brazil’s growth rates and, consequently, the consumption of our oil products. As a result, these developments could impair our results of operations and financial condition. 28 Table of Contents Allegations of political corruption against the Brazilian federal government and the Brazilian legislative branch could create economic and political instability. In the past, members of the federal government and the Brazilian legislative branch have faced allegations of political corruption. As a result, a number of politicians, including senior federal officials and congressman, resigned or have been arrested. Currently, elected officials and other public officials in Brazil are being investigated for allegations of unethical and illegal conduct identified during the Lava Jato investigation being conducted by the Office of the Brazilian Federal Prosecutor. The potential outcome of these investigations is unknown, but they have already had an adverse impact on the image and reputation of the implicated companies (including Petrobras), in addition to the adverse impact on general market perception of the Brazilian economy. These proceedings, their conclusions or further allegations of illicit conduct could have additional adverse effects on the Brazilian economy. We cannot predict whether such allegations will lead to further instability or whether new allegations against Brazilian government officials will arise in the future. In addition, we cannot predict the outcome of any such allegations nor their effect on the Brazilian economy. Inflation, and the Brazilian government’s measures to combat inflation, may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil, and may materially adversely affect us. Brazil has historically experienced high rates of inflation, particularly prior to 1995. Inflation, as well as government efforts to combat inflation, had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. More recently, inflation rates were 6.41% in 2014, 5.91% in 2013 and 5.84% in 2012, as measured by the IPCA, the National Consumer Price Index, compiled by IBGE (Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics). Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in the future. The Brazilian government may introduce policies to reduce inflationary pressures, which could have the effect of reducing the overall performance of the Brazilian economy. Some of these policies may have an effect on our ability to access foreign capital or reduce our ability to execute our future business and management plans, particularly for those projects that rely on foreign partners. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high real interest rates. These policies have contributed to limiting the size and attractiveness of the local debt markets, requiring borrowers like us to seek foreign currency funding in the international capital markets. To the extent that there is economic uncertainty in Brazil, which weakens our ability to obtain external financing on favorable terms, the local Brazilian market may be insufficient to meet our financing needs, which in turn may materially adversely affect us. Risks Relating to Our Equity and Debt Securities The size, volatility, liquidity or regulation of the Brazilian securities markets may curb the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs. Petrobras shares are among the most liquid traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange, or BM&FBOVESPA, but overall, the Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States and other jurisdictions, and may be regulated differently from the way in which U.S. investors are accustomed. Factors that may specifically affect the Brazilian equity markets may limit the ability of holders of ADSs to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs at the price and time they desire. 29 Table of Contents The market for PGF’s debt securities may not be liquid. Some of PGF’s notes are not listed on any securities exchange and are not quoted through an automated quotation system. PGF’s notes are currently listed both on the New York Stock Exchange and the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and trade on the NYSE Euronext and Euro MTF market, respectively. PGF can issue new notes that can be listed in markets other than the New York Stock Exchange and the Luxembourg Stock Exchange and traded in markets other than the NYSE Euronext and the Euro MTF market. We can make no assurance as to the liquidity of or trading markets for PGF’s notes. We cannot guarantee that the holders of PGF’s notes will be able to sell their notes in the future. If a market for PGF’s notes does not develop, holders of PGF’s notes may not be able to resell the notes for an extended period of time, if at all. Holders of our ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs who are residents of the United States may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common or preferred shares relating to these preemptive rights, and therefore we may not file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, The Bank of New York Mellon, as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and holders of ADSs will be entitled to receive the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the depositary cannot sell them. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation—Preemptive Rights.” If holders of our ADSs exchange their ADSs for common or preferred shares, they risk losing the ability to timely remit foreign currency abroad and forfeiting Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for our common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank of Brazil to be entitled to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends and other distributions relating to our preferred and common shares or upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares. Such remittances under an ADR program are subject to a specific tax treatment in Brazil that may be more favorable to a foreign investor if compared to remitting gains originated from securities directly acquired by the investor in the Brazilian regulated stock markets. Therefore, an investor who opts to exchange ADSs for the underlying common or preferred share may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to these investments. The exchange of ADSs for the underlying common or preferred shares is governed by CMN Resolution No. 4,373 and foreign investors who intend to do so are required to appoint a representative in Brazil for the purposes of Annex I of CMN Resolution No. 4,373, who will be in charge for keeping and updating the investors’ certificates of registrations with the Central Bank of Brazil, which entitles registered foreign investors to buy and sell directly on the BM&FBOVESPA. Such arrangements may require additional expenses from the foreign investor. Moreover, if such representatives fail to obtain or update the relevant certificates of registration, investors may incur in additional expenses or be subject to operational delays which could affect their ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares or the return of their capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration or any foreign capital registration directly obtained by such holders may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes, and we cannot assure such holders that additional restrictions applicable to them, the disposition of the underlying common or preferred shares, or the repatriation of the proceeds from the process will not be imposed in the future. 30 Table of Contents Holders of our ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and Brazilian Corporate Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States or elsewhere outside Brazil. In addition, the rights of an ADS holder, which are derivative of the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to protect their interests against actions by our board of directors are different under Brazilian Corporate Law than under the laws of other jurisdictions. Rules against insider trading and self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may also be different in Brazil than in the United States. In addition, shareholders in Brazilian companies ordinarily do not have standing to bring a class action, and under Petrobras’s by-laws must, generally with respect to disputes concerning rules regarding the operation of the capital markets, arbitrate any such claims. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation—Dispute Resolution.” We are a state-controlled company organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of ADSs to effect service of process upon us or our directors and officers within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain requirements are met, holders of ADSs may face greater difficulties in protecting their interest in actions against us or our directors and officers than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction of the United States. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same voting rights as our shareholders. In addition, holders of ADSs representing preferred shares do not have voting rights. Holders of our ADSs do not have the same voting rights as holders of our shares. Holders of our ADSs are entitled to the contractual rights set forth for their benefit under the deposit agreements. ADS holders exercise voting rights by providing instructions to the depositary, as opposed to attending shareholders meetings or voting by other means available to shareholders. In practice, the ability of a holder of ADSs to instruct the depositary as to voting will depend on the timing and procedures for providing instructions to the depositary, either directly or through the holder’s custodian and clearing system. In addition, a portion of our ADSs represents our preferred shares. Under Brazilian law and our bylaws, holders of preferred shares do not have the right to vote in shareholders’ meetings. This means, among other things, that holders of ADSs representing preferred shares are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions or decisions. We would be required to pay judgments of Brazilian courts enforcing our obligations under the guaranty relating to PGF’s notes only in reais. If proceedings were brought in Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the guaranty relating to PGF’s notes, we would be required to discharge our obligations only in reais. Under Brazilian exchange controls, an obligation to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais, which is payable in Brazil pursuant to a decision of a Brazilian court, may be satisfied in reais at the rate of exchange, as determined by the Central Bank of Brazil, in effect on the date of payment. 31 Table of Contents A finding that we are subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws and that the guaranty executed by us was a fraudulent conveyance could result in PGF noteholders losing their legal claim against us. PGF’s obligation to make payments on the PGF notes is supported by our obligation under the corresponding guaranty. We have been advised by our external U.S. counsel that the guaranty is valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and the United States. In addition, we have been advised by our general counsel that the laws of Brazil do not prevent the guaranty from being valid, binding and enforceable against us in accordance with its terms. In the event that U.S. federal fraudulent conveyance or similar laws are applied to the guaranty, and we, at the time we entered into the relevant guaranty: · were or are insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of our entry into such guaranty; · were or are engaged in business or transactions for which the assets remaining with us constituted unreasonably small capital; or · intended to incur or incurred, or believed or believe that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature; and · in each case, intended to receive or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor, then our obligations under the guaranty could be avoided, or claims with respect to that agreement could be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. Among other things, a legal challenge to the guaranty on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us as a result of the issuance of the PGF notes. To the extent that the guaranty is held to be a fraudulent conveyance or unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the PGF notes would not have a claim against us under the relevant guaranty and would solely have a claim against PGF. We cannot assure you that, after providing for all prior claims, there will be sufficient assets to satisfy the claims of the PGF noteholders relating to any avoided portion of the guaranty. Holders in some jurisdictions may not receive payment of gross-up amounts for withholding pursuant to the European Council Directive 2003/48/EC on the taxation of savings income. Austria has opted out of certain exchange of information provisions of the European Council Directive 2003/48/EC on the taxation of savings income (the Directive) and is instead, during a transitional period, applying a withholding tax on payments of interest, at a rate of up to 35%, made by a paying agent within those jurisdictions to, or collected by such a paying agent for, an individual beneficial owner resident in other member states of the European Union (EU Member States) or to certain limited types of entities established in other Member States unless the beneficial owner of the interest payments opts for exchange of information as required under the Directive. Neither we nor the paying agent (nor any other person) would be required to pay additional amounts in respect of the notes as a result of the imposition of withholding tax by any EU Member State or another country or territory which has opted for a withholding system. For more information, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Taxation Relating to PGF’s Notes—European Union Savings Directive.” An investor should consult a tax adviser to determine the tax consequences of holding PGF’s notes for such investor. 32 Table of Contents 