Risk Factors The following risk factors, among others, could affect our actual results of operations and cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements made by us. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and we assume no obligation to update this information. You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained elsewhere in this annual report. The following risk factors are not the only risk factors facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also affect our business. Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be seriously harmed if any of the events underlying any of these risks or uncertainties actually occur. In that event, the market price for our ordinary shares could decline. Risks Relating to Our Business We face intense competition from other wireless equipment providers. If we fail to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. The market for wireless equipment is rapidly evolving, fragmented, highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. Increased competition, which may differ from region to region, in the wireless equipment market could result in reduced demand for our products, price reductions and reduced gross margins, any of which could seriously harm our business and results of operations. Our primary competitors include industry “generalists” such as Alcatel-Lucent, Fujitsu Limited, Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd., L.M. Ericsson Telephone Company, NEC Corporation (NEC), Nokia Siemens Networks B.V. (NSN) and ZTE Corporation. In addition to these primary competitors, a number of small “specialist” microwave communications equipment suppliers, including Aviat Networks (formerly known as Harris Stratex Networks, Inc.), DragonWave Inc., and SIAE Microelectronica S.p.A., offer or are developing products that compete with our products. Some of our competitors are original equipment manufacturers through whom we market and sell our products, which means our business success may depend on these competitors to some extent. 3 Most of our principal competitors are substantially larger than we are and have longer operating histories and greater financial, sales, service, marketing, distribution, technical, manufacturing and other resources than we have. They also have greater name recognition and a larger customer base than we have. Many of these competitors have well-established relationships with our current and potential customers, have extensive knowledge of our target markets, and have begun to focus more on selling services and bundling the entire network as a full-package offering. As a result, our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to evolving industry standards and changes in customer requirements, or devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products than we can. In addition, our competitors, especially those from China, may be able to offer customers financing that would increase the attractiveness of their products in comparison to ours. Additionally, the telecommunications equipment industry has experienced significant consolidation among its participants, and we expect this trend to continue. Recent examples include our acquisition of Nera Networks AS (“Nera”) in January 2011 and DragonWave’s recent announcement of its intention to purchase the microwave division of NSN, which itself was formed as a joint venture between Nokia and Siemens. Other examples include the mergers of Alcatel and Lucent and the wireless divisions of Harris and Stratex Networks, and the acquisition by Ericsson of Marconi. These consolidations have increased the size and thus the competitive resources of these companies. In the future, current and potential competitors may make additional strategic acquisitions or establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties that may allow them to increase their market share and competitive position. We expect to face increasing competitive pressures in the future. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our recent acquisition of Nera exposes us to risks and liabilities. The Nera Acquisition was our first acquisition involving significant international operations. Although the integration of the Nera business has been completed, we expect that other aspects of the integration will continue to be a complex and time-consuming and may also be a costly process involving both typical and unique acquisition risks and related challenges, some of which are discussed below: • assessing and maintaining the combined company’s internal control over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures as required by U.S. securities laws; • the possibility that we may be required to expend material sums on potential contingent tax, litigation or other liabilities associated with Nera’s prior operations or facilities; • the possibility that we may not be able to collect a portion of Nera's customers' debts or may be subject to penalties or other financial exposures towards a few of Nera's customers because of political, commercial or other reasons; • greater cash management, exchange rate, legal and taxation risks associated with the combined company’s new multinational character and the movement of cash between Ceragon and its foreign subsidiaries; • managing geographically dispersed personnel with diverse cultural backgrounds and organizational structures; and • the Nera Acquisition may create or result in additional liquidity needs, including to support a much larger and more dispersed business organization. In acquiring Nera, we undertook a number of identified contingent liabilities of Nera, such as various known litigations with third parties, and other contingent exposures with customers, suppliers and employees, all of which could accumulate to a substantial amount. In addition, we may be exposed to potential tax liabilities worldwide with governmental authorities, any of which could result in a substantial amount. We also undertook certain exposures for penalties and other financial risks towards a few of Nera's customers in the event of a default by us due to commercial or political circumstances, which may not be under our control. We assessed these contingent liabilities in the purchase price allocation. 4 However, our assessment of such contingent liabilities may not have been accurate and we may be exposed to actual payments which may be significantly higher than we assessed which could result in the Nera Acquisition being substantially more expensive than originally estimated, may not be fully covered by the seller’s indemnification or by the insurance we purchased and would negatively affect results of our operations and financial condition. In addition, the accounting treatment for the Nera acquisition resulted in $13.4 million of amortizable intangible assets and $14.6 million of goodwill, which, if impaired, would negatively affect our consolidated results of operations. Global competition and current market conditions have resulted in downward pressure on the prices for our products, which could result in reduced revenues, gross margins and profitability. Currently, we and other manufacturers of telecommunications equipment are experiencing, and are likely to continue to experience, declining sales prices. This price pressure is likely to result in downward pricing pressure on our products and services. As a result, we are likely to continue to experience declining average sales prices for our products. Our future profitability will depend upon our ability to improve manufacturing efficiencies, reduce costs of materials used in our products, and to continue to introduce new lower-cost products and product enhancements. If we are unable to respond to increased price competition, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be harmed. Because customers frequently negotiate supply arrangements far in advance of delivery dates, we may be required to commit to price reductions for our products before we are aware of how, or if, cost reductions can be obtained. As a result, current or future price reduction commitments and any inability on our part to respond to increased price competition could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, following our acquisition of Nera, we have increased sales of our products in Latin America and Africa, regions typically characterized, along with India, as having strong downward pricing pressures, in response to the rapid build-out of cellular networks in those regions. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2011 7% and 23%, respectively, of our revenues were earned in Latin America, the majority of which was derived from a single customer group, 4% and 17%, respectively, were earned in Africa and 38% and 10%, respectively, were earned in India. We expect that our revenues from sales of our products in Latin America, Africa and India will continue to constitute a significant portion of our business in the future. . If we are unable to effectively respond to these pricing pressures, our revenues, gross margin and profitability could be materially reduced, and our gross margins could continue to be reduced. We are dependent upon sales of our single family of products into a single market. Any reduction in demand for these products in this market would cause our revenues to decrease. We design, develop, manufacture and sell nearly all of our products to meet high-capacity point-to-point wireless backhaul needs. Nearly all of our revenues are generated from sales of our single portfolio of products which are developed through our two Solution Groups: Long Haul and Short Haul. We expect sales of our single portfolio of products to continue to account for nearly all of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are more likely to be adversely affected by a reduction in demand for point-to-point wireless backhaul products than companies that sell multiple and diversified product lines or into multiple markets. A single customer group represented a significant portion of our revenues in 2011, and if we were to lose this customer group or experience any material reduction in orders from this customer group, our revenues and operating results would suffer. In 2011, we had revenues from a single group of affiliated companies, which has been a long-term customer of Nera prior to the acquisition that accounted for approximately 13.4% of our total revenue. We have entered into or received purchase orders from a number of related companies in this group of companies. Our sales are generally made from standard purchase orders rather than long-term contracts. Accordingly, this customer group may generally terminate or reduce its purchases from us at any time without notice or penalty. The loss of this customer group or any material reduction in orders from this customer group could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. 5 We rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture our products and if they experience delays, disruptions, quality control problems or a loss in capacity, it could materially adversely affect our operating results. While a portion of our manufacturing is performed in our production facility in Slovakia which was acquired in the Nera Acquisition, we outsource most of our manufacturing processes to a limited number of contract manufacturers that are located in Israel, Malaysia and the Philippines. We do not have long-term contracts with any of these contract manufacturers. From time to time, we have experienced and may in the future experience delays in shipments from these contract manufacturers. Although we believe that our contract manufacturers have sufficient economic incentive to perform our manufacturing, the resources devoted to these activities are not within our control, and we cannot assure you that manufacturing problems will not occur in the future. In addition, the operations of our contract manufacturers are not under our control, and may themselves in the future experience manufacturing problems, including inferior quality and insufficient quantities of components. These delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity could result in delays in deliveries of our product to our customers, which could subject us to penalties payable to our customers, increased warranty costs and possible cancellation of orders. If our contract manufacturers experience financial, operational, manufacturing capacity or other difficulties, or shortages in components required for manufacturing, our supply may be disrupted and we may be required to seek alternate manufacturers. We may be unable to secure alternate manufacturers that meet our needs in a timely and cost-effective manner. In addition, some of our contract manufacturers have granted us licenses with respect to certain technology that is used in a number of our products. If we change contract manufacturers, we may be required to renegotiate these licenses or re-design some of our products, either of which could increase our cost of revenues and cause product delivery delays. If we change manufacturers, during the transition period, we may be more likely to face delays, disruptions, quality control problems and loss in capacity, and our sales, profits and customer relationships may suffer. We are increasingly engaged in supplying installation or turnkey projects for our customers. Such long-term projects have inherent additional risks. Problems in executing these turnkey projects, including delays or failure in acceptance testing procedures, would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are increasingly engaged in supplying installation and other services for our customers. In this context, we may act as prime contractor and equipment supplier for network build-out projects, providing installation, supervision and commissioning services required for these projects, or we may provide such services and equipment for projects handled by system integrators. As we engage in more turn-key projects, we expect to continue to routinely enter into contracts involving significant amounts to be paid by our customers over time and which often require us to deliver products and services representing an important portion of the contract price before receiving any significant payment from the customer. In addition, in certain projects we are dependent on the customer to issue acceptance certificates to generate and recognize revenue. In such turn-key projects, we typically bear the risks of loss and damage to our products until the customer has issued an acceptance certificate upon successful completion of acceptance tests. The early deployment of our products during a long-term project reduces our cash flow as we generally collect a significant portion of the contract price after successful completion of an acceptance test. If our products are damaged or stolen, or if the network we install does not pass the acceptance tests or if the customer does not or will not issue an acceptance certificate, the end user or the system integrator, as the case may be, could refuse to pay us any balance owed and we would incur substantial costs, including fees owed to our installation subcontractors, increased insurance premiums, transportation costs, and expenses related to repairing or manufacturing the products. Moreover, in such a case, we may not be able to repossess the equipment, thus suffering additional losses. If any of the above occurs, we may not be able to generate or recognize revenue and we may incur additional costs, any of which could materially adversely impact our results of operation and financial position. 6 We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from fixed-price projects, including our turn-key projects, under which we assume greater financial risk if we fail to accurately estimate the costs of the projects. We are increasingly engaged in supplying turn-key projects, which involve fixed-price contracts. We assume greater financial risks on fixed-price projects, which routinely involve the provision of installation and other services, versus short-term projects, which do not similarly require us to provide services or require customer acceptance certificates in order for us to recognize revenue. If we miscalculate the resources or time we need for these fixed-price projects, the costs of completing these projects may exceed our original estimates, which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may be exposed to the credit risk of customers that have been adversely affected by weakened markets. When we sell our products and related services as part of long-term turn-key projects, a customer’s financial constraints during the life of the project can impact the scope of a project and the customer’s ability to make required payments. In addition, adverse general business conditions may degrade the creditworthiness of our customers over time, and we can be adversely affected by bankruptcies or other business failures. As a result of financing that may be provided to customers and our commercial risk exposure under long-term contracts, our business could be adversely affected if the financial condition of our customers erodes. If customers fail to meet their obligations to us, we may experience reduced cash flows and losses in excess of reserves, which could materially adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. Due to the growing volume of our sales in emerging markets, we face challenges and are susceptible to a number of political and economic risks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, financial condition and results of operations. A majority of our sales are made in countries in Latin America, Africa, Eastern Europe, India and Asia Pacific. For the year ended December 31, 2011, sales in these regions accounted for approximately 67% of our revenues. As a result, the occurrence of any international, political or economic events in these regions could adversely affect our business and result in significant revenue shortfalls. Any such revenue shortfalls could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. For example, in 2011, following the regulatory investigation in the Indian telecommunications market which culminated in the revocation by the Supreme Court of India in 2012 of approximately 120 licenses and spectrum granted after January 10, 2008, sales by vendors, including us, to telecommunications operators in India significantly decreased, which situation has not yet stabilized. The following are some of the risks and challenges that we face doing business internationally, several of which are more likely in the emerging markets than in other countries: • unexpected changes in or enforcement of regulatory requirements, including security regulations relating to international terrorism and hacking concerns and regulations related to licensing and allocation processes; • unexpected changes in or imposition of tax and/or customs levies; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; • imposition of tariffs and other barriers and restrictions; • management and operation of an enterprise spread over various countries; • burden of complying with a variety of foreign laws; • general economic and geopolitical conditions, including inflation and trade relationships; • longer sales cycles; 7 • difficulties in protecting intellectual property; • laws and business practices favoring local competitors; • demand for high-volume purchases with discounted prices; • payment delays and uncertainties; and • civil unrest, war and acts of terrorism. In addition, local business practices in jurisdictions in which we operate, and particularly in emerging markets, may be inconsistent with international regulatory requirements, such as anti-corruption and anti-bribery regulations to which we are subject. It is possible that some of our employees, subcontractors, agents or partners may violate such legal and regulatory requirements, which may expose us to criminal or civil enforcement actions. If we fail to comply with such legal and regulatory requirements, our business and reputation may be harmed. If we fail to effectively manage deliveries of our products and ancillary equipment, we may be unable to timely fulfill our customer commitments, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations and, in the event of an inability to fulfill commitments, would harm our customer relationships. We outsource most of our manufacturing operations and purchase ancillary equipment to our products from contract and other independent manufacturers and other third parties. If we fail to effectively manage and synchronize our deliveries from all these sources to the customer, if we underestimate our production requirements which could interrupt manufacturing or if one or more of the contract and other independent manufacturers or other third parties does not fully comply with their contractual obligations or experience delays, disruptions or component procurement problems, then our ability to deliver complete product orders to our customers or otherwise fulfill our contractual obligations to our customers could be delayed or impaired, could result in higher manufacturing costs, could damage to customer relationships and/or could result in our payment of penalties to our customers, which would adversely affect our business, financial results and customer relationships. Part of our inventory may be written off, which would increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we may be exposed to inventory-related losses on inventories purchased by our contract manufacturers and other suppliers due to inaccurate forecasts. Our contract manufacturers and other suppliers are required to purchase inventory based on manufacturing projections we provide to them. If the actual orders from our customers are lower than these manufacturing projections, our contract manufacturers and/or other suppliers will have excess inventory of raw materials or finished products which we would be required to purchase. We require our contract manufacturers and other suppliers from time to time to purchase more inventory than is immediately required, and, with respect to our contract manufacturers, to partially assemble components, in order to shorten our delivery time in case of an increase in demand for our products. In the absence of such increase in demand, we may need to make advance payments or compensate our contract manufacturers and/or other suppliers, as needed. We also may purchase components or raw materials from time to time for use by our contract manufacturers in the manufacturing of our products. Inventory of raw materials, work in-process or finished products located either at our warehouse or our customers’ sites as part of the network build up may accumulate in the future, and we may encounter losses due to a variety of factors including: • new generations of products replacing older ones, including changes in products because of technological advances and cost reduction measures; and • the need of our contract manufacturers to order raw materials that have long lead times and our inability to estimate exact amounts and types of items thus needed, especially with regard to the frequencies in which the final products ordered will operate. 8 Further, our inventory of finished products located either at our warehouse or our customers’ sites as part of a network build-up may accumulate if a customer were to cancel an order or refuse to physically accept delivery of our products, or in turnkey projects which include acceptance tests, refuse to accept the network. The rate of accumulation may increase in a period of economic downturn. If we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements or forecast customer demand and are required to purchase excess inventory from our contract manufacturers and/or other suppliers or otherwise compensate our contract manufacturers and/or other suppliers for purchasing excess inventory, we may incur additional costs of manufacturing and our gross margins and results of operations could be adversely affected. If we overestimate our requirements and actual sales differ materially from these estimates, our inventory levels may be too high, and inventory may become obsolete and/or over-stated on our balance sheet. This result would require us to write off inventory, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our contract manufacturers obtain some of the components included in our products from a limited group of suppliers and, in some cases, single or sole source suppliers. The loss of any of these suppliers could cause us to experience production and shipment delays and a substantial loss of revenue. Our contract manufacturers currently obtain key components from a limited number of suppliers. Some of these components are obtained from a single or sole source supplier. Our contract manufacturers’ dependence on a single or sole source supplier or on a limited number of suppliers subjects us to the following risks: • The component suppliers may experience shortages in components and interrupt or delay their shipments to our contract manufacturers. Consequently, these shortages could delay the manufacture of our products and shipments to our customers which could result in penalties and/or cancellation of orders for our products. • The component suppliers could discontinue the manufacture or supply of components used in our systems. In such an event, our contract manufacturers or we may be unable to develop alternative sources for the components necessary to manufacture our products, which could force us to redesign our products. Any such redesign of our products would likely interrupt the manufacturing process and could cause delays in our product shipments. Moreover, a significant modification in our product design may increase our manufacturing costs and bring about lower gross margins. • The component suppliers may increase component prices significantly at any time and with immediate effect, particularly if demand for certain components increases dramatically in the global market. These price increases would increase component procurement costs and could significantly reduce our gross margins and profitability. We are exposed to general global economic and market conditions, particularly those impacting the communications industry which may adversely affect our results. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions as well as the markets in which we operate, including the residual effects of the disruption in financial and credit markets in the recent past, pose a risk to the overall economy that may result in our customers postponing spending, which could adversely affect demand for our products and services, as well as our ability to manage commercial relationships with our customers, suppliers and creditors. Partly as a result of the recent recession, entire industries faced, and may in the future face, extreme contraction. These adverse financial conditions may still exist in certain jurisdictions, including specific governments in Europe. If the current economic situation deteriorates or if the markets in which we operate do not recover or stumble, our business could be negatively impacted, including such areas as reduced demand for our products and services, slowed customer buying decisions, pricing pressures, supplier or customer disruptions, or insolvency of certain of our key distributors, resellers, OEMs and systems integrators, which could impair our distribution channels, which could reduce our revenues or our ability to collect our accounts receivable and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Adverse market conditions such as the impact of industry consolidation, emergence of new competitors and changes in the regulatory environment, may also have a negative impact on our business by decreasing new customer engagements and the size of initial spending commitments under those engagements, as well as decreasing the level of discretionary spending by existing customers. In addition, a slowdown in buying decisions may extend our sales cycle period and may limit our ability to forecast our flow of new contracts. If such adverse business conditions arise in the future, our business may be harmed. In the past, these conditions reduced the high growth rates that the market in which we operate had previously experienced, and caused the market value, financial results and prospects and capital spending levels of many telecommunications companies to decline or degrade. During previous economic downturns, the market in which we operate has experienced significant financial pressures that caused many in the market to cut expenses and limit investment in capital intensive projects and, in some cases, led to restructurings and bankruptcies. 9 Our success in handling a possible contraction of our business due to global economic turmoil and market conditions will depend on our ability, among other things, to: • develop efficient forecast methods for evaluating the prospective quantity of products that will be ordered by our customers; • control inventories of components ordered by our contract manufacturers required to meet actual demand, including but not limited to handling the effects of excess inventories accumulated by such manufacturers; • reduce the costs of manufacturing our products; • collect receivables from our customers in full and in a timely manner; and • properly balance the size and capabilities of our workforce. We face intense competition from other high-speed communications solutions that compete with our high-capacity point-to-point wireless products, which could reduce demand for our products and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our products compete with other high-speed communications solutions, including fiber optic lines, leased copper lines and other wireless technologies. Some of these technologies utilize existing installed infrastructure and have achieved significantly greater market acceptance and penetration than high-capacity point-to-point wireless technologies. Some of the disadvantages of high capacity, point-to-point wireless technologies that may make other technologies more appealing include: • Extreme Weather Conditions: wireless backhaul solutions may not operate optimally in certain extreme weather conditions, including severe rainfalls or hurricanes; and • Line-of-Sight Limitations: wireless backhaul solutions generally require a direct line-of-sight between antennas. Consequently, service providers often install these solutions on wireless antenna towers, rooftops of buildings and on other tall structures. As a result, service providers must generally secure roof or other property rights from the owners of each building or other structure on which our products are installed. This may delay deployment and increase the installation costs. Some base stations cannot be linked by line-of-sight solutions. In addition, customers may decide to use transmission frequencies for which we do not offer products. To the extent that these competing communications solutions reduce demand for our high-capacity point-to-point wireless transmission products, which is of greater concern in the United States and in Europe, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 10 Consolidation of our potential customer base could harm our business. The trend toward mergers in the telecommunications industry has resulted in the consolidation of our potential customer base. In situations where an existing customer consolidates with another industry participant which uses a competitor’s products, our sales to that existing customer could be reduced or eliminated completely to the extent that the consolidated entity decides to adopt the competing products. Further, consolidation of our potential customer base could result in purchasing decision delays as consolidating customers integrate their operations and could generally reduce our opportunities to win new customers to the extent that the number of potential customers decreases. Moreover, some of our potential customers have agreed to share backhaul networks which results in a decrease in the overall size of the market. Finally, as our customers become larger they may have more leverage to negotiate better pricing which could harm our revenues and gross margins. We have recently acquired and may additionally acquire other businesses, which could result in integration problems and adversely affect our business. Following our acquisition of Nera in January 2011, we continue to seek opportunities to acquire other businesses. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisitions will be completed. The process of integrating an acquired business may be prolonged due to unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our resources and management’s attention. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully identify suitable acquisition candidates, complete acquisitions, integrate acquired businesses into our operations, or expand into new markets. Future acquisitions may require substantial capital resources, which may require us to seek additional financing, and could result, without limitation, in the following, any of which could seriously harm our results of operations or the price of our ordinary shares: • the issuance of equity securities that would dilute our current shareholders; • the diversion of management’s attention from our core business during the integration process; • the management of a larger combined business, including implementing adequate internal controls; • the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired businesses; • loss of revenue due to overlapping product lines, customers and/or services; • difficulties in the assimilation and integration of operations, personnel, technologies, products and information systems of the acquired companies; • risks of entering geographic and business markets in which we have limited or no prior experience; and • unanticipated losses in the event the acquisition is not consummated. Moreover, the acquired businesses may not achieve comparable levels of revenues, profitability or productivity as our existing business or otherwise perform as expected or may result in write-down or impairment charges. In the event that we consummate the acquisition of other businesses, these challenges and uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional tax liabilities could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a global corporation, we are subject to income and other taxes both in Israel and various foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and international tax liabilities are subject to the allocation of revenues and expenses in different jurisdictions and the timing of recognizing revenues and expenses. Additionally, the amount of income taxes paid or accrued is subject to our interpretation of applicable laws in the jurisdictions in which we do business. From time to time, we are subject to income and other tax audits, the timings of which are unpredictable. While we believe we comply with applicable tax laws, there can be no assurance that a governing tax authority will not have a different interpretation of the law and assess us with additional taxes. Should we be assessed additional taxes, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 11 Our ability to grow depends on acceptance by our customers of IP-based solutions, our ability to develop and introduce IP-based products, our ability to provide solutions to transition from circuit-switched to hybrid products to IP-based products and our ability to develop enhanced support of software solutions. The market for IP-based backhaul equipment for mobile networks is continuing to evolve. Our future success depends in part on the acceptance by customers of IP-based networks, IP-based or hybrid backhaul solutions and IP-based or hybrid products that we currently sell and continue to develop. Moreover, our future success depends on our ability to design and manufacture IP-related products and solutions that satisfy our customers’ needs to transition to IP-based networks and IP-based backhaul. In addition, there is a growing focus on software and networking functionality which requires us to meet our customers’ needs and demands for feature-rich software solutions in our products. If the IP-based backhaul for mobile networks market does not develop at the rate we expect as a result of alternative or changing technologies, changes in product standards and regulation, inability to gain customer acceptance, inability to meet customer demand for greater software enhanced products, or for any other reason, our future growth, business, financial condition, and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. If we do not succeed in developing and marketing new products that keep pace with technological developments, changing industry standards and our customers’ needs, we may not be able to grow our business. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological advances, changing customer needs and evolving industry standards, as well as increasing pressures to make existing products more cost efficient. Accordingly, our success will depend on our ability to: • develop and market new products in a timely manner to keep pace with developments in technology; • meet evolving customer requirements; • enhance our current product offerings, including technological improvements which reduce cost and manufacturing time; and • timely deliver products through appropriate distribution channels. In addition, radio components used in our products, such as ASICs (application specific integrated circuits) and RFICs (radio frequency integrated circuits), continue to advance technologically, and must be replaced or upgraded from time to time in order for us to remain competitive. Our success depends on our ability to continuously redesign our products to integrate new components and technologies. We are currently developing in-house new ASIC and RFIC components for our next generation products. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop these components and bring them into full production with acceptable reliability, or that any development or production ramp-up will be completed in a timely or cost-effective manner. Further, the wireless equipment industry is subject to evolving industry standards. The emergence or evolution of new industry standards for wireless products, through official standards committees or widespread use by operators, could either render our products obsolete or require us to modify our products. Any such modifications may be expensive and time-consuming and, if we are able to meet these standards at all, could increase our product costs and adversely affect our profitability. We are continuously seeking to develop new products and enhance our existing products. Developing new products and product enhancements requires research and development resources and cooperation with subcontractors. We may not be successful in enhancing our existing products or developing new products in response to technological advances or to satisfy increasingly sophisticated customer needs in a timely and cost-effective manner which would have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. 12 We rely on a limited number of contractors as part of our research and development efforts. We conduct a part of our research and development activities through outside contractors. We depend on our contractors’ ability to achieve stated milestones and commercialize our products, and on their ability to cooperate and overcome design difficulties. Our contractors may experience problems, including the inability to recruit professional personnel, which could delay our research and development process. These delays could: • increase our research and development expenses; • delay the introduction of our upgraded and new products to current and prospective customers and our penetration into new markets; and • adversely affect our ability to compete. If our contractors fail to perform, we may be unable to secure alternative contractors that meet our needs. Moreover, qualifying new contractors may also increase our research and development expenses. Our sales cycles in connection with competitive bids or to prospective customers are lengthy. It typically takes from three to twelve months after we first begin discussions with a prospective customer before we receive an order from that customer, if an order is received at all. In some instances, we participate in competitive bids in tenders issued by our customers or prospective customers. These tender processes can continue for many months before a decision is made by the customer. As a result, we are required to devote a substantial amount of time and resources to secure sales. In addition, the lengthy sales cycle results in greater uncertainty with respect to any particular sale, as events may occur during the sales cycle that impact customers’ decisions which, in turn, increases the difficulty of forecasting our results of operations. We sell other manufacturers’ products as an original equipment manufacturer, or OEM, which subjects us to various risks that may cause our revenues to decline. We sell a limited number of products on an OEM basis through relationships with a number of manufacturers. Some of these OEM products enable us to offer a complete solution to some of our customers. These manufacturers have chosen to sell a portion of their systems through us in order to take advantage of our reputation and sales channels. The sale of these OEM products by us depends in part on the quality of these products, the ability of these manufacturers to deliver their products to us on time and their ability to provide both presale and post-sale support. Sales of OEM products by us expose our business to a number of risks, each of which could result in a reduction in the sales of our products. We face the risks of termination of these relationships, technical and financial problems these companies might encounter or the promotion of their products through other channels and turning them into competitors rather than partners. In addition, failure by our OEM manufacturers to deliver their products or discontinue production of their products may cause difficulty to and may have adverse effect on our business. If any of these risks materialize, we may not be able to develop alternative sources for these OEM products, which may cause us to lose certain customers or a part of their business which would cause our revenues to decline. If we fail to develop and maintain distribution and OEM relationships, our revenue may decrease. Although a majority of our sales are made through our direct sales force, we also market and sell our products to customers through OEMs that integrate our solutions into their product offerings as well as distributors and other system integrators. Our sales to our OEMs and distributors are made on the basis of purchase orders rather than long-term purchase commitments. Our relationships with our OEMs are generally governed by non-exclusive agreements that require us to competitively price our products, have no minimum sales commitments and do not prohibit our OEMs from offering products that compete with our solutions. The size of purchases by our OEMs and distributors typically fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year, and may continue to fluctuate in the future, which may affect our quarterly and annual results of operations. 13 We may not be able to maintain and develop additional relationships or, if additional relationships are developed, they may not be successful. If we experience a loss or a substantial reduction in orders from these OEMs or distributor relationships, our revenues may decline, and our business, financial condition, and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. In the event we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to internal controls, or if our internal controls over financial reporting are not effective, our business could suffer. In connection with our certification process under Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley, we have identified in the past and will from time-to-time identify deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement enhancements on a timely basis, especially in light of our new combined global integrated operations with the Nera business, in order to prevent a failure of our internal controls or enable us to furnish future unqualified certifications. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting. In addition, we may identify material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Failure to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting could result in investigation and/or sanctions by regulatory authorities, and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results, investor confidence in our reported financial information, and the market price of our ordinary shares. Any internal control or procedure, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving desired control objectives and cannot prevent intentional misconduct or fraud. Uncertainty and possible delays in deployment of advanced wireless and other networks could cause our revenues to be lower than expected. Our sales depend on the deployment of advanced wireless networks and other networks. Any delay by wireless service providers in their network deployment schedules, including as a result of political or other circumstances beyond their control, could result in lower than expected revenues for us, since these delays would also delay purchasing decisions by the wireless providers. If we fail to obtain regulatory approval for our products, or if sufficient radio frequency spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted. Radio communications are subject to regulation in most jurisdictions and to various international treaties relating to wireless communications equipment and the use of radio frequencies. Generally, our products must conform to a variety of regulatory requirements established to avoid interference among users of transmission frequencies and to permit interconnection of telecommunications equipment. Any delays in compliance with respect to our future products could delay the introduction of those products. Also, these regulatory requirements may change from time to time, which could affect the design and marketing of our products as well as the competition we face from other suppliers’ products. In addition, in most jurisdictions in which we operate, users of our products are generally required to either have a license to operate and provide communications services in the applicable radio frequency or must acquire the right to do so from another license holder. Consequently, our ability to market our products is affected by the allocation of the radio frequency spectrum by governmental authorities, which may be by auction or other regulatory selection. These governmental authorities may not allocate sufficient radio frequency spectrum for use by our products or we may not be successful in obtaining regulatory approval for our products from these authorities. Historically, in many developed countries, the lack of available radio frequency spectrum has inhibited the growth of wireless telecommunications networks. If sufficient radio spectrum is not allocated for use by our products, our ability to market our products may be restricted which would have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, regulatory decisions allocating spectrum for use in wireless backhaul at frequencies used by our competitors’ products could increase the competition we face. 14 Other areas of regulation and governmental restrictions, including tariff on imports and technology controls on exports or regulations related to licensing and allocation processes, could adversely affect our operations and financial results. Our products are used in critical communications networks which may subject us to significant liability claims. Since our products are used in critical communications networks, we may be subject to significant liability claims if our products do not work properly. The provisions in our agreements with customers that are intended to limit our exposure to liability claims may not preclude all potential claims. In addition, any insurance policies we have may not adequately limit our exposure with respect to such claims. We warrant to our current customers that our products will operate in accordance with our product specifications. If our products fail to conform to these specifications, our customers could require us to remedy the failure or could assert claims for damages. Liability claims could require us to spend significant time and money in litigation or to pay significant damages. Any such claims, whether or not successful, would be costly and time-consuming to defend, and could divert management’s attention and seriously damage our reputation and our business. Widespread use of wireless products may have health and safety risks. Our wireless communications products emit electromagnetic radiation. In recent years, there has been publicity regarding the potentially negative direct and indirect health and safety effects of electromagnetic emissions from wireless telephones and other wireless equipment sources, including allegations that these emissions may cause cancer. Health and safety issues related to our products may arise that could lead to litigation or other actions against us or to additional regulation of our products. We may be required to modify our technology and may not be able to do so. We may also be required to pay damages that may reduce our profitability and adversely affect our financial condition. Even if these concerns prove to be baseless, the resulting negative publicity could affect our ability to market these products and, in turn, could harm our business and results of operations. Claims against other wireless equipment suppliers or wireless service providers could adversely affect the demand for our backhaul solutions. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitive position may be harmed. Our ability to compete will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce intellectual property protection for our technology internationally. We currently rely upon a combination of trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, as well as contractual rights, to protect our intellectual property. In 2009, we began to more aggressively pursue patent protection and consequently, our patent portfolio may not be as extensive as those of our competitors. As a result, we may have limited ability to assert any patent rights in negotiations with, or in counterclaiming against, competitors who assert intellectual property rights against us. In connection with the Nera Acquisition, we acquired additional patents and patent applications. We also enter into confidentiality, non-competition and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors engaged in our research and development activities, and enter into non-disclosure agreements with our suppliers and certain customers so as to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. We cannot assure you that any steps taken by us will be adequate to deter misappropriation or impede independent third-party development of similar technologies. Moreover, under current law, we may not be able to enforce the non-competition agreements with our employees to their fullest extent. We cannot assure you that the protection provided to our intellectual property by the laws and courts of foreign nations will be substantially similar to the remedies available under U.S. law. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that third parties will not assert infringement claims against us based on foreign intellectual property rights and laws that are different from those established in the United States. Any such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 15 Defending against intellectual property infringement claims could be expensive and could disrupt our business. The wireless equipment industry is characterized by vigorous protection and pursuit of intellectual property rights, which has resulted in often protracted and expensive litigation. We have been exposed to infringement allegations in the past. We may in the future be notified that we are allegedly infringing certain patent or other intellectual property rights of others. Any such litigation or claim could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. In the event of an adverse result of any such litigation, we could be required to pay substantial damages (including potentially treble damages and attorney’s fees should a court find such infringement willful), cease the use and licensing of allegedly infringing technology and the sale of allegedly infringing products and expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain licenses for the infringing technology. We cannot assure you that we would be successful in developing such non-infringing technology or that any license for the infringing technology would be available to us on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel, our business, operations and product development efforts may be materially adversely affected. Our products require sophisticated research and development, marketing and sales, and technical customer support. Our success depends on our ability to attract, train and retain qualified personnel in all these areas. We compete with other companies for personnel in all of these areas and we may not be able to hire sufficient personnel to achieve our goals or support the anticipated growth in our business. The market for the highly-trained personnel we require is competitive, due to the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products and technology. If we fail to attract and retain qualified personnel due to compensation or other factors, our business, operations and product development efforts would suffer. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuation in currency exchange rates. Although we derive a significant portion of our revenues in U.S. dollars, a portion of our U.S. dollar revenues are derived from customers operating in local currencies which are different from the U.S. dollar. Therefore, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or delay payment. In addition, part of our revenues from customers are in non-U.S. dollar currencies, therefore we are exposed to the risk of devaluation of such currencies relative to the dollar which could have a negative impact on our revenues. Following the Nera Acquisition, while a substantial portion of our expenses are denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or NIS, an additional portion is denominated in Norwegian Kroner, or NOK, and to a lesser extent other non-U.S. dollar currencies. Our NIS and NOK-denominated expenses consist principally of salaries and related costs and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that a portion of our expenses will continue to be denominated in NIS and NOK. In 2011, the NIS and NOK continued to fluctuate in comparison to the U.S. dollar, appreciating by approximately 4% and 8% in the first half of the year, respectively, and then devaluating by approximately 12% and 12% in the second half of the year, respectively. In total, during 2011, the NIS and NOK devaluated by 8% and 3% in comparison to the U.S. dollar, respectively. If the U.S. dollar continues to weaken against the NIS and the NOK in the future, there will be a negative impact on our results of operations. In some cases, we are paid in non-U.S. dollar currencies or maintain monetary assets in non- U.S. dollar currencies, which could affect our reported results of operations. In addition, we have assets and liabilities that are denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. Therefore, significant fluctuation in these other currencies could have significant effect on our results. We use derivative financial instruments, such as foreign exchange forward contracts, to mitigate the risk of changes in foreign exchange rates on balance sheet accounts and forecast cash flows. We may not purchase derivative instruments adequate to insulate ourselves from foreign currency exchange risks and over the past year, we have incurred losses as a result of exchange rate fluctuations that have not been offset in full by our hedging strategy. The volatility in the foreign currency markets may make it challenging to hedge our foreign currency exposures effectively. 16 If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including higher tax rates and potentially punitive interest charges on certain distributions and on the proceeds of share sales. We do not believe that for the year ended December 31, 2011 we were a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Non-U.S. corporations may generally be characterized as a PFIC if for any taxable year in which 75% or more of such company’s gross income is passive income, or at least 50% of the average value of all such company’s assets are held for the production of, or produce, passive income. If we are characterized as a PFIC, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences, including having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than capital gain income, and having potentially punitive interest charges apply to the proceeds of share sales. Similar rules apply to distributions that are “excess distributions.” It is possible that the United States Internal Revenue Service could attempt to treat us as a PFIC for the taxable year ended December 31, 2011 or prior years. The tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of our future income, assets, activities and market capitalization, including fluctuations in the price of our ordinary shares, which are relevant to this determination. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will not become a PFIC in 2012 or in subsequent years. For a discussion of the rules relating to passive foreign investment companies and related tax consequences, please see the section of this annual report entitled “U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations.” Our operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Our quarterly results are difficult to predict and may vary significantly from quarter to quarter. Most importantly, delays in completing product order delivery or completion of a sale or related services can cause our revenues, net income and operating cash flow to fluctuate significantly from anticipated levels. Furthermore, we may reduce prices in specific instances in response to competition or increase spending in order to pursue new market opportunities. Additionally, the following factors may also cause fluctuations in our quarterly results: • accurately forecasting the volume and timing of product orders received and delivered during the quarter; • the timing of when our customers provide acceptance certificates in turnkey projects; • the ability to effectively manage and synchronize delivery of completed product order to customer; • the ability of our contract manufacturers to manufacture products on time; • our customers’ financial and cash flow constraints; • the efficient deployment of our customers’ networks in turn-key projects; • the fulfillment of all revenue recognition criteria; • worldwide regulatory developments; • maintaining key customer relationships; • changes in the mix of products sold by us; • timing of new product introductions by us or our competitors; • disruption in our continued relationships with our OEM partners and distributors; 17 • cost and availability of components and subsystems; • adoption of new technologies and industry standards; • competitive factors, including pricing, availability and demand for competing products; • ability of our customers to obtain financing to enable their purchase of our products; • fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; and • global economic conditions. The quarterly variation of our operating results, may, in turn, create volatility in the market price for our shares. The price of our ordinary shares is subject to volatility. The price of our ordinary shares has experienced volatility in the past and may continue to do so in the future. In the two year period ended December 31, 2011, the price of our ordinary shares has ranged from a high of $14.34 to a low of $6.88. On December 30, 2011, and March 15, 2012, the closing price of our ordinary shares was $7.70 and $9.41, respectively. Other factors that may contribute to wide fluctuations in our market price, many of which are beyond our control, include, but are not limited to: • announcement of corporate transactions; • announcements of technological innovations; • customer orders or new products or contracts; • competitors’ positions in the market; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • our earnings releases and the earnings releases of our competitors; • the general state of the securities markets (with particular emphasis on the technology and Israeli sectors thereof); and • the general state of the credit markets, the current volatility of which could have an adverse effect on our investments. In addition to the volatility of the market price of our shares, the stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular have been highly volatile and at times thinly traded. Investors may not be able to resell their shares following periods of volatility. Due to the size of their shareholdings, Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel have influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. As of March 15, 2012, Yehuda Zisapel beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 6.2% of our outstanding ordinary shares; and Zohar Zisapel, our Chairman, beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, 14% of our outstanding ordinary shares. Such percentages include options which are exercisable within 60 days of March 15, 2012. Yehuda and Zohar Zisapel, who are brothers, do not have a voting agreement. Regardless, these shareholders may influence the outcome of various actions that require shareholder approval. 18 Provisions of our Articles of Association, Memorandum of Association and Israeli law could delay, prevent or make difficult a change of control and therefore depress the price of our shares. Under the Israeli Companies Law, or the Companies Law, companies such as ours which were incorporated prior to the effectiveness of the Companies Law, are required to obtain a shareholder approval of a merger by at least 75% of the shares participating at the meeting and voting thereon. Moreover, the modification of our Memorandum of Association requires a 75% majority vote, and such a requirement may subject certain types of merger transactions or other business combinations to the same super-majority approval requirements. Additionally, under certain circumstances, a request of a creditor of a party to the proposed merger to the court may delay or prevent a merger. Further, a merger generally may not be completed until the passage of certain time periods. In certain circumstances, an acquisition of shares in a public company must be made by means of a tender offer. Our Articles of Association provide that our directors (other than the external directors) are divided into two classes: Class I and Class II. A director will generally serve for a term ending on the date of the third annual general meeting following the annual general meeting at which such director was elected. This election mechanism may discourage a takeover of our company. Furthermore, certain provisions of other Israeli laws may have the effect of delaying, preventing or making more difficult an acquisition of or merger with us. For example, Israeli tax law treats some acquisitions, such as share-for-share exchanges between an Israeli company and a foreign company, less favorably than U.S. tax laws. In addition, approvals of a merger that may be in certain circumstances required under the Restrictive Trade Practices Law and , 1988, and under of the Israeli Law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development of 1984 may impede, delay or restrict our ability to consummate a merger or similar transaction. See Item, “Additional Information—Mergers and Acquisitions under Israeli Law” in this annual report, for additional discussion about some antitakeover provisions. Risks Relating to Israel Conditions related to the Israel-Arab conflict may disrupt our ability to design, produce and sell our products. This could result in a decrease of our revenues. Our principal offices and a substantial portion of our research and development and contract manufacturers’ facilities are located in Israel. Accordingly, we are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Israel has been subject to a number of armed conflicts that have taken place between it and its Arab neighbors. While Israel has entered into peace agreements with both Egypt and Jordan, Israel has not entered into peace arrangements with any other neighboring countries, the numerous uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East, including in Egypt, Syria and Jordan which border Israel, have introduced additional uncertainty in the region. Recent events in Iran, including reports of its continuing nuclear development program, have further strained relations between Israel and Iran. Over the past several years there has been a significant deterioration in Israel’s relationship with the Palestinian Authority and a related increase in violence, including recent hostilities related to Lebanon and the Gaza Strip. Efforts to resolve the problem have failed to result in a permanent solution. Further deterioration of relations with the Palestinian Authority or other countries in the Middle East might require more military reserve service by some of our Israeli workforce, could disrupt international trading activities in Israel and may materially and negatively affect our business conditions and those of our major contract manufacturers and could harm our results of operations. Certain countries, as well as certain companies and organizations, primarily in the Middle East, as well as Malaysia and Indonesia, continue to participate in a boycott of Israeli firms and others doing business with Israel and Israeli companies. Thus, there have been sales opportunities that we could not pursue and there may be such opportunities in the future from which we will be precluded. For example, certain countries participating in the boycott described above have recently been increasing their investment in telecom operators in Africa. This growing control of the market in Africa could lead to a decrease of our sales in Africa in the future. The boycott, restrictive laws, policies or practices directed towards Israel or Israeli businesses could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse affect on our business in the future. 19 We can give no assurance that the political and security situation in Israel, as well as the economic situation, will not have a material impact on our business in the future. Since we received Israeli government grants for research and development expenditures, we are subject to ongoing restrictions and conditions, including restrictions on our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel. We received grants from the Government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor, or the OCS, for the financing of a significant portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel through the end of 2006. We therefore must comply with the requirements of the Israeli law for the Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development of 1984 and regulations promulgated thereunder which we refer to as the R&D Law with respect to a portion of our products. Under the R&D Law, we cannot transfer technology developed with OCS grants, including by the sale of the technology, the grant of a license of such technology or the manufacture of a significant amount of our products that are based on such technology outside of Israel, unless we obtain the approval of an OCS committee. There is no assurance that we will receive such OCS approvals. Even if such OCS approvals are obtained, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the OCS or, in case of a transfer of the technology outside of Israel, a percentage of the consideration paid for such transfer, but not less than the OCS grants. In addition, under the R&D Law, any non-Israeli who becomes a direct holder of 5% or more of our share capital is required to notify the OCS and to undertake to observe the law governing the grant programs of the OCS, the principal restrictions of which are the transferability limits described above in this paragraph. The tax benefits to which we are currently entitled from our approved enterprise program and our beneficiary enterprise program require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay increased taxes and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The Company has capital investment programs that have been granted approved enterprise status ("Approved Programs") and a program under beneficiary enterprise status pursuant to the Law for the Encouragement of Capital Investments, 1959 ("Beneficiary Program"). When we begin to generate taxable income from these approved and/or beneficiary enterprise programs, the portion of our income derived from these programs will be exempt from tax for a period of two years and will be subject to a reduced tax for an additional eight years thereafter, depending on the percentage of our share capital held by non-Israelis. The benefits available to an approved enterprise program are dependent upon the fulfillment of conditions stipulated under applicable law and in the certificate of approval. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and would likely be denied these benefits in the future. The amount by which our taxes would increase will depend on the difference between the then applicable tax rate for regular enterprises and the rate of tax, if any, that we would otherwise pay as an approved enterprise and/or beneficiary enterprise, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. The tax benefits available to approved and beneficiary enterprise programs may be reduced or eliminated in the future. This would likely increase our tax liability. The Israeli government may reduce or eliminate in the future tax benefits available to approved and/or beneficiary enterprise programs. Our approved and beneficiary program and the resulting tax benefits may not continue in the future at their current levels or at any level and the new legislation regarding Preferred Enterprise may not be applicable to us or may not fully compensate us for such change. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits would likely increase our tax liability. The amount, if any, by which our tax liability would increase will depend upon the rate of any tax increase, the amount of any tax benefit reduction, and the amount of any taxable income that we may earn in the future. 20 It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, and our officers and directors named in this annual report, to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel and to serve process on substantially all of our officers and directors. We are incorporated under the laws of the State of Israel. Service of process upon our directors and officers, substantially all of whom reside outside the United States, may be difficult to obtain within the United States. Furthermore, because the majority of our assets and investments, and substantially all of our directors and officers are located outside the United States, any judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of them may not be collectible within the United States. It may be difficult to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact, which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing these matters. Subject to specified time limitations and legal procedures, Israeli courts may enforce a U.S. final judgment in a civil matter, including a judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. securities laws, and including a judgment for the payment of compensation or damages in a non-civil matter, provided that: • the judgment was given by a court which was, according to the laws of the state of the court, competent to give it; • the judgment is executory in the state in which it was given; • the judgment is no longer appealable; • the judgment was not given by a court that is not competent to do so under the rules of private international law applicable in Israel; • there has been due process; • the obligation imposed by the judgment is enforceable according to the rules relating to the enforceability of judgments in Israel and the substance of the judgment is not contrary to public policy; • the judgment was not obtained by fraud and does not conflict with any other valid judgment in the same matter between the same parties; and • an action between the same parties in the same matter is not pending in any Israeli court or tribunal at the time the lawsuit is instituted in the U.S. court. Even if these conditions are satisfied, an Israeli court will not enforce a foreign judgment if it was given in a state whose laws do not provide for the enforcement of judgments of Israeli courts (subject to exceptional cases) or if its enforcement is likely to prejudice the sovereignty or security of the State of Israel. 