Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Operations Substantial or extended declines in the prices of crude oil and oil products may have a material adverse effect on our income. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of crude oil and oil products. We do not, and will not, have control over the factors affecting international prices for crude oil and oil products. The average prices of Brent crude, an international benchmark oil, were approximately U.S.$ 65.14 per barrel for 2006, U.S.$54.38 per barrel for 2005 and U.S.$38.21 per barrel for 2004. Changes in crude oil prices typically result in changes in prices for oil products. 13 Table of Contents Historically, international prices for crude oil and oil products have fluctuated widely as a result of many factors. These factors include: • global and regional economic and geopolitical developments in crude oil producing regions, particularly in the Middle East; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) to set and maintain crude oil production levels and defend prices; • global and regional supply and demand for crude oil and oil products; • competition from other energy sources; • domestic and foreign government regulations; and • weather conditions. Volatility and uncertainty in international prices for crude oil and oil products may continue. Substantial or extended declines in international crude oil prices may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition, and the value of our proved reserves. In addition, significant decreases in the price of crude oil may cause us to reduce or alter the timing of our capital expenditures, and this could adversely affect our production forecasts in the medium term and our reserve estimates in the future. Our ability to achieve our long-term growth objectives depends on our ability to discover additional reserves and successfully develop them, and failure to do so could prevent us from achieving our long-term goals for growth in production. Our ability to achieve our long-term growth objectives is highly dependent upon our ability to discover additional reserves, as well as to successfully develop our current reserves. In addition, our exploration activities expose us to the inherent risks of drilling, including the risk that we will not discover commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reserves. The costs of drilling wells are often uncertain, and numerous factors beyond our control (such as unexpected drilling conditions, equipment failures or accidents, and shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment) may cause drilling operations to be curtailed, delayed or cancelled. These risks are heightened when we drill in deep water (between 300 and 1,500 meters’ water depth) and ultra deep water (more than 1,500 meters). Deep water drilling represented approximately 34 % of the exploratory wells we drilled in 2006, a higher proportion than for many other oil and gas producers. Unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities or acquire properties containing proved reserves, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are extracted. If we fail to gain access to additional reserves we may not achieve our long-term goals for production growth and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our crude oil and natural gas reserve estimates involve some degree of uncertainty, which could adversely affect our ability to generate income. The proved crude oil and natural gas reserves set forth in this annual report are our estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids that geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to be recoverable from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions (i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made). Our proved developed crude oil and natural gas reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods. There are uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves related to prevailing crude oil and natural gas prices applicable to our production, which may lead us to make revisions to our reserve estimates. Downward revisions in our reserve estimates could lead to lower future production, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Table of Contents We are subject to numerous environmental and health regulations that have become more stringent in the recent past and may result in increased liabilities and increased capital expenditures. Our activities are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local laws, regulations and permit requirements relating to the protection of human health and the environment, both in Brazil and in other jurisdictions in which we operate. In Brazil, we could be exposed to administrative and criminal sanctions, including warnings, fines and closure orders for non-compliance with these environmental regulations, which, among other things, limit or prohibit emissions or spills of toxic substances produced in connection with our operations. In 2006, we experienced spills totaling 77,402 gallons of crude oil, as compared to 71,141 gallons in 2005 and 140,000 gallons in 2004. As a result of certain of these spills, we were fined by various state and federal environmental agencies, named the defendant in several civil and criminal suits, and remain subject to several investigations and potential civil and criminal liabilities. See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Waste disposal and emissions regulations may require us to clean up or retrofit our facilities at substantial cost and could result in substantial liabilities. The Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos Naturais Renováveis (Brazilian Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural Resources, or IBAMA) routinely inspects our oil platforms in the Campos Basin, and may impose fines, restrictions on operations or other sanctions in connection with its inspections. In addition, we are subject to environmental laws that require us to incur significant costs to cover damage that a project may cause to the environment (environmental compensation). These additional costs may have a negative impact on the profitability of the projects we intend to implement or may make such projects economically unfeasible. As environmental regulations become more stringent, it is probable that our capital expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations and to effect improvements in our health, safety and environmental practices will increase substantially in the future. Because our capital expenditures are subject to approval by the Brazilian government, increased expenditures to comply with environmental regulations could result in reductions in other strategic investments. Any such reduction may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We may incur losses and spend time and money defending pending litigations and arbitrations. We are currently a party to numerous legal proceedings relating to civil, administrative, environmental, labor and tax claims filed against us. These claims involve substantial amounts of money and other remedies. Several individual disputes account for a significant part of the total amount of claims against us. For example, on the grounds that drilling and production platforms may not be classified as sea-going vessels, the Brazilian Revenue Service asserted that overseas remittances for charter payments should be reclassified as lease payment and subject to a withholding tax of 25%. The Revenue Service has filed two tax assessments against us that in the aggregate, on December 31, 2006, amounted to R$3,914 million (approximately U.S.$1,832 million). See Item 8. “Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” We may also be subject to labor litigation in connection with recent changes in Brazilian laws relating to retirement benefits affecting our employees. In the event that claims involving a material amount and for which we have no provisions were to be decided against us, or in the event that the losses estimated turn out to be significantly higher than the provisions made, the aggregate cost of unfavorable decisions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our management may be required to direct its time and attention to defending these claims, which could preclude them from focusing on our core business. Depending on the outcome, certain litigation could result in restrictions on our operations and have a material adverse effect on certain of our businesses. If the State of Rio de Janeiro enforces a law imposing the Domestic Value-Added Tax (ICMS) on upstream oil activities, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. In June 2003, the State of Rio de Janeiro enacted a law, referred to as the “Noel Law,” imposing ICMS on upstream activities. The constitutionality of the Noel Law is currently being challenged in the Brazilian Supreme Court (Supremo Tribunal Federal, or STF) and although the law was approved by the State Legislature, the 15 Table of Contents government of the State of Rio de Janeiro has not yet enforced it. Currently, the ICMS for fuels derived from oil is assessed at the point of sale but not at the wellhead level. If the State of Rio de Janeiro enforces the Noel Law, it is unlikely (depending on the grounds of the Supreme Court’s decision) that the other states would allow us to use the tax imposed at the wellhead level in Rio de Janeiro as a credit to offset the tax imposed at the sale level. Therefore, we would have to pay ICMS at both levels. We estimate that the amount of ICMS that we would be required to pay to the State of Rio de Janeiro could increase by approximately R$9.4 billion (U.S.$4.3 billion) per year. This increase could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our participation in the domestic power market has generated losses and may not become profitable. Consistent with the global trend of other major oil and gas companies and to secure demand for our natural gas, we participate in the domestic power market. Despite a number of incentives introduced by the Brazilian government to promote the development of gas-fired power plants, development of such plants has been slow due to the market structure and regulation of the power industry, among other things. We have invested, alone or with other investors, in fifteen (thirteen in operation and two under construction or development) of the 21 existing gas-fired power generation plants. Demand for energy produced by our gas-fired power plants has been lower than we expected, as a consequence of the reduction in electricity demand due to a rationing that took place in Brazil in 2001 and 2002. The resulting excess of electricity generation capacity in Brazil has lowered the prices of energy and the majority of our thermoelectricity generation capacity is not contracted in the short term. Although almost all of our long-term capacity has been sold through the energy auctions promoted by the Brazilian government, we still face certain risks associated with our gas-fired power business. The main risks are: • The potential mismatch between the contracted price indexation for energy to be sold by gas-fired power companies and the cost of natural gas or other substitute fuel supply; and • The dependence on the construction of pipelines and other infrastructure to transport and produce natural gas, and the commitment to purchase firm quantities of natural gas to satisfy the requirement of the new regulatory model for power generation in order to sell under long term energy contracts. As a result of the foregoing, our participation in the domestic power market has generated losses and may not become profitable. We may not be able to obtain financing for some of our planned investments, and failure to do so could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. The Brazilian government maintains control over our budget and establishes limits on our investments and long-term debt. As a state-controlled entity, we must submit our proposed annual budgets to the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management, the Ministry of Mines and Energy, and the Brazilian Congress for approval. If we cannot obtain financing that does not require Brazilian government approval, we may not be free to make all the investments we envision, including those we have agreed to make to expand and develop our crude oil and natural gas fields. If we are unable to make these investments, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Currency fluctuations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations, because most of our revenues are in reais and a large portion of our liabilities are in foreign currencies. The impacts of fluctuations in exchange rates, especially the real/U.S. dollar rate, on our operations are varied and may be material. The principal market for our products is Brazil, as over the last three fiscal years over 75% of our revenues have been denominated in reais, while some of our operating expenses and capital expenditures and a substantial portion of our indebtedness are, and are expected to continue to be, denominated in or indexed to U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies. In addition, during 2006 we imported U.S.$10.7 billion of crude oil and oil products, the prices of which were all denominated and paid in U.S. dollars. Conversely, a substantial share of our liquid assets are held in U.S. dollar denominated assets, or indexed to the U.S. dollar, but we do not use forwards, swaps and futures contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency values on our operations and financial statements because of their limited liquidity and cost. 16 Table of Contents Our recent financial statements reflect the appreciation of the real by 18.2%, 8.1%, 11.8% and 8.7% against the U.S. dollar in 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively, as a result of improvement in macro-economic conditions and reduction in the markets perception of political risk in Brazil and global emerging market risk. As of June 21, 2007, the exchange rate of the real to the U.S. dollar was R$1.920 per U.S.$1.00, representing an appreciation of approximately 10.2% in 2007 year-to-date. Any reversal of this trend could affect negatively the results of our operations. We are exposed to increases in prevailing market interest rates, which leaves us vulnerable to increased financing expenses. In spite of marked improvements in our credit ratings, which have facilitated our access to fixed-interest long-term capital, a substantial portion of our total debt is represented by structured finance, export credits, trade financing and other similar financing methods the funding of which depends on floating rate instruments, and which for contractual, cost or other considerations cannot be prepaid. As of December 31, 2006, approximately 59%— U.S.$12,589 million of our total indebtedness—consisted of floating rate debt. In light of cost considerations and market analysis, we decided not to enter into derivative contracts or make other arrangements to hedge against the risk of an increase in interest rates. Accordingly, if market interest rates (principally LIBOR) rise, our financing expenses will increase, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We are not insured against business interruption for our Brazilian operations and most of our assets are not insured against war or sabotage. We do not maintain coverage for business interruptions of any nature for our Brazilian operations, including business interruptions caused by labor action. If, for instance, our workers were to strike, the resulting work stoppages could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we do not insure most of our assets against war or sabotage. Therefore, an attack or an operational incident causing an interruption of our business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to substantial risks relating to our international operations, in particular in Latin America and the Middle East. We operate in a number of different countries, particularly in Latin America, West Africa and the Middle East that can be politically, economically and socially unstable. The results of operations and financial condition of our subsidiaries in these countries may be adversely affected by fluctuations in their local economies, political instability and governmental actions relating to the economy, including: • the imposition of exchange or price controls; • the imposition of restrictions on hydrocarbon exports; • the depreciation of local currencies; • the nationalization of oil and gas reserves; • increases in export tax / income tax rates for crude oil and oil products; or • unilateral (governmental) institutional and contractual changes. If one or more of the risks described above were to materialize we may not achieve our strategic objectives in these countries or in our international operations as a whole, which may result in a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Of the countries outside of Brazil in which we operate, Argentina is the most significant, representing approximately 44% of our total international crude oil and natural gas production and 35% of our international proved crude oil and natural gas reserves at December 31, 2006. In response to the Argentine peso crisis that began in 2001, the Argentine government has made a number of changes in the regulatory structure of the electricity and 17 Table of Contents gas sectors and has established export tax rates for crude oil, natural gas and oil products. We also have significant operations in Bolivia and Venezuela that represented, respectively, approximately 23% and 11% of our total international production in barrels of oil equivalent and 24% and 9% of our international proved crude oil and natural gas reserves, respectively, at December 31, 2006. Deterioration of the situation in Argentina, Bolivia or Venezuela may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The nationalization measures taken by the Bolivian and Venezuelan governments may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Bolivian and Venezuelan governments have recently increased their participation in their respective domestic oil and gas industries, which may generate material losses to us. We have been operating in Bolivia since 1996. Our consolidated interests related to Bolivia include two refineries, oil and gas reserves, which represented approximately 1.9% of our total reserves at December 31, 2006 and our interest in the Bolivia-Brazil gas pipeline (GTB). We also hold a long-term gas supply agreement, or the GSA, for the purchase of natural gas from the Bolivian state oil company, Yacimientos Petrolíferos Fiscales Bolivianos — YPFB. As of December 31, 2006, the book value of Bolivia assets was U.S.$1,173 million. In 2006, the natural gas we imported from Bolivia represented approximately 56% of our total natural gas sales. We supply this natural gas to the Brazilian market, including local distribution companies and gas-fired power plants in which we have an interest. On May 1, 2006, the Bolivian government announced that it would nationalize several industries in the country, including the oil and gas industry. As a result, companies engaged in oil and gas production activities in Bolivia were required to deliver to YPFB all their oil and gas production. The nationalization measures also included a significant increase in the government take (including royalties and direct taxes) for companies engaged in oil and gas production in Bolivia from 18% of total production in 2005 to approximately 82% in 2006, subject to production levels and the price of natural gas, among other variables to take into account. We reviewed our production estimates for Bolivia and reduced our proved reserves in this country from 2.7% of our total reserves in December 31, 2005 to 1.9% of our total reserves in December 31, 2006. After negotiations with the Bolivian government, in May 2007, we reached a sales agreement with YPFB, in which they have agreed to pay, in two installments, U.S.$112 millions for all the outstanding shares of Petrobras Bolivia Refinación S.A., which owns the two refineries in Bolivia. On June 11, 2007 we confirmed the first payment of U.S.$56 million from YPFB. The Bolivian government attempted to increase the gas prices under the agreement but currently has agreed to maintain the prices at the levels originally provided in the agreement, with the exception of prices for gas with a calorific power higher than 8,900 kcal/m3, for which a new price premium formula based on international market prices has yet to be negotiated. Our interests in Venezuela include oil and gas reserves, which represented approximately 0.7% of our total reserves at December 31, 2006. In April 2005, the Venezuelan Energy and Oil Ministry instructed Petróleos de Venezuela S.A. (PDVSA), the Venezuelan government-controlled company created to operate oil and gas reserves with private companies, to review thirty-two operating agreements signed by PDVSA with oil companies from 1992 through 1997. In addition, PDVSA was instructed to take measures in order to convert all effective operating agreements into state-controlled companies in order to grant the Venezuelan government, through PDVSA, more than 50% ownership of each field, including agreements with our affiliates in connection with the areas of Oritupano Leona, La Concepcion, Acema and Mata. As a result, as of December 31, 2005, we recorded an impairment charge in order to adjust the book value of our Venezuelan assets in the amount of U.S.$134 million. In March 31, 2006, we, PDVSA and Corporación Venezolana del Petróleo S.A. (CVP), entered into memoranda of understanding (MOUs) in order to effect the migration of the operating agreements to partially state-owned companies (“mixed companies”), whereby the interest of PDVSA in each mixed company would be 60% and the interest of private companies like us would be limited to 40%. In August 2006, the final migrating contracts were executed for Oritupano Leona, Mata, Acema and La Concepción, with effective date of April 1, 2006. All these measures generate significant uncertainty as to the status and prospects of our investment and operations in Bolivia and Venezuela. We cannot estimate the degree to which these nationalization measures will affect us, and believe they may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. See Item 4. “Information on the Company¾International¾ Bolivian Activities” and Item 4. “Information on the Company¾International¾ Venezuelan Activities.” 18 Table of Contents Risks Relating to PifCo PifCo’s operations and debt servicing capabilities are dependent on us. PifCo’s financial position and results of operations are directly affected by our decisions. PifCo is a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Petrobras incorporated in the Cayman Islands as an exempted company with limited liability. PifCo has limited operations consisting principally of the purchase of crude oil and oil products from third parties and the resale of those products to us or to third parties. PifCo also buys crude oil and oil products from us, for sale to third parties and affiliates on a limited basis. PifCo’s ability to service and repay its indebtedness is consequently dependent on our own operations. Financing for PifCo’s operations is provided by us as well as third-party credit providers in favor of whom we provide credit support. This support to PifCo’s debt obligations is made through standby purchase agreements whereby we agree to repurchase from the holders of PifCo’s notes their right to receive payment from PifCo in case PifCo defaults payment. Our own financial condition or results of operations, or our financial support of PifCo directly affect PifCo’s operational results and debt servicing capabilities. For a more detailed description of certain risks that may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition or results of operations and therefore affect PifCo’s ability to meet its debt obligations see “Risks Relating to Our Operations.” PifCo depends on its ability to pass on its financing costs to us. PifCo is principally engaged in the purchase of crude oil and oil products for sale to us, as described above. PifCo regularly incurs indebtedness related to such purchases and/or in obtaining financing from us or third-party creditors. All such indebtedness has the benefit of our standby purchase obligation or other support, and PifCo has historically has passed on its financing costs to us by selling crude oil and oil products to us at a premium to compensate for its financing costs. If for any reason we are not permitted to continue these practices, this would have a materially adverse effect on PifCo’s business and on its ability to meet its debt obligations in the long term. Risks Relating to the Relationship between us and the Brazilian Government The Brazilian government, as our controlling shareholder, may cause us to pursue certain macroeconomic and social objectives that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Brazilian government, as our controlling shareholder, has pursued, and may pursue in the future, certain of its macroeconomic and social objectives through us. Brazilian law requires the Brazilian government to own a majority of our voting stock, and so long as it does, the Brazilian government will have the power to elect a majority of the members of our board of directors and, through them, a majority of the executive officers who are responsible for our day-to-day management. As a result, we may engage in activities that give preference to the objectives of the Brazilian government rather than to our own economic and business objectives. In particular, we continue to assist the Brazilian government to ensure that the supply of crude oil and oil products in Brazil meets Brazilian consumption requirements. Accordingly, we may make investments, incur costs and engage in sales on terms that may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. If the Brazilian government reinstates controls over the prices we can charge for crude oil and oil products, such price controls could affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the past, the Brazilian government set prices for crude oil and oil products in Brazil, occasionally below prices prevailing in the world oil markets. These prices involved elements of cross-subsidy among different oil products sold in various regions in Brazil. The cumulative impact of this price regulation system on us is recorded as an asset on our balance sheet under the line item “Petroleum and Alcohol Account—Receivable from the Brazilian government.” The balance of the account at December 31, 2006 was U.S.$ 368 million. All price controls for crude oil and oil products ended on January 2, 2002, however, the Brazilian government could decide to reinstate price controls in the future as a result of market instability or other conditions. If this were to occur, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. 19 Table of Contents We do not own any of the crude oil and natural gas reserves in Brazil. A guaranteed source of crude oil and natural gas reserves is essential to an oil and gas company’s sustained production and generation of income. Under Brazilian law, the Brazilian government owns all crude oil and natural gas reserves in Brazil and the concessionaire owns the oil and gas it produces. We possess the exclusive right to develop our reserves pursuant to concession agreements awarded to us by the Brazilian government and we own the goods we produce under the concession agreements, but if the Brazilian government were to restrict or prevent us from exploiting these crude oil and natural gas reserves, our ability to generate income would be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Brazil The Brazilian government has historically exercised, and continues to exercise, significant influence over the Brazilian economy. Brazilian political and economic conditions have a direct impact on our business and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The Brazilian government’s economic policies may have important effects on Brazilian companies, including us, and on market conditions and prices of Brazilian securities. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the following factors and the Brazilian government’s response to these factors: • devaluations and other exchange rate movements; • inflation; • exchange control policies; • social instability; • price instability; • energy shortages; • interest rates; • liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; • tax policy; and • other political, diplomatic, social and economic developments in or affecting Brazil. Uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government will implement changes in policy or regulations that may affect these or other factors in the future may lead to economic uncertainty in Brazil and increase the volatility of the Brazilian securities market and securities issued abroad by Brazilian companies. Inflation and government measures to curb inflation may contribute significantly to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets and, consequently, may adversely affect the market value of our securities and financial condition. Our principal market is Brazil, which has, in the past, periodically experienced extremely high rates of inflation. Inflation, along with governmental measures to combat inflation and public speculation about possible future measures, has had significant negative effects on the Brazilian economy. The annual rates of inflation, as measured by the National Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or IPCA), have decreased from 2,477.15% in 1993 to 916.46% in 1994 and to 5.97% in 2000. The same index increased to 9.30% in 2003, before decreasing to 3.14% in 2006. Considering the historically high rates of inflation, Brazil may experience higher levels of inflation in the future. The lower levels of inflation experienced since 1995 may not continue. Future governmental actions, including actions to adjust the value of the real, could trigger increases in inflation, which may adversely affect our financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Access to international capital markets for Brazilian companies is influenced by the perception of risk in Brazil and other emerging economies, which may hurt our ability to finance our operations and the trading values of our securities. International investors generally consider Brazil to be an emerging market. As a result, economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially those in Latin America, influence the market for securities issued by Brazilian companies. As a result of economic problems in various emerging market countries in recent years (such as the Asian financial crisis of 1997, the Russian financial crisis in 1998 and the Argentine financial crisis that began in 2001), investors have viewed investments in emerging markets with heightened caution. These crises produced a significant outflow of U.S. dollars from Brazil, causing Brazilian companies to face higher costs for raising funds, both domestically and abroad, and impeding access to international capital markets. Increased volatility in securities markets in Latin American and in other emerging market countries may have a negative impact on the trading value of our securities. We cannot assure you that international capital markets will remain open to Brazilian companies or that prevailing interest rates in these markets will be advantageous to us. Risks Relating to our Equity and Debt Securities The size, volatility, liquidity and/or regulation of the Brazilian securities markets may curb your ability to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs. Petrobras shares are the most liquid in the São Paulo Stock Exchange (BOVESPA), but overall, the Brazilian securities markets are smaller, more volatile and less liquid than the major securities markets in the United States (and perhaps other jurisdictions), and may be regulated differently from the way in which U.S. investors are accustomed. Factors that may specifically affect the Brazilian equity markets may limit your ability to sell the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs at the price and time you desire. The market for PifCo’s notes may not be liquid. Some of PifCo’s notes are not listed on any securities exchange and are not quoted through an automated quotation system. We can make no assurance as to the liquidity of or trading markets for PifCo’s notes. We cannot guarantee that the holders of PifCo’s notes will be able to sell their notes in the future. If a market for PifCo’s notes does not develop, holders of PifCo’s notes may not be able to resell the notes for an extended period of time, if at all. You may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs who are residents of the United States may not be able to exercise the preemptive rights relating to the common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933 is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the common or preferred shares relating to these preemptive rights, and therefore we may not file any such registration statement. If a registration statement is not filed and an exemption from registration does not exist, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as depositary, will attempt to sell the preemptive rights, and you will be entitled to receive the proceeds of the sale. However, the preemptive rights will expire if the depositary cannot sell them. For a more complete description of preemptive rights with respect to the common or preferred shares, see Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Association of Petrobras—Preemptive Rights.” You may not be able to sell your ADSs at the time or the price you desire because an active or liquid market for our ADSs may not be sustained. Our preferred ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since February 21, 2001, while our common ADSs have been listed on the New York Stock Exchange since August 7, 2000. We cannot predict whether an active liquid public trading market for our ADSs will be sustained on the New York Stock Exchange, where they 21 Table of Contents are currently traded. Active, liquid trading markets generally result in lower price volatility and more efficient execution of buy and sell orders for investors. Liquidity of a securities market is often a function of the volume of the underlying shares that are publicly held by unrelated parties. We do not anticipate that a public market for our common or preferred shares will develop in the United States. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may impair your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, and the proceeds of any sale of, the common or preferred shares underlying the ADSs and may impact our ability to service certain debt obligations, including standby purchase agreements we have entered into in support of PifCo’s notes. The Brazilian government may impose temporary restrictions on the conversion of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil. Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose these restrictions whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to foresee a serious imbalance. The Brazilian government imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1990. Similar restrictions, if imposed, could impair or prevent the conversion of dividends, distributions, or the proceeds from any sale of common or preferred shares from reais into U.S. dollars and the remittance of the U.S. dollars abroad. The Brazilian government could decide to take similar measures in the future. In such a case, the depositary for the ADSs will hold the reais it cannot convert for the account of the ADS holders who have not been paid. The depositary will not invest the reais and will not be liable for the interest. In addition, if the Brazilian government were to impose restrictions on our ability to convert reais into U.S. dollars, we would not be able to make payment on our dollar-denominated debt obligations. For example, any such restrictions could prevent us from making funds available to PifCo, for payment of its debt obligations, certain of which are supported by us through standby purchase agreements. If you exchange your ADSs for common or preferred shares, you risk losing the ability to remit foreign currency abroad and forfeiting Brazilian tax advantages. The Brazilian custodian for our common or preferred shares underlying our ADSs must obtain a certificate of registration from the Central Bank of Brazil to be entitled to remit U.S. dollars abroad for payments of dividends and other distributions relating to our preferred and common shares or upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares. If you decide to exchange your ADSs for the underlying common or preferred shares, you will be entitled to continue to rely, for five Brazilian business days from the date of exchange, on the custodian’s certificate of registration. After that period, you may not be able to obtain and remit U.S. dollars abroad upon the disposition of the common or preferred shares, or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares, unless you obtain your own certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, of January 26, 2000, of the Conselho Monetário Nacional (National Monetary Council), which entitles registered foreign investors to buy and sell on the São Paulo Stock Exchange. In addition, if you do not obtain a certificate of registration or register under Resolution No. 2,689, you may be subject to less favorable tax treatment on gains with respect to the common or preferred shares. If you attempt to obtain your own certificate of registration, you may incur expenses or suffer delays in the application process, which could delay your ability to receive dividends or distributions relating to the common or preferred shares or the return of your capital in a timely manner. The custodian’s certificate of registration or any foreign capital registration obtained by you may be affected by future legislative or regulatory changes and we cannot assure you that additional restrictions applicable to you, the disposition of the underlying common or preferred shares, or the repatriation of the proceeds from the process will not be imposed in the future. 22 Table of Contents You may face difficulties in protecting your interests as a shareholder because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and because holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs have fewer and less well-defined shareholders’ rights than those traditionally enjoyed by The United States shareholders. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporate Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the States of Delaware or New York, or in other jurisdictions outside Brazil. In addition, your rights as an ADS holder, which are derivative of the rights of holders of our common or preferred shares, as the case may be, to protect your interests against actions by our board of directors may be fewer and less well-defined under Brazilian Corporate Law than those under the laws of other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are considered crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing and the preservation of shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States, putting holders of our common shares, preferred shares and ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosure may be less complete or informative than what may be expected of a U.S. public company. We are a state-controlled company organized under the laws of Brazil and all of our directors and officers reside in Brazil. Substantially all of our assets and those of our directors and officers are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for you to effect service of process upon us or our directors and officers within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or our directors and officers judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain requirements are met, you may face greater difficulties in protecting your interest in actions against us or our directors and officers than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a state or other jurisdiction of the United States. Preferred shares and the ADSs representing preferred shares generally do not give you voting rights. A portion of our ADSs represent our preferred shares. Under Brazilian law and our bylaws, holders of preferred shares generally do not have the right to vote in meetings of our stockholders. This means, among other things, that holders of ADSs representing preferred shares are not entitled to vote on important corporate transactions or decisions. See Item 10. “Additional Information—Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of Petrobras—Voting Rights” for a discussion of the limited voting rights of our preferred shares. Enforcement of our obligations under the standby purchase agreement might take longer than expected. We have entered into a standby purchase agreement in support of PifCo’s obligations under its notes and indentures. Our obligation to purchase from the PifCo noteholders any unpaid amounts of principal, interest and other amounts due under the PifCo notes and the indenture applies, subject to certain limitations, irrespective of whether any such amounts are due at the maturity of the PifCo notes or otherwise. See “Additional Information—PifCo Senior Notes—Standby Purchase Agreements” and “Additional Information—PifCo Global Notes—Standby Purchase Agreements.” We have been advised by our counsel that the enforcement of the standby purchase agreement in Brazil against us, if necessary, will occur under a form of judicial process that, while similar, has certain procedural differences from those applicable to enforcement of a guarantee and, as a result, the enforcement of the standby purchase agreement may take longer than would otherwise be the case with a guarantee. If Brazilian law restricts us from paying PifCo in U.S. dollars, PifCo may have insufficient U.S. dollar funds to make payments on its debt obligations and we may not be able to pay our obligations under the standby purchase agreement in U.S. Dollars. Currently, payments by us to PifCo for the import of oil, the expected source of PifCo’s cash resources to pay its obligations under the PifCo notes, will not require approval by or registration with the Central Bank of 23 Table of Contents Brazil. There may be other regulatory requirements that we will need to comply with in order to make funds available to PifCo. Nonetheless, Central Bank of Brazil may impose prior approval requirements on the remittance of U.S. dollars abroad. If Brazilian law were to impose restrictions, limitations or prohibitions on our ability to convert reais into U.S. dollars, PifCo may not have sufficient U.S. dollar funds available to make payment on its debt obligations. In the case that the PifCo noteholders receive payments in reais corresponding to the equivalent U.S. Dollar amounts due under PifCo’s notes, it may not be possible to convert these amounts into U.S. Dollars. We will not need any prior or subsequent approval from the Central Bank of Brazil to use funds we hold abroad to comply with our obligations under the standby purchase agreement. We would be required to pay judgments of Brazilian courts enforcing our obligations under the standby purchase agreement only in reais If proceedings were brought in Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the standby purchase agreement, we would be required to discharge our obligations only in reais. Under the Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais, which is payable in Brazil pursuant to a decision of a Brazilian court, may be satisfied in reais at the rate of exchange, as determined by the Central Bank of Brazil, in effect on the date of payment. A finding that we are subject to U.S. bankruptcy laws and that the standby purchase agreement executed by us was a fraudulent conveyance could result in PifCo noteholders losing their legal claim against us. PifCo’s obligation to make payments on the PifCo notes is supported by our obligation under the standby purchase agreement to make payments on PifCo’s behalf. We have been advised by our external U.S. counsel that the standby purchase agreement is valid and enforceable in accordance with the laws of the State of New York and the United States. In addition, we have been advised by our general counsel that the laws of Brazil do not prevent the standby purchase agreement from being valid, binding and enforceable against us in accordance with its terms. In the event that U.S. federal fraudulent conveyance or similar laws are applied to the standby purchase agreement, and we, at the time we entered into the standby purchase agreement: • were or are insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of our entry into the standby purchase agreement; • were or are engaged in business or transactions for which the assets remaining with us constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur or incurred, or believed or believe that we would incur, debts beyond our ability to pay such debts as they mature; and • in each case, intended to receive or received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration therefor, then our obligations under the standby purchase agreement could be avoided, or claims with respect to the standby purchase agreement could be subordinated to the claims of other creditors. Among other things, a legal challenge to the standby purchase agreement on fraudulent conveyance grounds may focus on the benefits, if any, realized by us as a result of PifCo’s issuance of these notes. To the extent that the standby purchase agreement is held to be a fraudulent conveyance or unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the PifCo notes would not have a claim against us under the standby purchase agreement and will solely have a claim against PifCo. We cannot assure you that, after providing for all prior claims, there will be sufficient assets to satisfy the claims of the PifCo noteholders relating to any avoided portion of the standby purchase agreement. 