RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus before making an investment decision. The risks described below and in the documents we have incorporated by reference into this prospectus are not the only ones facing our company. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. The trading price of our Ordinary Shares could decline due to any of these risks, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Statements included or incorporated by reference in this prospectus that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws. These statements may contain works such as “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “estimates,” or other wording indicating future results or expectations. Forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from the results discussed in forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause our results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, those discussed below, elsewhere in this prospectus and in the documents we have incorporated by reference. We undertake no obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements to reflect any event or circumstance that may arise or develop after the date of this prospectus. Risks Related to our Business We have incurred losses in the past and may incur losses in the future. We have incurred substantial net losses during each of the last five fiscal years and may not achieve profitability in 2006 or in future years. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $113.8 million. In order to achieve profitability we will need to increase our revenues while containing or reducing our costs. However, a substantial portion of our expenses, including most product development and selling and marketing expenses, must be incurred in advance of when revenue is generated. Therefore, if our projected revenue does not meet our expectations, we are likely to experience an even larger shortfall in our operating profit relative to our expectations. While our revenues in 2005, 2004, and 2003 were $14.2 million, $11.9 million, and $12.0 million, respectively, we incurred net losses of $6.1 million, $4.2 million and $1.7 million, respectively, during these periods. We cannot assure you that we will be able to increase our revenues, or, that even if we are able to increase our revenues we will be able to achieve profitability or maintain profitability, if achieved, on a consistent basis. Our quarterly operating results have fluctuated significantly in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future which may adversely impact the price of our Ordinary Shares, making it difficult for investors to make reliable period-to-period comparisons and may contribute to volatility in the market price for our Ordinary Shares. Our quarterly revenues, gross profits and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect them to continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. The following events may cause fluctuations in our operating results and/or cause our share price to decline: • changes in global economic conditions in general, and conditions in our industry and target markets in particular; • changes in demand or timing of orders, especially large orders, for our products and services; • the length and unpredictability of our sales cycle; • timing of product releases; • the dollar value and timing of contracts; • delays in implementation; • the mix of revenue generated by product licenses and professional services; • price and product competition; • increases in selling and marketing expenses, as well as other operating expenses; • technological changes; • our ability to expand our workforce with qualified personnel, as may be needed; • the failure to maintain compliance with The Nasdaq Capital Market listing standards; 7 Table of Contents • reductions in the level of our cash balance and our ability to raise cash; • consolidation of our customers; • fluctuations in the economic factors impacting LIBOR which is the rate benchmark used to determine the interest expenses incurred by us on our bank borrowings per our bank arrangement; • the geographic mix of revenue; • integration and assimilation of management, employees and product lines of acquired companies; • effectiveness of our customer support, whether provided by our resellers or directly by us; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our historical results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and that you should not rely on them as an indication for future performance. Also, it is possible that our quarterly results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. If this happens, the price of our Ordinary Shares will likely decrease. We have substantially reduced the number of our employees during 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 and may be unable to meet certain revenue objectives and accordingly continue to incur losses. During 2004, we substantially increased our overall headcount from 86 at the beginning of 2004 to 126 at the end of 2004. Part of this increase was related to the assumption of 25 employees from the acquisition of Utility Partners. In June 2005, we added another 22 employees with the acquisition of e-Wise Solutions, raising our headcount to 148. After the acquisition of e-Wise, we determined that we had an excess of resources resulting from these acquisitions and took action to reduce headcount. These actions resulted in a reduction of our headcount to 120 at the end of December 2005, and 108 at the end of March 2006. Although we believe we currently have sufficient resources available to meet and support our current obligations in relation to our current staff, we may not be able to maintain this headcount. If we are forced to reduce headcount further, our ability to meet our growth goals and our business and operations may be negatively impacted. We may need to further expand our sales, marketing, research and development and professional services organizations but may lack the resources to do so, which may hinder our ability to grow and meet customer demands. We may need to substantially expand our headcount beyond our current staff in order to increase market awareness and sales of our products. We may also need to increase our quality assurance, technical and customer support staff to support new customers and the expanding needs of existing customers. These positions require training on the use of our products and we generally expect that the training period will take a significant amount of time before these personnel can support our customers. In addition, there is significant competition for qualified personnel. Competition for qualified people may lead to increased labor and personnel costs. If we need to hire additional employees and are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. If we are unable to attract, train and retain qualified personnel, we may not be able to achieve our objectives and our business could be harmed. Our future success depends on our ability to absorb and retain senior employees and to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified professional employees. Competition for these employees can be intense, especially in a number of our key markets and locations, including Israel. The process of locating, training and successfully integrating qualified personnel into our operations can be lengthy and expensive. The market for the qualified personnel we require is very competitive because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical and sales skills and understanding of our products and technology. This is particularly true in Israel where competition for qualified personnel is intense. We may not be able to compete effectively for the personnel we need. Any loss of members of senior management or key technical personnel, or any failure to attract or retain highly qualified employees as needed, could materially adversely affect our ability to achieve our research and development and sales objectives. We may need additional financing and may not be able to raise additional financing on favorable terms or at all. We had negative cash flow from operations for each of the past few years. In the past five years, we had an aggregate negative cash flow in the amount of $31.5 million. We raised gross proceeds of approximately $5.0 million from private 8 Table of Contents equity financing transactions during 2003, $2.5 million in a convertible note financing in July 2004, approximately $3.5 million in a combination of convertible note and equity financings during 2005, and approximately $1.4 million from in private equity financing transactions in 2006 to date. However, we expect that we will need additional financing to fund our business operations. Any additional financing that is structured as a secured debt financing may require the consent of our main creditors, Bank Hapoalim, LibertyView Special Opportunities Fund, L.P. (“LibertyView”) and a group of investors including Alpha Capital Aktiengesellschaft, Ellis International Ltd., Globis Capital Partners LP, Omega Capital SmallCap Fund, Ltd., and Iroquois Master Fund Ltd. (the “September 2005 Investor Group”). We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms favorable to us, or at all. In the event that the market price of our Ordinary Shares declines, we may not be able to consummate a private equity financing transaction to raise additional financing. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our day to day operations, expand our research and development, marketing and sales efforts, pursue potential acquisitions, take advantage of unanticipated opportunities, develop or enhance our website content, features or services, or otherwise respond to competitive pressures would be severely constrained. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our existing shareholders will be reduced, and any newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing shareholders. We will need sufficient funds to re-pay our loans from Bank Hapoalim, which may be subject to immediate repayment if we do not meet our repayment schedule or meet specified conditions. As of December 15, 2005, we had one quarterly payment remaining on the outstanding balance of long-term loan arrangement with Bank Hapoalim of $267,000, and we also had an outstanding balance in our short-term borrowings with Bank Hapoalim of approximately $1.9 million. On December 22, 2005, we refinanced our debt arrangement with Bank Hapoalim by converting $1.8 million of the outstanding short-term borrowings to long-term debt payable over three years in equal quarterly installments of $150,000, with the first payment due on April 1, 2006 and with interest payable quarterly at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.25%. As of June 1, 2006, the outstanding balance on our long-term loan arrangement with Bank Hapoalim was $1,650,000. This long-term debt is subject to the following covenants: (i) our shareholders equity, on a quarterly basis, starting on January 1, 2006, shall be at least the higher of (a) 17% of our total assets, or (b) $3.0 million, and (ii) our cash balance (a) on January 1, 2006 shall not be less than $1.0 million, and (b) on a quarterly basis, beginning July 1, 2006 shall not be less than $1.0 million. On June 6, 2006, we reported our financial results for the period ended March 31, 2006, which indicated that our shareholders’ equity was below the $3.0 million level required per the shareholders’ equity covenant with the bank. On June 27, 2006, we received a waiver from Bank Hapoalim for this covenant as it relates to the March 31, 2006 shareholders’ equity. We may need to obtain funding from third parties to meet the payment obligations under the abovementioned loan arrangement in a timely manner, and there is no assurance that Bank Hapoalim will grant us an extension to these payment dates in the future, if requested. There can be no assurance that we will meet these covenants or that the bank will waive the compliance with any such covenants in the event that we do not meet them. If we fail to meet the quarterly payments to Bank Hapoalim or to meet these covenants, the bank may demand immediate repayment of the outstanding debts and all interest thereon and shall be entitled to exercise the remedies available to it. This would have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to maintain compliance with the listing rules of The Nasdaq Capital Market in which case our shares would be delisted, which could adversely affect the market price and trading market of our Ordinary Shares. Our Ordinary Shares have been listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market (formerly known as The Nasdaq SmallCap Market) since December 31, 2002. We were previously listed on The Nasdaq National Market but were unable to comply with some of its maintenance standards. The Nasdaq Capital Market has several maintenance standards for continued listing, including the requirements (i) that we maintain (a) shareholders’ equity of at least $2.5 million, (b) market value of $35.0 million or (c) net income from operations of $0.5 million in the last fiscal year or in two of the last three fiscal years, (ii) that we have at least 500,000 shares held by persons or entities other than our officers, directors and beneficial owners of more than 10% of our Ordinary Shares (the “Public Float”), (iii) that we have an aggregate market value of Public Float of at least $1.0 million, (iv) that we have at least two market makers, (v) that we have at least 300 shareholders who hold at least 100 Ordinary Shares each, and (vi) that we shall be in compliance with all corporate governance under rules 4350 and 4351 (the foregoing requirements are collectively referred to as the “Maintenance Standards”). In July 2003 and June 2005, we were notified by Nasdaq that we were not in compliance with the listing standard for shareholders’ equity and were required to provide Nasdaq with a plan to regain compliance or our shares would be subject to delisting. In both instances, we submitted 9 Table of Contents a plan to Nasdaq and, in both instances, we completed financing transactions that enabled us to regain compliance with the listing standard in question. On February 6, 2006, we were notified by Nasdaq that we were not in compliance with the listing standard for shareholders’ equity and were subject to delisting from The Nasdaq Capital Market on the opening of business on February 15, 2006. In accordance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4800 series, we submitted a request for a hearing before the Nasdaq Listing Qualifications Panel (the “Panel”) to review the Staff’s determination and the Panel agreed to hold the hearing on March 9, 2006. The act of requesting the hearing stayed the delisting of our Ordinary Shares and allowed our Ordinary Shares to continue to be traded on the Nasdaq Capital Market until the outcome of the hearing was known, At the hearing with the Panel, we presented our plan to regain compliance with the listing standard for shareholders’ equity and sustain compliance for the future. Our plan was initially approved by the Panel on April 13, 2006 and subsequently modified by us on May 19, 2006 subject to us meeting certain conditions set forth by the Panel within a specified timeframe. Based on these conditions, on June 7, 2006 we filed a Form 6-K, which included a pro-forma balance sheet less than sixty (60) days old adjusted for certain financial transactions that were concluded by us subsequent to March 31, 2006, that indicated our shareholders equity was in excess of $2.5 million. Since March 31, 2006, we have completed three financial transactions that affected our stockholders’ equity: (i) on June 6, 2006, we completed an equity investment of $1.1 million with two existing investors and one new investor at a price of $0.939 per Ordinary Share with warrants to purchase up to 234,292 Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of $1.127 per Ordinary Share, (ii) on June 6, 2006, we completed an equity investment of $250,000 with an existing investor at a price of $0.939 per Ordinary Share with warrants to purchase up to 53,248 Ordinary Shares at an exercise price of $1.127 per Ordinary Share, and (iii) on June 2, 2006, we converted $2.0 million of the principal amount of the $2.98 million convertible note with LibertyView to Preferred A Shares at a fixed conversion price of $1.53 per Preferred A Share. As a result of the transactions completed above and the Form 6-K filed on June 7, 2006, we received notification from Nasdaq on June 9, 2006 under which they informed us that based on our Form 6-K, they have determined that we comply with Marketplace Rules 4320(c)(2)(B). Nasdaq also informed us that we remain on a Panel monitor under which we are obligated to file within sixty days of the end of each fiscal quarter ending on or before June 30, 2007, a Form 6-K that includes financial statements for the prior quarter and demonstrates compliance with the minimum $2.5 million shareholders’ equity requirement. If at the time of our next periodic report we do not evidence compliance, our Ordinary Shares may be subject to immediate delisting. The delisting of our Ordinary Shares from The Nasdaq Capital Market may materially impair the ability of our shareholders to buy and sell our Ordinary Shares, even if they qualify for inclusion on the Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB), and could have an adverse effect on the market price and the trading market for our Ordinary Shares. In addition, the delisting of our Ordinary Shares could significantly impair our ability to raise capital should we desire to do so in the future or utilize our Ordinary Shares in consideration for acquisitions. If we fail to maintain effective system of internal controls over financial reporting, we may not be able to report our financial results accurately. As a result, we could be subject to costly litigation, and current and potential shareholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which could harm our business and the trading price of our Ordinary Shares. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are required for us to provide reliable financial reports. We determined that a material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting existed as of December 31, 2003 consisting of ineffective controls to identify errors in the application of complex accounting standards to our software licensing transactions. Since then, we believe that we have managed to eliminate the aforementioned material weakness. However, if we fail to implement and maintain an effective system of internal controls, we could be subject to costly litigation, investors could lose confidence in our reported financial information and our brand and operating results could be harmed, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our Ordinary Shares. We face risks relating to the restatement of our financial statements. On two occasions we restated our 2000, 2001, 2002, and 2003 financial statements. The restatements were reported on December 9, 2004 and March 17, 2005 and the impact on our financial statements was reported first in our Report on Form 20-F/A dated March 25, 2005 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. These restatements or any other restatement of our financial statements may lead to litigation claims against us. The defense of any claims which may arise in connection with these or any other restatement may cause the diversion of management’s attention and resources, and we may be required to pay damages if any such claims are not resolved in our favor. Any litigation, even if resolved in our favor, may cause us to incur significant legal and other expenses. 10 Table of Contents The market price of our Ordinary Shares may be volatile and you may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at all. The stock market in general has recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. The market prices of securities of technology companies have been extremely volatile, and have experienced fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market fluctuations could adversely affect the market price of our Ordinary Shares. The market price of the Ordinary Shares may fluctuate substantially due to a variety of factors, including: • any actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial condition and operating results; • our inability to meet any guidance or forward looking information, if provided; • public announcements concerning us or our competitors; • the introduction or market acceptance of new service offerings by us or our competitors; • changes in security analysts’ financial estimates; • changes in accounting principles; • sales of our Ordinary Shares by existing shareholders; • limited market for our shares; • the need to raise additional capital through private or public debt or equity financings; • our ability to maintain compliance with all The Nasdaq Capital Market listing standards; and • changes in the political conditions in Israel. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the market prices of their securities. We may be the target of similar litigation in the future. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management’s attention and resources, which could cause serious harm to our business. Future sales of our Ordinary Shares in the public market or issuances of additional securities could cause the market price for our Ordinary Shares to fall. The amount of our outstanding Ordinary Shares has increased substantially since August 4, 2003, commensurate with the timing of our initial need to raise additional capital. The increase in the amount of outstanding Ordinary Shares is due primarily to the private financings that have occurred which resulted in the issuance of 1,611,089 Ordinary Shares in exchange for approximately $5.0 million during the third and fourth quarters of 2003, the acquisition of Utility Partners, Inc. which resulted in the issuance of 898,485 Ordinary Shares in July 2004, the issuance of 581,659 Ordinary Shares in exchange for approximately $1.3 million in February 2005, the acquisition of e-Wise Solutions which resulted in the issuance of an aggregate of 555,778 Ordinary Shares in June and August of 2005, the issuance of 333,333 Ordinary Shares in exchange for approximately $0.7 million in August 2005, the issuance of 238,096 Ordinary Shares in exchange for approximately $0.5 million in September 2005, and the issuance of 1,437,700 Ordinary Shares in exchange for approximately $1.4 million in 2006 to date. As of June 7, 2006, we also had outstanding warrants to purchase 888,320 Ordinary Shares, and we have reserved up to 1,640,000 Ordinary Shares for issuance under our option plans, of which 202,669 options have been exercised as of June 7, 2006. In addition, we recently converted $2.0 million of our convertible note with LibertyView into 1,307,190 Preferred A Shares at an exercise price of $1.53 per Preferred A Share. These Preferred A Shares may be converted by LibertyView in its discretion into Ordinary Shares on a one-to-one basis at any time. In addition, the balance of the amounts due under our amended convertible note with LibertyView may be converted by LibertyView at any time into 444,444 Ordinary Shares, and our convertible note with the September 2005 Investor Group may be converted by the September 2005 Investor Group at any time into 226,758 Ordinary Shares. The sale, or availability for sale, of substantial quantities of our Ordinary Shares may have the effect of further depressing their market price. A large number of our Ordinary Shares that were previously subject to resale restrictions are currently eligible or shall soon be eligible for resale into the public market. 11 Table of Contents We have provided registration rights in the past to certain shareholders and more recently have agreed to provide certain registration rights in our equity financing transactions that closed in June 2006. In connection with certain of these rights, we filed a Registration Statement on Form F-3 with the SEC which was deemed effective on August 26, 2005 and increased the number of our Ordinary Shares eligible for resale into the public market by 2,080,057. On December 22, 2005, we filed another Registration Statement on Form F-3 with the SEC, which was deemed effective on January 26, 2006 and the number of our Ordinary Shares eligible for resale into the public market by an additional 4,067,305. In addition, under both Registration Statements a significant number of shares are eligible for resale in the future (i.e. those shares in the form of warrants that may be issued if the holders of these warrants decide to exercise such warrants as well as those shares that may be issued if the holders of convertible notes decide to convert such notes). Issuance of these shares will dilute existing shareholders. We may continue to issue equity or convertible securities and the issuance of these securities could be dilutive to our shareholders. Certain warrants and options, when issued, may be valued at fair value and we may reflect the appropriate charges in our financial statements at that time. Historically, our revenues have been concentrated in a few large orders and a small number of customers. Our business could be adversely affected if we lose a key customer. A significant portion of our revenues each year has been derived from large orders from a small number of customers which are not necessarily the same customers each year. In 2003, three customers each accounted for approximately 10% or more of revenues, and represented an aggregate of 41% of our total revenues. In 2004, two customers each accounted for approximately 10% or more of revenues, and represented an aggregate of 25% of our total revenues. In 2005, three customers each accounted for approximately 8% or more of revenues, and represented an aggregate of 31% of our total revenues. We do not expect that these three customers accounting for 31% of our revenue during 2005 will represent a substantial percentage of our revenues in the future. However, we do expect that a significant portion of our future revenues will continue to be derived from a relatively small number of customers. We cannot assure you that other customers will purchase our products and services in the future. The failure to secure new key customers, the loss of key customers or the occurrence of significant reductions in sales from a key customer would cause our revenues to significantly decrease and make it significantly more difficult for us to be profitable. Our sales cycle is variable and often long and involves investment of significant resources on our part, but may never result in actual sales and we may therefore suffer additional losses. Our sales cycle from our initial contact with a potential customer to the signing of a license and related agreements has historically been lengthy and variable. We generally must educate our potential customers about the use and benefit of our products and services, which can require the investment of significant time and resources, causing us to incur most of our product development and selling and marketing expenses in advance of a potential sale. In addition, a number of companies decide which products to buy through a request for proposal process. In those situations, we also run the risk of investing significant resources in a proposal that results in a competitor obtaining the desired contract from the customer or in a decision by a customer not to proceed. The purchasing decisions of our customers are subject to the uncertainties and delays of the budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that typically accompany significant capital expenditures. If our sales cycle lengthens, our quarterly operating results may become less predictable and may fluctuate more widely than in the past. Due to the relatively large size of some orders, a lost or delayed sale could have a material adverse effect on our quarterly revenue and operating results. If we are unable to accurately predict and respond to market developments or demands, our business will be adversely affected. The market for mobile workforce management software solutions is still evolving. This makes it difficult to predict demand and market acceptance for our products. Changes in technologies, industry standards, customer requirements and new product introductions by existing or future competitors could render our existing products obsolete and unmarketable, or require us to develop new products. We have limited development resources to expend on product development and those resources are utilized mainly for responding to the needs of our current customers. Therefore, we may be unable to timely develop products that meet the market’s future needs. If we were to experience a significant increase in the number of customers, or were to decide to effect a significant increase in our development of new product offerings, or both, we would need to expend significant amounts of money, time and other resources. This could strain our personnel and financial resources. 12 Table of Contents During the past few years, we have experienced increases in our revenues from services and decreases in our revenues from software licenses. If this trend resumes, it may adversely affect our gross margins and profitability. Our revenues from the sale of software licenses decreased to approximately $1.7 million in 2005 from approximately $3.1 million in 2004 and approximately $4.1 million in 2003. Our revenues from services increased to approximately $12.5 million in 2005 from approximately $8.8 million in 2004 and approximately $7.9 million in 2003. Our gross margin from software licenses is substantially higher than our gross margin from services, since our cost of services, which includes expenses of salaries and related benefits of the employees engaged in providing the services, is substantially higher than our cost of software licenses. If the trend of decreases in software license revenues and increases in services revenues continues, our gross margins and profitability may be adversely affected. If we fail to stabilize or improve our margins on service revenues in the future, our results of operations could suffer. Our margins on service revenues have not been consistent. In 2005, our margins on services revenues were 37% compared to 23% in 2004 and 36% in 2003. In order to stabilize or improve our margins on services revenues, we will need to maintain or increase the efficiency and utilization of our services personnel, consistently control our costs, and increase the volume of our services revenues. There is no assurance that we will be able to maintain or improve our services margins, or, that they will not decline further in the future. Our ability to maintain or increase our revenues may depend on our ability to make sales through third parties. We rely upon resellers and channel partners to generate a substantial portion of our revenues. We expect this reliance to continue due to our limited internal sales and marketing resources in existing markets and to increase due to our desire to penetrate new vertical markets for our products in North America, and expand into new geographic markets for our products outside of North America. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many resellers and channel partners, even if we manage to maintain and expand our relationship with such resellers and channel partners, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from those resellers and channel partners so as to meet all of our customers’ needs. If anticipated orders from these resellers and channel partners fail to materialize, or if our current business agreements with resellers and channel partners are terminated, our business, operating results and financial condition will be materially adversely affected. We will be required to record a compensation expense in connection with grants of stock options and restricted shares and, as a result, our profitability may be reduced significantly. The Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) has recently issued an accounting standard that will require that the fair value of all equity-based awards granted to employees be recognized in the statement of operations as a compensation expense, beginning in the first quarter of 2006. The various methods for determining the fair value of stock options are based on, among other things, the volatility of the underlying stock. The impact of the adoption of this standard cannot be predicted at this time because it will depend also on levels of share-based compensation granted in the future. Had we adopted this standard in prior periods, however, the impact would have had a material adverse effect on our profitability. The adoption of this standard could materially adversely affect our profitability in the future. Such adoption could also limit our ability to continue to use stock options as an incentive and retention tool, which could, in turn, hurt our ability to recruit employees and retain existing employees. If we are unable to maintain or expand our relationships with third party providers of implementation and consulting services, we may be unable to increase our revenues. To focus more effectively on our core business of developing and licensing software solutions, we need to establish and maintain additional relationships with third parties that can provide implementation and consulting services to our customers. Third-party implementation and consulting firms can also be influential in the choice of mobile workforce management solutions by new customers. If we cannot establish and maintain effective, long-term relationships with implementation and consulting providers, or if these providers do not meet the needs or expectations of our customers, we may be unable to increase our revenues and our business could be seriously harmed. As a result of the limited resources and capacities of many third-party implementation providers, we may be unable to attain sufficient focus and resources from the third-party providers to meet all of our customers’ needs, even if we establish relationships with these third parties. If sufficient resources are unavailable, we will be required to provide these services internally, which could limit our ability to expand our base of customers. We will be subject to significant risk as we cannot control the level and quality of service provided by these third parties. 13 Table of Contents Undetected defects may increase our costs and impair the market acceptance of our products and technology. Our software products are complex and may contain undetected defects, particularly when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. Testing of our products is particularly challenging because it is difficult to simulate the wide variety of customer environments in several geographic markets into which our products are deployed. Despite testing conducted by us and our customers, we have in the past shipped product releases with some defects, some customers have cited possible defects, and have otherwise discovered other defects in our products after their commercial shipment. Our products are frequently more critical to our customers’ operations compared to other software solutions used by such customers, and as a result, our customers may have a greater sensitivity to product defects relating to our products. Defects may be found in current or future products and versions after the start of commercial shipment. This could result in: • a delay or failure of our products to achieve market acceptance; • adverse customer reaction; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; • diversion of resources; and • increased service and maintenance costs. Defects could also subject us to legal claims. Although our license agreements contain limitation of liability provisions, these provisions may not be sufficient to protect us against these legal claims. The sale and support of our products, as well as our professional services, may also expose us to product liability claims. Greater market acceptance of our competitors’ products or decisions by potential or actual customers to develop their own service management solutions could result in reduced revenues and reduced gross margins. The market for mobile workforce management applications and the automation of field service delivery are highly competitive yet fragmented and stratified, although a number of our traditional competitors have been acquired by larger companies. We compete for the business of global or nationwide organizations that seek to support complex and sophisticated products across a variety of industries. We compete in the utilities and telecommunications segments of our markets against companies like SPL Group (via its acquisition of our competitor Axiom Corporation), Service Power Technologies, plc., Vista Equity Partners (via its acquisition of our competitor MDSI, Inc.), ClickSoftware, Ltd., Telcordia, and Intergraph Corporation. Our primary competitors in commercial and other general field service markets include enterprise application solution providers such as Astea International Inc. and Metrix Inc., along with traditional ERP and CRM software application vendors such as Oracle Corporation, Siebel Systems, Inc. and SAP A.G. Many of our competitors may have significant competitive advantages over us. These advantages may include greater technical and financial resources, more developed marketing and service organizations, greater expertise and broader customer bases and name recognition than us. Our competitors may also be in a better position to devote significant resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products, and to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase their ability to successfully market their products. We also expect that competition will increase as a result of consolidations in the industry. To the extent that we develop new products, we may begin to compete with companies with which we have not previously competed. We cannot assure you that competition will not result in price reductions for our products and services, fewer customer orders, deferred payment terms, reduced gross margins or loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. A number of potential customers have the ability to develop software solutions internally thereby eliminating the requirement for suppliers like us. This could result in reduced revenues or lost business for us. In addition to the above, decisions by potential customers to develop, in conjunction with systems integrators, and use their own internally developed solutions could result in reduced revenues and/or lost business for us. We rely on software from third parties. If we cannot continue using that software, we would have to spend additional capital to redesign our existing software and may not be able to compete in our markets. We utilize third-party software products to enhance the functionality of our products. Our business would be disrupted if functional versions of this software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms. In either case, we would be required to spend additional capital to either redesign our software to function 14 Table of Contents with alternate third-party software or develop these components ourselves. If functional versions of third-party software were either no longer available to us or no longer offered to us on commercially reasonable terms, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product offerings and the commercial release of our products could be delayed, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2001, we have depended upon our principal product, the ViryaNet Service Hub and related applications, and the failure of this product in the marketplace in the future could adversely affect our revenues. In the past, we have depended on and expect to continue to depend on the success of our principal product, ViryaNet Service Hub, and related applications. If our product does not achieve or maintain market acceptance or if our competitors release new products that achieve quicker or greater market acceptance, have more advanced features, offer better performance or are more price competitive, our revenues may not grow and may even decline. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights, which may limit our ability to compete effectively. Our success and ability to compete are substantially dependent upon our internally developed technology. Other than our trademarks, most of our intellectual property consists of proprietary or confidential information that is not subject to patent or similar protection. In general, we have relied on a combination of technical leadership, trade secret, copyright and trademark law and nondisclosure agreements to protect our proprietary know-how. Unauthorized third parties may attempt to copy or obtain and use the technology protected by those rights. Any infringement of our intellectual property could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Policing unauthorized use of our products is difficult and costly, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. In connection with some of our licensing agreements, we have placed, and in the future may place, our software in escrow. The software may, under specified circumstances, be made available to our customers and resellers and this may increase the likelihood of misappropriation or other misuse of our software. Substantial litigation over intellectual property rights exists in the software industry. We expect that software products may be increasingly subject to third-party infringement claims as the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps. We believe that many industry participants have filed or intend to file patent and trademark applications covering aspects of their technology. We cannot be certain that they will not make a claim of infringement against us based on our products and technology. Any claims, with or without merit, could: • be expensive and time-consuming to defend; • cause product shipment and installation delays; • divert management’s attention and resources; or • require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements to obtain the right to use a necessary product or component. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, and even if available on acceptable terms, shall increase our expenses and may materially affect our results of operations adversely. A successful claim of product infringement against us and our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Marketing and distributing our products outside of the United States and other international operations may require increased expenses and greater exposure to risks that we may not be able to successfully address. We market and sell our products and services in the United States, Europe and the Middle East, Asia and Australia. We received 30% of our total revenue in 2003, 21% of our total revenue in 2004, and 21% of our total revenue in 2005 from sales to customers located outside of the United States. In addition to our operations in the United States, we have sales and support facilities and offices in Israel, Japan, Singapore and Australia. These operations require, and the expansion of our existing operations and entry into additional international markets will require, significant management attention and financial resources. In addition, since our financial results are reported in dollars, decreases in the rate of exchange of non-dollar currencies in which we make sales relative to the dollar will decrease the dollar-based reported value of those sales. To the extent that decreases in exchange rates are not offset by a reduction in our costs, they may materially adversely affect our results of operation. Historically, we have not hedged our foreign currency-denominated account receivables and expenses risks. We are also subject to a number of risks customary for international operations, including: • differing technology standards and language requirements; 15 Table of Contents • changing product and service requirements in response to the formation of economic and marketing unions, including the European Economic Union; • economic or political changes in international markets; • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; and • multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. We depend on key personnel, and the loss of any key personnel could affect our ability to compete and our ability to attract additional key personnel may be impaired. We believe our future success will depend on the continued service of our executive officers and other key sales and marketing, product development and professional services personnel. The loss of the services of Mr. Samuel HaCohen, the co-founder and Executive Chairman of our Company, and other members of our senior management team could harm our business significantly. We have employment agreements with our executive officers, including Mr. HaCohen. Although these agreements generally require notification prior to departure, relationships with these officers and key employees are at will. The loss of any of our key personnel could harm our ability to execute our business or financial strategy and compete. Our executive officers, directors and affiliated entities will be able to influence matters requiring shareholder approval and they may disapprove actions that you voted to approve. As of June 7, 2006, our executive officers and directors serving as of such date, and entities affiliated with them, in the aggregate, beneficially owned approximately 24.7% of our outstanding Ordinary Shares, including options and warrants to purchase Ordinary Shares which are exercisable or will become exercisable within 60 days of June 7, 2006 (no restricted Ordinary Shares are released from restriction within 60 days of June 7, 2006). These shareholders, if acting together, will be able to significantly influence all matters requiring approval by our shareholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. Any future acquisitions of companies or technologies may distract our management and disrupt our business. On February 25, 2002 we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of iMedeon, Inc. (“iMedeon”), a provider of mobile workforce management solutions to the utilities sector and on July 29, 2004, we completed the acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of Utility Partners, Inc. On June 15, 2005, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets of e-Wise Solutions of Melbourne, Australia. We may, in the future, acquire or make investments in other complementary businesses, technologies, services or products if appropriate opportunities arise and we may engage in discussions and negotiations with companies about our acquiring or investing in those companies’ businesses, products, services or technologies. We cannot make assurances that we will be able to identify future suitable acquisition or investment candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, that we will have sufficient resources to complete such acquisitions or investments, will be able to make the acquisitions or investments on commercially acceptable terms or will be able to complete such acquisitions or investments at all. If we acquire or invest in another company, we could have difficulty assimilating that company’s personnel, operations, customers, technology or products and service offerings into our own. The key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, increase our expenses, consume cash resources, and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incur indebtedness or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisitions. The issuance of equity securities could be dilutive to our existing shareholders. Our business may become increasingly susceptible to numerous risks associated with international operations. Our operations outside the United States have grown in recent years. Our facilities are located in North America, Israel, Japan, Singapore, and Australia. This geographic dispersion requires significant management resources that may place us at a disadvantage compared to our locally based competitors. In addition, our international operations are generally subject to a number of risks, including: • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • longer sales cycles; 16 Table of Contents • multiple, conflicting and changing governmental laws and regulations; • greater dependency on partners; • time zone and cultural differences; • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local competition; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivables; and • political and economic instability. We expect international revenue to increase as a percentage of total revenue and we believe we must continue to expand our international sales and professional services activities in order to be successful. Our international sales growth will be limited if we are unable to expand our international sales management and professional services organizations either through a direct presence in local markets or through channel partners. If we fail to manage our geographically dispersed organization, we may fail to meet or exceed our business plan and our revenues may decline. Risks Related to Our Location in Israel It may be difficult to effect service of process and enforce judgments against directors, officers and experts in Israel. We are organized under the laws of the State of Israel. Many of our executives, directors, certain research and development employees, and some of the experts named in this annual report are nonresidents of the United States, and a substantial portion of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult to enforce a judgment obtained in the United States against us or any of those persons. It may also be difficult to enforce civil liabilities under United States federal securities laws in actions instituted in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel could negatively impact our business. Our principal research and development facilities are located in Israel. We are directly influenced by the political, economic and military conditions affecting Israel. Since the establishment of the state of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, which varies in degree and intensity, has caused security and economic problems in Israel. Any major hostilities involving Israel or the interruption or curtailment of trade between Israel and its present trading partners could adversely affect our operations. We cannot assure you that ongoing or revived hostilities related to Israel will not have a material adverse effect on us or our business and on our share price. Several Arab countries still restrict business with Israeli companies and these restrictions may have an adverse impact on our operating results, financial condition or the expansion of our business. We could be adversely affected by restrictive laws or policies directed towards Israel and Israeli businesses. Despite the progress towards peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, the future of these peace efforts is uncertain and although Israel has entered into various agreements with Egypt, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, there has been an increase in unrest and terrorist activity, which began in September 2000 and has continued with varying levels of severity into 2006. The recent election of representatives of the Hamas movement to a majority of seats in the Palestinian Legislative Council may create additional unrest and uncertainty. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel, under the age of 45 in some cases, are, unless exempt, obligated to perform up to 36 days of military reserve duty annually. Additionally, all Israeli residents of this age are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Many of our employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Although we have operated effectively under these requirements since we began operations, we cannot assess the full impact of these requirements on our workforce or business if political and military conditions should change, and we cannot predict the effect on us of any expansion or reduction of these obligations. We may be adversely affected if the rate of inflation in Israel exceeds the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. Most of our revenues are in dollars or are linked to the dollar, while a portion of our expenses, principally salaries and the related expenses for our Israeli operations, are in NIS. We do not utilize hedging to manage currency risk and, therefore, are exposed to the risk that the rate of inflation in Israel will exceed the rate of devaluation of the NIS in relation to the dollar or that the timing of this devaluation lags behind inflation in Israel. This would have the effect of increasing the dollar cost of our operations. In 1999 and in 2000, while the rate of inflation was low, there was a devaluation of the dollar against the NIS, and in 2001 the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar exceeded the rate of inflation. In 2002, the devaluation of the NIS against the dollar was similar to the rate of inflation. In 2003, the NIS gained in value against the dollar while the rate of inflation was negative. In 2004, the NIS gained 2% in value against the dollar while the rate of inflation was 1%. In 2005, the NIS lost 6.7% in value against the dollar and the rate of inflation was 2.4%. We cannot predict any future trends in the rate of 17 Table of Contents inflation in Israel or the rate of devaluation of the NIS against the dollar. If the dollar cost of our operations in Israel increases, our dollar-measured results of operations will be adversely affected. The tax benefits that we currently receive from the Investment Center of the Israeli Ministry of Industry, Trade and Labor require us to meet several conditions and may be terminated or reduced in the future, which would increase our taxes. We receive tax benefits under Israeli law for capital investments that are designated as approved enterprises. To maintain our eligibility for these tax benefits, we must continue to meet conditions stipulated in applicable law and in our specific approvals, including making specified investments in fixed assets. If we fail to comply with these conditions, in whole or in part, with respect to any approved enterprise program we establish, we may be required to pay additional taxes for the period in which we benefited from the tax exemption or reduced tax rates and we would likely be denied these benefits in the future. We may submit requests for new programs to be designated as approved enterprises. These requests might not be approved, particularly in light of difficult economic conditions in Israel. In addition, in March 2005, the law governing these tax benefits was amended to revise the criteria for investments that qualify for tax benefits as an approved enterprise. We cannot assure you that we will, in the future, be eligible to receive additional tax benefits under this law. The termination or reduction of these tax benefits could seriously harm our financial condition and results of operations. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees. We currently have non-competition agreements with our employees. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors. Recently, Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures restrict our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. From time to time we have received royalty-bearing grants from the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Government of Israel (“OCS”). The transfer to a non-Israeli entity of technology developed with OCS funding, including pursuant to a merger or similar transaction, and the transfer of rights related to the manufacture of more than ten percent of a product developed with OCS funding are subject to approval by an OCS committee and to various conditions, including payment by us to the OCS of a percentage of the consideration paid to us or our shareholders in the transaction in which the technology is transferred. In connection with a merger or similar transaction, the amount payable would be a fraction of the consideration equal to the relative amount invested by the OCS in the development of the relevant technology compared to the total investment in our company, net of financial assets that we have at the time of the transaction, but in no event less than the amount of the grant. In addition, in the event that the committee believes that the consideration to be paid in a transaction requiring payment to the OCS pursuant to the provisions of the law described above does not reflect the true value of the technology or the company being acquired, it may determine an alternate value to be used as the basis for calculating the requisite payments. These restrictions may impair our ability to enter into agreements for those products or technologies, without OCS approval. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the OCS, we may be required to refund any grants previously received, together with interest and penalties. Our United States investors could suffer adverse tax consequences if we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company. Although we believe that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company in 2005, we cannot assure the shareholders that we will not be treated as a passive foreign investment company in 2005 or in future years. We would be a passive foreign investment company if (i) 75% or more of our gross income in a taxable year, including the pro rata share of the gross income of any company, US or foreign, in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, is passive income, or (ii) at least 50% of the average value of our assets (or possibly the adjusted bases of our assets in particular circumstances), including the pro rata share of the assets of any company in which we are considered to own 25% of the shares by value, in a taxable year produce, or are held for the production of, passive income. Passive income includes interest, dividends, royalties, rents and annuities. If we are or become a passive foreign investment company, many of the shareholders will be subject to adverse tax consequences, including: • taxation at the highest ordinary income tax rates in effect during your holding period on some distributions on our Ordinary Shares and gain from the sale or other disposition of our Ordinary Shares; 18 Table of Contents • paying interest on taxes allocable to prior periods; and • no increase in the tax basis for our Ordinary Shares to fair market value at the date of your death. 