Item 1A: Risk Factors You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this annual report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In evaluating our company, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below and in documents we incorporate by reference. This annual report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common shares. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy We have a limited operating history in the oil and gas business, and we cannot predict our future operations with any certainty. Our oil and gas operations commenced in 2003. Our future financial results depend primarily on (1) our ability to discover commercial quantities of oil and gas; (2) the market price for oil and gas; (3) our ability to continue to generate potential exploration prospects; and (4) our ability to fully implement our exploration and development program. We cannot predict that our future operations will be profitable. In addition, our operating results may vary significantly during any financial period. These variations may be caused by significant periods of time between discovery and development of oil or gas reserves in commercial quantities. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with sales of our securities, sale of our interest in oil and gas properties and cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our known capital expenditures for 2008 primarily with existing capital and cash flow from operations. We may generate additional capital to fund increases in capital expenditures through any of: 1) the sale of some oil and gas lease interests, 2) additional sales of our securities, and 3) debt financing. We may not be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to grow our oil and natural gas reserves and cash flow would be severely impacted if we are unable to obtain equity or debt financing as we may not be able to continue to drill all or some of our projects. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and a decline in oil and natural gas prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and liquidity are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas, which can be extremely volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the price of foreign imports; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and the variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices. 9 Table of Contents We have incurred losses from operations in the past and may do so in the future. Although we had net income in 2006 and 2005, we incurred a net loss in 2007. Our exploration and development of, and participation in, additional prospects will require additional capital expenditures. The uncertainty and factors described throughout this section may impede our ability to economically find, develop, exploit and acquire natural gas and oil reserves. As a result, we may not be able to achieve or sustain profitability or positive cash flows from operating activities in the future. We may be unable to find additional reserves. Our revenues depend on whether we acquire or find additional reserves. Unless we acquire properties containing proved reserves or conduct successful exploration and development activities, or both, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Our planned exploration and development projects may not result in significant additional reserves. We may be unable to drill productive wells at low reserve replacement costs. Our short-term investments consist primarily of auction rate securities that are affected by the current poor credit market which, if conditions worsen, could result in material losses. As of December 31, 2007, the total amount of our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments was $20,700,000, consisting of $2,400,000 in cash and cash equivalents and $18,300,000 in short-term investments. Our short-term investments included $17,325,000 of auction rate securities. Our auction rate investments consist of variable-coupon preferred stocks issued by several US-based taxable closed-end mutual funds that invest primarily in corporate securities, and are known as auction market preferred shares (“AMPS”). All of our AMPS are AAA credit-rated by one or more of the major credit rating agencies. Historically, liquidity in AMPS has been provided via an auction process occurring every 7 days or every 28 days, at which time the dividend rate is reset. Dividends on the AMPS are paid on the day after the scheduled auction date. Recently, these auctions and similar auctions have had insufficient bids to buy the securities from those wishing to sell. Two of the largest groups of taxable closed end mutual funds with AMPS have recently announced plans to use debt to redeem at par value AMPS of their taxable closed end mutual funds. However, the issuer groups of our AMPS (the largest being Calamos funds) have not announced similar plans. The absence of an auction requires the issuer of the AMPS to pay a higher dividend, but does not create a default by the issuer. Dividends are being paid currently on all of our AMPS. To increase our cash balances to approximately $9,600,000, we borrowed $8,600,000 on March 14, 2008 from an affiliate of our broker. The loan is secured by our AMPS investments and matures on September 30, 2008. The note payable bears interest approximating a 5.5% annual rate and that varies with the overnight LIBOR. We believe that the fair value of our investments in the AMPS continues to approximate the cost at which we acquired these securities. In the event that the U.S. credit crisis worsens or if other issues affect the value of our AMPS investments, we may not be able to recover the full value of our investment in these securities. If we were unable to do so and could not obtain other funding, we could suffer material losses that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and business. We could be adversely impacted by changes in the oil and gas market. The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions, changes in supply and changes in demand all could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors were to change dramatically, the financial impact could be substantial because we would incur expenses without receiving revenues from the sale of production. The availability of markets is beyond our control. Oil and gas operations are inherently risky. The nature of the oil and gas business involves a variety of risks, including operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs, and encountering formations with abnormal pressures. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in losses. The occurrence of any one of these significant events, if it is not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We are subject to extensive government regulations. Our business is affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including energy, environmental, conservation, tax and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. These include, but are not limited to: • the prevention of waste, • the discharge of materials into the environment, • the conservation of oil and natural gas, • pollution, • permits for drilling operations, • drilling bonds, and • reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, and the unitization and pooling of properties. 10 Table of Contents Failure to comply with any laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of injunctive relief, or both. Moreover, changes in any of the above laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. In view of the many uncertainties with respect to current and future laws and regulations, including their applicability to us, we cannot predict the overall effect of such laws and regulations on our future operations. New government regulation and environmental risks could increase our costs. Many jurisdictions have at various times imposed limitations on the production of oil and gas by restricting the rate of flow for oil and gas wells below their actual capacity to produce. Because current regulations covering our operations are subject to change at any time, we may incur significant costs for compliance in the future. Our prices may be impacted adversely by new taxes. The federal, state and local governments in which we operate impose taxes on the oil and gas products we sell. In the past, there has been a significant amount of discussion by legislators and presidential administrations concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. In addition, many states have raised state taxes on energy sources and additional increases may occur. We cannot predict whether any of these measures would have an adverse impact on oil and natural gas prices. Shortages of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel could delay or otherwise adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to operate according to our business plans. We may experience shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel which may cause delays in our ability to continue to drill, complete, test and connect wells to processing facilities. These costs have sharply increased in various areas. The demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews generally rise in response to the increased number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment or qualified personnel could delay, restrict or curtail our exploration and development operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of transportation services and processing facilities may result in our receiving a discount in the price we receive for oil and natural gas sales or may adversely affect our ability to sell our oil and natural gas. We may experience limited access to transportation lines, trucks or rail cars used to transport our oil and natural gas to processing facilities. We may also experience limited access to processing facilities. If either or both of these situations arise, we may not be able to sell our oil and natural gas at prevailing market prices. We may be completely unable to sell our oil and natural gas, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is illiquid, so investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. The average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 223,000 shares per day over the 90-day period ended March 7, 2008. If limited trading of our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. 11 Table of Contents Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results; • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any; • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors; • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry; • the success of our operating strategy; and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you acquired those shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. We may issue preferred stock with rights that are preferential to, and could cause a decrease in the value of, our common stock. We may issue up to 24.75 million shares of preferred stock without action by our stockholders. Rights or preferences could include, among other things: • the establishment of dividends which must be paid prior to declaring or paying dividends or other distributions to our common stockholders; • greater or preferential liquidation rights which could negatively affect the rights of common stockholders; and • the right to convert the preferred stock at a rate or price which would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares of common stock. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any unresolved written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 