Item 1A: Risk Factors You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this annual report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In evaluating our company, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below and in documents we incorporate by reference. This annual report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common shares. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. To better appreciate this discussion of risks, we encourage you to first read the descriptions of our business and assets in Item 2 “Properties” of this Part I and read Part 2 of this Form 10-K. Risks related to our industry, business and strategy We have incurred losses from operations in the past and may do so in the future. Although we had net income in 2006, we incurred a net loss in 2007 and in 2008. Our future financial results depend primarily on our ability to discover commercial quantities of oil and gas and to fully implement our exploration and development program. We cannot predict that our future operations will be profitable. In addition, our operating results may vary significantly during any financial period. These variations may be caused by significant periods of time between discovery and development of oil or gas reserves in commercial quantities. 10 Table of Contents Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and have substantially declined in recent months. The recent decline has adversely affected our financial results. Further price declines or even continuation of current low oil and natural gas prices could significantly affect our future financial results and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and liquidity are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas, which can be extremely volatile. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the price of foreign imports; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and the variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices. Our operations are focused on oil and gas exploration and production in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Regional oil and gas prices may vary from national prices due to regional factors such as regional gas production being constrained by regional gas pipeline capacity. The current global and US economic and financial crises may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict The current global and US economic recessions, credit crisis and related turmoil in national and global financial systems have substantially contributed to the dramatic decrease in oil and gas prices in the second half of 2008 and in the first three months of 2009. The price declines have adversely affected US oil and gas producers including us. The economic downturn and decline in oil and gas prices are providing declines in drilling costs and increased availability of field equipment, but those cost reductions may only partially mitigate the adverse effects of lower oil and gas prices. Uncertainties as to the extent, duration and impacts of the global and US crises increase uncertainties and risks for us. With the general economic and financial crises, (i) our ability to access capital markets is more restricted now than a year ago and may be restricted in the future when we may like, or need, to raise financing, (ii) our suppliers, customers and business partners may be unable to meet their obligations to us, (iii) we may be unable to profitably sell, extend or explore oil and gas lease rights we currently own and (iii) we may face unanticipated challenges to our business and financial condition. Unexpected bankruptcies of financial institutions or unexpected illiquidity of funds in cash-equivalent investments, such as money market funds, may limit or delay our access to our cash equivalent deposits, causing us to lose some or all of those funds or to incur additional costs to borrow funds needed on a short-term basis. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with sales of our securities, sale of certain oil and gas properties and, to a lesser extent, from cash generated by operations. We intend to finance our known capital expenditures for 2009 primarily with existing capital. We currently do not generate meaningful cash flow from our oil and natural gas production, even though our future depends on our ability to generate oil and natural gas operating cash flow. We may generate additional capital to fund increases in capital expenditures through any of: (i) the sale of some oil and gas lease interests, (ii) additional sales of our securities and/or (iii) debt financing. We may not be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to grow our oil and natural gas reserves and cash flow may be severely impacted if we are unable to obtain equity or debt financing as we may not be able to continue to drill all or some of our projects. 11 Table of Contents Oil and gas operations are inherently risky. The nature of the oil and gas business involves a variety of risks, particularly the risk of drilling wells that are found to be unable to produce any oil and gas or unable to produce and sell oil and gas at prices sufficient to repay the costs of the wells and the costs of producing the wells. As we have experienced in 2006 and in 2008, we may in the future recognize substantial impairment expenses when uneconomic wells and declines in oil and gas prices result in impairments of the capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties. The oil and gas business also includes operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs and encountering formations with abnormal pressures. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in losses. The occurrence of any one of these significant events, if it is not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We currently conduct our oil and gas activities in joint ventures with other oil and gas companies, whereby one of the other companies serves as the joint venture’s operator for the day-to-day management of the venture. Under terms of joint operating agreements, the operator is required to carry stated levels and types of casualty and liability insurance. In addition, we carry our own casualty and liability insurance for our interests in such ventures and carry additional insurance against well blow-outs and other unusual risks in the drilling, completion and operation of oil and gas wells. However, there may still be fires, blow-outs and other events that result in losses not fully covered by our insurance. We may be unable to find additional reserves. Our revenues depend on whether we find or acquire additional reserves. Unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities, or acquire properties, our proved reserves will decline. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production as well as our cash flow and income are dependent on our ability to efficiently develop and exploit our current reserves and economically find or acquire additional reserves. Our planned exploration and development projects may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may be unable to drill productive wells at low reserve replacement costs. We could be adversely impacted by changes in the oil and gas market. The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions, changes in supply and changes in demand all could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors were to change dramatically, the financial impact could be substantial because we would incur expenses without receiving revenues from the sale of production. The availability of markets is beyond our control. We are subject to extensive government regulations. Our business is affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including energy, environmental, conservation, tax and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. These include, but are not limited to: • the prevention of waste, • the discharge of materials into the environment, • the conservation of oil and natural gas, • pollution, • permits for drilling operations, • drilling bonds, and • reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, and the unitization and pooling of properties. 12 Table of Contents Failure to comply with any laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of injunctive relief, or both. Moreover, changes in any of the above laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Concerns of global warming may result in changes to laws and regulations that increase the cost of oil and gas operations and decrease the use and demand for crude oil and natural gas. In view of the many uncertainties with respect to current and future laws and regulations, including their applicability to us, we cannot predict the overall effect of such laws and regulations on our future operations. New government regulation and environmental risks could increase our costs. Many jurisdictions have at various times imposed limitations on the production of oil and gas by restricting the rate of flow for oil and gas wells below their actual capacity to produce. Because current regulations covering our operations are subject to change at any time, compliance in the future may require us to incur significant costs or activity restrictions. Our operations and financial condition may be impacted adversely by new taxes and changes to tax laws. The federal, state and local governments in which we operate impose taxes on the oil and gas products we sell and for many of our wells, sales and use taxes on significant portions of our drilling and operating costs. In the past, there has been a significant amount of discussion by legislators and presidential administrations concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. U.S. President Obama has recently proposed sweeping changes in federal laws on the income taxation of small oil and gas exploration and production companies such as us. President Obama has proposed to eliminate allowing small US oil and gas companies from (i) deducting intangible US well costs as incurred and (ii) taking percentage depletion deductions. Many states have raised state taxes on energy sources and additional increases may occur. Changes to the law could adversely affect our business and our financial results. Shortages of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel could delay or otherwise adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to operate according to our business plans. As we have encountered at times in the past, we or our joint venture operators may experience shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel which may cause delays in our ability to continue to drill, complete, test and connect wells to processing facilities. At times in the past, these costs have sharply increased in various areas. The demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews generally rise in response to the increased number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment or qualified personnel could delay, restrict or curtail our exploration and development operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of transportation services and processing facilities may result in our receiving a discount in the price we receive for oil and natural gas sales or may adversely affect our ability to sell our oil and natural gas. As we have experienced at times in the past, we may experience limited access to transportation lines, trucks or rail cars used to transport our oil and natural gas to processing facilities. We may also experience limited access to processing facilities. If either or both of these situations arise, we may not be able to sell our oil and natural gas at prevailing market prices. We may be completely unable to sell our oil and natural gas, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by customer(s) and industry partners unable to meet their obligations. Substantially all of our accounts receivable arise from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the oil and gas industry. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by one or more of such third parties being unable to meet their obligations to us. 13 Table of Contents Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock is thinly traded, so investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. The average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 172,000 shares per trading day over the 90-day period ended March 6, 2009. If limited trading of our stock continues, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. We meet normal exchange guidelines for the continuation of trading of our common stock, but unexpected de-listing may occur. The Company trades on the NYSE Alternext U.S. exchange (i.e., the American Stock Exchange, which was acquired by the New York Stock Exchange in 2008). NYSE Alternext U.S. continues to use the AMEX Corporate Guide on criteria as to whether the exchange should “de-list” a listed company. Under that Guide, the exchange has the right, at its discretion, to cease trading the stock of any company but normally considers de-listing of a company’s common stock in one of four general cases, none of which we believe is true for us: 1. the listed company has stockholders equity of less than $6 million or if the Exchange believes it questionable that the issuer will be able to continue operations or meet its obligations as they mature; 2. the listed company has less than 200,000 shares outstanding (excluding shares held by insiders and controlling shareholders); 3. the listed company has sold its operating assets and ceased to be an operating company or its shares have no value; and 4. the listed company fails to comply with Listing Requirements of the exchange or with SEC requirements. Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, such as declines in the prices of oil and gas, • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • the success of our operating strategy and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you acquired those shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. We may issue debt or preferred stock with rights that are preferential to, and could cause a decrease in the value of, our common stock. We may issue debt and/or up to 24.1 million shares of preferred stock without action by our stockholders. Rights or preferences of the debt or preferred shares could include, among other things: • the establishment of principal and interest obligations or dividends which must be paid prior to declaring or paying dividends or other distributions to our common stockholders, • a security interest in some or all of our assets that could be foreclosed in the event of default of a loan agreement or similar instrument, • greater or preferential liquidation rights which could negatively affect the rights of common stockholders and • the right to convert the debt or preferred stock at a rate or price which would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares of common stock. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any unresolved written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 