ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock is speculative and involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this prospectus, including the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of our Company, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business Prices of natural gas can be subject to significant fluctuations, which may affect our ability to provide supplies to our customers. We obtain most of our supplies of natural gas from a government owned entity and our supply contracts are subject to review every six months. However, our costs for natural gas are strictly controlled by the government and have remained stable over the past 3 years. Management does not expect any difficulty in continuing to renew the supply contracts during the next 12 months. The price of natural gas can fluctuate in response to changing national or international market forces. Accordingly, price levels of natural gas may rise or fall significantly over the short to medium term due to political events, OPEC actions and other factors, industry economics over the long term. 8 We are dependent on supplies of natural gas to deliver to our customers. With the exception of certain compressed and liquid natural gas supplies, we obtain our supplies of natural gas from one supplier, which is a government owned entity. The ability to deliver our product is dependent on a sufficient supply of natural gas and if we are unable to obtain a sufficient natural gas supply, it could prevent us making deliveries to our customers. While we have supply contracts, we do not control the government owned or other suppliers, nor are we able to control the amount of time and effort they put forth on our behalf. It is possible that our suppliers will not perform as expected, and that they may breach or terminate their agreements with us. It is also possible that, after a semi-annual review of our primary supply contract, they will choose to provide services to a competitor. Any failure to obtain supplies of natural gas could prevent us from delivering such to our customers and could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Our business operations are subject to a high degree of risk and insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. Our operations are subject to potential hazards incident to the gathering, processing, separation and storage of natural gas, such as explosions, product spills, leaks, emissions and fires. These hazards can cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment, and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our operations. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, and/or the failure of a party to meet its indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates it considers reasonable. To date, however, we have maintained adequate coverage at reasonable rates and have experienced no material uninsured losses. Changes in the regulatory atmosphere could adversely affect our business. The distribution of natural gas and operations of filling stations are highly regulated requiring registrations for the issuance of licenses required by various governing authorities in China. In addition, various standards must be met for filling stations including handling and storage of natural gas, tanker handling, and compressor operation which are regulated. The costs of complying with regulations in the future may harm our business. Furthermore, future changes in environmental laws and regulations could result in stricter standards and enforcement, larger fines and liability, and increased capital expenditures and operating costs, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. We depend on our senior management's experience and knowledge of the industry and would be adversely affected by the loss of any of our senior managers. We are dependent on the continued efforts of our senior management team. We do not currently have employment contracts with our senior executives. If, for any reason, our senior executives do not continue to be active in management, our business, or the financial condition of our Company, our results of operations could be adversely affected. In addition, we do not maintain life insurance on our senior executives and other key employees. 9 We may need to raise capital to fund our operations, and our failure to obtain funding when needed may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate acquisitions and business development plans. If in the future, we are not capable of generating sufficient revenues from operations and our capital resources are insufficient to meet future requirements, we may have to raise funds to continue the development, commercialization and marketing of our business. We cannot be certain that funding will be available. To the extent that we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience significant dilution. Any debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants that impact our ability to conduct our business. If we are unable to raise additional capital if required or on acceptable terms, we may have to delay, scale back, discontinue our planned acquisitions or business development plans or obtain funds by entering into agreements on unattractive terms. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China China’s economic policies could affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. While China's economy has experienced a significant growth in the past twenty years, growth has been irregular, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall economy of China, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our operating results and financial condition may be adversely affected by the government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations. The economy of China has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. In recent years the Chinese government has implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform and the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of corporate governance in business enterprises; however, a substantial portion of productive assets in China are still owned by the Chinese government. In addition, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. It also exercises significant control over China's economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Capital outflow policies in The People's Republic of China may hamper our ability to remit income to the United States. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of Renminbi into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency outside of the PRC. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas Co. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy its foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required in those cases in which Renminbi is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of the PRC to pay capital expenses, such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government also may at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. 10 Although we do not import goods into or export goods out of The People's Republic of China, fluctuation of the RMB may indirectly affect our financial condition by affecting the volume of cross-border money flow. The value of the RMB fluctuates and is subject to changes in the People's Republic of China political and economic conditions. Since July 2005, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including USD, has been based on rates set by the People's Bank of China which are set based upon the interbank foreign exchange market rates and current exchange rates of a basket of currencies on the world financial markets. As of March 13, 2008, the exchange rate between the RMB and the United States dollar was 7.095 RMB to every one USD. We may face obstacles from the communist system in The People's Republic of China. Foreign companies conducting operations in The People's Republic of China face significant political, economic and legal risks. The Communist regime in The People's Republic of China, including a stifling bureaucracy may hinder Western investment. We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in The People's Republic of China. The People's Republic of China historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in The People's Republic of China. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Because our assets and operations are located in China, you may have difficulty enforcing any civil liabilities against us under the securities and other laws of the United States or any state. We are a holding company, and all of our assets are located in the Republic of China. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-residents, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. There is uncertainty as to whether courts of the Republic of China would enforce: · Judgments of United States courts obtained against us or these non-residents based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or · In original actions brought in the Republic of China, liabilities against us or non-residents predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in the Republic of China also may be limited or otherwise affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors' rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. 11 The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties, which could limit law enforcement availability. The PRC legal system is a civil law system based on written statutes. Unlike common law systems, decided legal cases have little precedence. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation over the past 27 years has significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Each of our PRC operating subsidiaries and affiliates is subject to PRC laws and regulations. However, these laws and regulations change frequently and the interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For instance, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we are entitled to by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting statutory and contractual terms, it may be difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative court proceedings and the level of law enforcement that we would receive in more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts, could affect our business and operation. In addition, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with regard to the industries in which we operate, including the promulgation of new laws. This may include changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the availability of law enforcement, including our ability to enforce our agreements with the government entities and other foreign investors. The admission of China into the World Trade Organization could lead to increased foreign competition. Provincial and central government authorities regulate the natural gas industry for safety and ensure that all areas receive natural gas service. However, as a result of China becoming a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), restrictions on foreign investment in the industry may be reduced. With China's need to meet growth in natural gas demand and the WTO's requirement for a reduction of restrictions on foreign investment as a condition of membership, such events could lead to increased competition in the natural gas industry. PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity, XXNG, and its shareholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 12 We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of natural gas business and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The PRC government regulates the natural gas industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the natural gas industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the bio-pharmaceutical industry include the following: · we only have contractual control over XXNG. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in Chinese businesses; and · uncertainties relating to the regulation of the natural gas business in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, natural gas businesses in China, including our business. In order to comply with PRC laws limiting foreign ownership of Chinese companies, we conduct our natural gas business through Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas by means of contractual arrangements. If the government of the People’s Republic of China determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The government of the People’s Republic of China restricts foreign investment in natural gas businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas. Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate our natural gas business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas and its shareholders that allow us to substantially control Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current regulations of the People’s Republic of China, we cannot assure you that the government of the People’s Republic of China would agree that these operating arrangements comply with the People’s Republic of China’s licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the government of the People’s Republic of China determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. Our contractual arrangements with Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas and its shareholders may not be as effective in providing control over these entities as direct ownership. Since the law of the People’s Republic of China limits foreign equity ownership in natural gas companies in China, we operate our business through Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas. We have no equity ownership interest in XXNG and rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate such businesses. These contractual arrangements may not be effective in providing control over Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas as direct ownership. For example, Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas fails to perform under its agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under the law of the People’s Republic of China, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas’ shareholders would always act in our best interests. 13 Risks Related to Corporate and Stock Matters Our largest stockholder has significant influence over our management and affairs and could exercise this influence against your best interests. At March 13, 2008, Mr. Qinan Ji, our founder, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer and our largest stockholder, beneficially owned approximately 20.3% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, pursuant to our Bylaws and applicable laws and regulations, our controlling shareholder and our other executive officers and directors are able to exercise significant influence over our Company, including, but not limited to, any stockholder approvals for the election of our directors and, indirectly, the selection of our senior management, the amount of dividend payments, if any, our annual budget, increases or decreases in our share capital, new securities issuance, mergers and acquisitions and any amendments to our Bylaws. Furthermore, this concentration of ownership may delay or prevent a change of control or discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, which could decrease the market price of our shares. The limited prior public market and trading market may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. The limited trading volume in our stock may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on a limited basis on the OTCBB under the symbol, "CHNG.OB" The quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years, such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: · investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. Trading of our stock may be restricted by the SEC's penny stock regulations which may limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock if our stock trades below $5.00 per share. The SEC has adopted Rule 15g-9 which generally defines "penny stock" to be any equity security that has a market price (as defined) less than $5.00 per share or an exercise price of less than $5.00 per share, subject to certain exceptions. Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell to persons other than established customers and "accredited investors". The term "accredited investor" refers generally to institutions with assets in excess of $5,000,000 or individuals with a net worth in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 jointly with their spouse. The penny stock rules require a broker-dealer, prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the SEC which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level of risks in the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and its salesperson in the transaction and monthly account statements showing the market value of each penny stock held in the customer's account. The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in writing before or with the customer's confirmation. In addition, the penny stock rules require that prior to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable investment for the purchaser and receive the purchaser's written agreement to the transaction. These disclosure requirements may have the effect of reducing the level of trading activity in the secondary market for the stock that is subject to these penny stock rules. Consequently, these penny stock rules may affect the ability of broker-dealers to trade our securities. We believe that the penny stock rules discourage investor interest in and limit the marketability of our common stock. 14 NASD sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder's ability to buy and sell our stock. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor's account. Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be "penny stock." Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii)reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor's financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our Common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act ("Rule 144"), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a one-year holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a two-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. If we or our independent registered public accountants cannot attest our adequacy in the internal control measures over our financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2007, we may be adversely affected. As a public company, we are subject to report our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting in our annual reports on Form 10-KSB, as a requirement of Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). The report must contain an assessment by management about the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. Moreover, the independent registered public accountants of our Company must attest to and report on management's assessment of the same. Even if our management attests to our internal control measures to be effective, our independent registered public accountants may not be satisfied with our internal control structure and procedures. We cannot guarantee the outcome of the report and it could result in an adverse impact on us in the financial marketplace due to the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could negative influence to our stock market price. 15 Stockholders should have no expectation of any dividends. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by the Board of Directors out of funds available. To date, we have not declared nor paid any cash dividends. The Board of Directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the near future, but instead intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. ITEM 