Item 1A. Risk Factors. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We have incurred substantial losses in the past, and we anticipate additional future losses. Prior to the third quarter of 2008, we sustained losses and did not achieve profitability under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for any fiscal quarter or year. Although we achieved profitability in 2008 on an annual basis with net income of $0.9 million, our accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2008 was $135.7 million. We incurred net losses during 2007 and 2006 of $7.3 million and $7.8 million, respectively. We expect to incur operating losses in the first quarter of 2009 and may incur additional operating losses in the future due to a number of factors, including lower revenues and gross margins, expenses related to product development and hiring personnel for sales, marketing and research and development, and public company expenses. We have incurred and will continue to incur substantial additional costs related to being a public company that we did not incur as a private company. If our revenue and gross margins decline or fail to grow, or if we fail to manage our expenses, we may not achieve or sustain profitability in the future. As a result, our business could be harmed, and our stock price could decline. Economic conditions may adversely affect our revenue, inventory levels, gross margins and results of operations. The adverse conditions in the global economy may result in reduced spending, constrained credit, reluctance to adopt new technology, and loss of consumer and business confidence. Any of these factors could lead to decreased or delayed purchases of products containing our ICs by our customers, including our retail, service provider, commercial and utility customers. For example, although our total revenue in the fourth quarter of 2008 increased sequentially from the prior quarter, our revenue in the retail channel declined during the same period. Powerline communications is an emerging market, and, in the retail channel, the purchase of products including our ICs may involve changes to established consumer purchasing patterns. As consumers reduce discretionary spending or transition spending to discount retailers and lower cost products, demand for our products in the 15 Table of Contents retail channel could decline further. In the service provider channel, if subscriber growth or demand for new services such as IPTV or Internet-based movies-on-demand slows, end-customer turnover increases, service providers experience payment collection issues, new program rollouts are delayed or cancelled or our customers attempt to minimize their inventory levels, demand for our products from service providers could decline. Any reduction in demand for our products could adversely affect our revenue, increase our inventory levels, and result in lower selling prices and gross margins. If the economic downturn is prolonged, we may have difficulty maintaining and establishing a market for our existing and new products, and our financial performance may suffer. Further, the adverse economic conditions will make it more difficult for us to forecast customer purchases, and our revenue and financial results could become more volatile, particularly due to our customer concentration. The lack of visibility is particularly acute for indirect customers to whom we do not sell directly but who nevertheless account for a material portion of our revenue. These adverse economic conditions may also make it more difficult for our customers to operate and finance their businesses, which could result in credit losses on our accounts receivable or lead to consolidation among our customers. In addition, changes in foreign currency exchange rates that increase the effective cost of our ICs to customers whose businesses operate in other currencies could make our ICs less attractive to those customers and require us to reduce selling prices, which could have an adverse effect on our revenue, gross margins and profitability. We may also experience adverse conditions in our operating expenses and product costs due to price increases by our suppliers, inflationary trends in the economy, changes in foreign currency exchange rates that reduce the purchasing power of the U.S. dollar, increases in energy costs, and increases in salaries and benefits and general and administrative expenses, as well as other factors. These conditions may harm our gross margins and profitability if we are unable to offset these costs by, among other things, controlling our expenses or increasing our pricing. Furthermore, the economic downturn may impair the value and liquidity of our investments, which may negatively impact our ability to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new or enhanced products, respond to competitive pressures, acquire complementary businesses, technology or products, or otherwise execute our business plan. We have grown rapidly, and if we fail to sustain our growth or fail to effectively manage future growth, if any, our business will suffer. Although we commenced operations in 1989, we recently have experienced a period of significant growth and expansion. Our revenue grew to $75.4 million for 2008 from $52.3 million for 2007. In addition, our operating expenses increased to $32.3 million for 2008 from $31.5 million for 2007. In light of the current adverse conditions in the global economy, we expect our total revenue to decline sequentially in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. However, we anticipate that we will continue to expand our workforce and increase our operating expenses through internal growth as well as through potential acquisitions. If we expand our business too rapidly, and demand for our products declines at a faster rate than we anticipate, our inventory levels could be negatively impacted and our operating losses could increase. In addition, our historic growth has placed, and future growth, if any, would continue to place, a significant strain on our management, personnel, systems and financial resources. If we are unable to manage any future growth effectively, we may not be able to take advantage of market opportunities, develop new products, satisfy customer requirements, execute our business plan, or respond to competitive pressures, and our business could be harmed. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly due to a number of factors that could adversely affect our business and our stock price. Historically, our operating results have fluctuated and are likely to fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter in the future. These fluctuations are due to a number of factors, including: • the level of and fluctuations in demand for our ICs by our customers and our associated revenue; • the product mix and related gross margins of our sales; 16 Table of Contents • the timing and amount of our research and development expenditures; • delays or other problems in the introduction of our new products; • the availability and pricing of the third-party products and services, including commodities we use to manufacture, test and assemble our ICs; • the highly cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry; and • general economic conditions, including adverse conditions in the financial and credit markets. As a result, it is difficult for us to accurately forecast our revenue and results of operations on a quarterly basis, and you should not rely upon quarter-to-quarter or year-over-year comparisons to predict our future financial performance. These factors could be exacerbated by the current economic downturn and by increased competition. If we fail to meet investors’ or analysts’ expectations or if our operating results are below guidance that we may provide to the market, our stock price could decline, rapidly and without notice. We are subject to order and shipment uncertainties, and differences in our estimates of customer demand and product mix from actual results could negatively impact our inventory levels, sales and operating results. Our revenue is generated on the basis of purchase orders with our customers rather than long-term purchase commitments. We historically have not experienced significant backlog of customer orders for our ICs. In addition, our customers can cancel purchase orders or defer the shipments of our products under certain circumstances. Our products are manufactured according to our estimates of customer demand, which requires us to make separate demand forecast assumptions for every customer, each of which may introduce significant variability into our aggregate estimate. We have limited visibility into the future customer demand and product mix that our customers will require, including the extent to which our customers’ requirements may be affected by the current adverse conditions in the global economy or by new products introduced by our competitors. In the past, we have been subject to significant variations in orders from our customers with orders, including large orders, followed by periods of limited demand from such customers. Our visibility into customer demand is particularly limited for customers to whom we do not sell to directly, and some of these indirect customers account for a material portion of our revenue. Such limited visibility could adversely affect our revenue forecasts and gross margins, particularly in the event a large customer or a large number of smaller customers were to delay or cancel orders. Moreover, many of our customers have difficulty accurately forecasting their own product requirements and customer demand, as well as difficulty accurately estimating the timing of their new product and service rollouts and those of their customers (which ultimately affects their demand for our ICs). Historically, because of this limited visibility, our actual results have been different from our forecasts of customer demand, and some of these differences have been sudden and material, leading to excess inventory or product shortages and revenue and gross margin results below those forecast by us. Given our relatively fixed operating costs, adjustments to our expenditures to account for lower revenue can be difficult to implement and take time, resulting in additional operating losses. Such differences in actual results from forecasts may occur in the future, and the adverse impact of these differences could grow if we are successful in selling a much larger number of ICs to some customers. In addition, the rapid progress of innovation and competition in our industry could cause us to lose business and render significant portions of our inventory obsolete. Excess or obsolete inventory levels could result in lower selling prices, unexpected expenses or increases in our reserves that would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Conversely, if we were to underestimate customer demand or if sufficient manufacturing capacity were unavailable, we would forego revenue opportunities, potentially lose market share and damage our customer relationships. In addition, in light of the current adverse economic conditions, we believe there will be a higher risk of delays and cancellations in customer orders. In the event of material order delays and cancellations, we will experience significantly greater volatility in our revenue and earnings or losses, as applicable, and this volatility could be more pronounced than expected given our customer concentration. Any significant future cancellations or deferrals of product orders or the return of previously sold products due to manufacturing defects could materially and adversely impact our 17 Table of Contents business, revenue, inventory levels, gross margins, and operating results on a quarterly or annual basis, as well as increase our product obsolescence and restrict our ability to fund our operations. We face significant competition and may be unsuccessful against current and future competitors. The markets for ICs generally, and ICs for powerline communications in particular, are intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase and intensify as more and larger IC manufacturers enter our markets. Increased competition could result in price pressure, reduced profitability and loss of market share, any of which could materially adversely affect our business, revenue and operating results. As several technologies enable communications for high-bandwidth home networking applications, we compete with suppliers of ICs based on powerline, other wireline and wireless technologies. Our primary powerline competitors include Arkados Group Inc., Conexant Systems, Inc. and Maxim Integrated Products Inc., which build HomePlug-based ICs, and DS2 and Panasonic, which build ICs based on incompatible non-HomePlug powerline communications technologies. Because they use different technologies but share the same electrical wire, powerline communications solutions based on different standards do not interoperate and will cause interference that will prevent the systems from coexisting effectively. We also expect to have powerline competition from Gigle Semiconductor, which plans to introduce a HomePlug AV-based IC with additional proprietary features that increase bandwidth and throughput and facilitate communications over multiple types of wiring, CopperGate Communications, Ltd., which we believe will introduce a HomePlug AV-based IC, and STMicroelectronics, which in October 2008 announced an agreement with Arkados Group, Inc. to develop and manufacture a HomePlug AV-based system-on-a-chip, which is expected to interoperate with HomePlug 1.0 devices. In addition, we expect to have increased powerline competition in the future from Spidcom Technologies S.A., which recently announced a HomePlug AV-based system-on-a-chip, and Xeline Co., Ltd. We compete with most of these companies in the use of powerline communications technology over coaxial cable and telephone wiring as well as powerlines. We face competition from a large number of companies that offer other wireline and wireless communications ICs based on various technologies, including Atheros Communication Inc., Broadcom Corporation, Conexant Systems Inc., CopperGate Communications, Ltd., Entropic Communications, Inc., Intel Corporation, Marvell Technology Group Ltd., Realtek Semiconductor Corp. and Texas Instruments Incorporated. Any of these companies as well as others could also decide to offer powerline communications ICs in the future. We also face competition from companies that provide enabling technology for applications related to the management of electrical distribution systems that can be monitored remotely, known as smart grid, and the use of powerline technology to provide Internet access to homes over neighborhood powerlines, known as broadband over powerline. Our primary competitor for sales of broadband ICs for utility applications is DS2. We also face competition from systems providers and manufacturers of narrow band ICs who have developed proprietary utility communications technology including fixed wireless over private and public networks, in-home wireless, powerline, other wireline and hybrid networks that utilize wireless, powerline and/or other wireline technologies. These competitors include Cellnet Technology, Inc., Echelon Corporation, Esco Corporation, Maxim Integrated Products, Inc. and Yitran. We expect to face competition from new and emerging companies that may enter our existing or future markets and from companies that acquire, or enter into licensing arrangements or strategic alliances with, our competitors and who may have financial, sales, marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources that exceed our own. Many of our competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories, greater resources, greater name recognition, more extensive product offerings, a larger customer base, longer relationships with customers and distributors and lower wafer and supply chain costs than we do. As a result, they may be able to respond more quickly to customer requirements, devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sales of their products and influence industry standards and market acceptance of their products better than we can. Our competitors may also own or have better access to complementary technologies that can be integrated into system-on-a-chip devices that offer lower cost implementation of powerline communications. These competitors may also be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies or standards and may be able to deliver products with performance comparable or superior to that of our products at a lower cost. 18 Table of Contents If our customers do not design our products into their product offerings, or if our customers’ product offerings are delayed or are not commercially successful, our revenue and operating results will be adversely affected. Our powerline communications products are not sold directly to end-users but are used as components in the products developed and sold by others. We sell our products directly or indirectly through resellers to OEMs and service providers, which include our ICs in their products, and to ODMs, which include our ICs in the products they supply to OEMs and service providers. Our products are generally incorporated into our customers’ products in the early stages of their development after an evaluation of our and our competitors’ products. As a result, we rely on OEMs and service providers to specify our products into the products they sell, which we refer to as a “design win”. Without these design wins, we would not be able to sell our products and our business would be materially and adversely affected. We often incur significant expenditures on the development of a new product without any assurance that an OEM or service provider will specify our product into its products. Once an OEM or service provider specifies a competitor’s product into its product offering, it becomes significantly more difficult for us to sell our products to that customer because changing suppliers involves significant cost, time, effort and risk for the customer. This is especially true for applications where the IC is embedded into a personal computer or consumer electronics product. Furthermore, even if an OEM designs one of our products into its product offering, we cannot be assured that its product will be commercially successful, that we will receive any revenue from that OEM or that a successor design will include one of our products. The timing and amount of our revenue depends on the ability of the OEMs who use our ICs to develop, market, produce and ship products incorporating our technology, a process over which we have no control. If we are unable to accurately forecast the demand from these OEMs, our product mix, margins and inventory levels could be adversely affected. In addition, any decline in the sales of OEM products that use our ICs would decrease our revenue. If our customers experience delays in completing one of their products, if they are unsuccessful in commercializing a product or if they experience reductions or delays in orders from their customers, they would likely postpone or terminate their purchase of our ICs for that product, which would cause our sales to decrease. Moreover, because our IC is only one component included in the products sold by our customers, our customers must obtain the other components needed to complete their products from third parties. Some of these other components may have long lead times or be changed or discontinued, which could delay shipment or require redesign of the affected customer product, any of which would delay or reduce our revenue. If we fail to develop and introduce new and enhanced products that achieve market acceptance in a timely and cost-effective manner, our operating results and competitive position will be harmed. Our markets are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving and competing industry standards, changing customer needs and intense competition. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate and adapt to changes in technology, standards, customer demand and competing products in a timely and cost-effective manner, particularly by developing and introducing new products and product enhancements that offer increased performance and a lower total solution cost to the customer. Our product development efforts, including those for our HomePlug AV-based ICs, require substantial research and development expense. Our research and development expenses were approximately $15.9 million, $17.2 million and $10.9 million in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the future, it may be necessary for us to acquire complementary technologies, licenses and designs to create new and enhanced products and to be able to integrate our IC designs or technology into system-on-a-chip devices. We may experience unexpected delays in developing and introducing new products and product enhancements. These delays not only may adversely impact the timing of the introduction of new products and product enhancements, but they may also shift the associated product development expenses from one reporting period into another and, as a result, create unexpected differences in anticipated operating expenses. The risk of these delays and expense shifts may be exacerbated by the use of independent contractors and vendors who fail to deliver on time. If we fail to meet investors’ or analysts’ expectations regarding operating expenses, or our operating expenses exceed any guidance we may provide to the market, our stock price could be negatively impacted. In addition, our HomePlug AV-based ICs or any of our future products may not achieve market acceptance. We began shipping the first, second and third generations of our newest products, our HomePlug AV-based ICs, in the second quarter of 19 Table of Contents 2006, the second quarter of 2007 and the third quarter of 2008, respectively. If our HomePlug AV-based ICs or our other new and enhanced products do not achieve market acceptance or are not adopted at the rate we anticipate, we may not earn an acceptable return on our research and development or technology acquisition expenditures, and we may be unable to maintain or increase our revenue or achieve our margin forecasts, any of which could materially adversely affect our business and result in a decline in our stock price. The average selling price of our products will decrease over their product life cycle. If the selling price reductions are greater than we expect, or if we are unable to effectively offset average selling price erosion, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Historically, and consistent with trends in the IC industry generally, the average selling price of our products has decreased over their product life cycle. We believe that we will be required to continue to reduce the average unit prices of our powerline communications products due to a number of factors, including competitive pricing pressures and product bundling, new product introductions and the future introduction of system-on-a-chip devices that include powerline communications and other technologies. Moreover, if the cost of our ICs increases the retail cost of our customer’s product to an unacceptable level, the customer will not add a powerline communications solution to the product, regardless of whether our ICs are priced competitively. In products where powerline communications is the second or third communications technology (for example, after Ethernet and wireless capabilities), we face particularly strong pricing pressure with respect to our products. A reduction in the average selling price to one of our customers could force us to lower our average selling price to other customers, both as a result of competitive factors and as a result of most favored nation pricing commitments to certain customers. If we are unable to offset any reductions in our average selling prices with increased sales volumes or reduced production costs or if we are unable to manage our inventory to reduce the impact of such price declines, our results of operations would be harmed. Changes to the mix of products we sell may have a significant impact on our financial results. As we sell several ICs with differing functionality, prices and costs, the mix and types of our ICs sold to customers affect the average selling price and average cost of our products and can substantially impact our revenue and gross margins. Our gross margins may vary from quarter-to-quarter for a number of reasons, including market conditions, customer demand, changes in our customer base, product mix and our sales volume, average selling price, and cost for each product sold. To the extent that our sales mix results in a decline in our gross margins, our ability to recover our fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product and our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. Changes to current or future laws and regulations, or the imposition of new laws and regulations, by federal, state, local and foreign governments and government agencies in the markets where the products using our ICs are sold could restrict or eliminate our ability to sell our products or otherwise harm our business. Devices such as our customers’ products containing our ICs for powerline communications are subject to various U.S. and foreign governmental regulations, including, for example, regulations regarding transmission power, permissible frequencies of operation, electromagnetic interference and electrical wiring. These regulations and the interpretation and enforcement of the regulations may vary from country-to-country and are subject to change. For example, in the U.S., rules governing power limits and measuring techniques for broadband over powerline devices have been adopted by the FCC. “Access” broadband over powerline rules govern systems installed and operated by an electric utility on the supply side of the customer’s premises. “In-house” broadband over powerline rules govern that portion of a broadband over powerline system that operates on customer premise lines not owned by the utility. In April 2008, after the access broadband over powerline rules were appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, the Court remanded the rules to the FCC. The Court ordered the FCC, in part, to provide justification for its choice of extrapolation factor for access broadband over powerline, or in the alternative, to adopt another factor, which could require broadband over powerline devices to reduce output power levels. If, in response to this ruling or otherwise, the 20 Table of Contents FCC were to amend the rules applicable to products using our ICs for smart grid and access broadband over powerline applications, our business could be harmed and, if the application of the ruling and any resulting rule changes were to be extended to products using our ICs for in-home powerline communications, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In most countries outside of the U.S., regulations governing powerline communications devices are generally based upon standards adopted by IEC/CISPR. Based on information provided in part by our customers, we believe that the majority of the ICs we sell are ultimately used in devices that are sold in countries that base their regulations on standards adopted by IEC/CISPR. The IEC/CISPR rules and test procedures on powerline communications are currently in a state of flux. A CISPR project to address the subject of powerline communications standards for both access and in-house broadband over powerline is expected to take several years to complete, and there is no guarantee that favorable IEC/CISPR standards will eventually be adopted. Powerline communications regulations are based upon specific country requirements in the absence of adoption of IEC/CISPR or other international standards. In some countries, including Japan, the regulations limit use of powerline communications to in-home devices, thereby prohibiting use of broadband over the power grid, and require in-home transmission power levels that are below those permitted in the U.S. Other countries may require that certain frequency bands, such as those used for search and rescue, be filtered out of the spectrum being used for powerline communications, which reduces throughput. A change, including a rapid change, in the existing regulations, the adoption of new regulations or a change in the interpretation or testing methods used to demonstrate compliance with the regulations could prevent products using our ICs from being used in the applicable country, could reduce the performance of such products below customer requirements, or could require us to redesign our ICs or require our customers to redesign their products to comply with the new regulatory requirements. Such actions could also require the use of products already sold into the marketplace to be terminated. Although some of our HomePlug-based ICs have limited capabilities to filter additional frequencies to meet specific country requirements, our other ICs do not have this flexibility and even those that do may not be able to meet future regulatory requirements or may perform below customer requirements if substantial portions of the available spectrum are required to be filtered. Any regulatory reduction in the available frequencies or the available transmit power of our ICs will reduce the performance of our ICs and, depending on the amount of the reduction and the intended use of the IC, could cause the IC to fail to meet customer requirements. If we were required to redesign an IC to meet new regulatory filtering, transmit power or other requirements, we would be required to incur substantial time and expense and there is no assurance that we would be able to make changes to our IC or introduce a new IC that would result in a product that would meet regulatory or customer requirements by the time necessary for compliance, if at all. The products containing our ICs may also be subject to regulations specifying the maximum amount of electric current that the product may use when in operation, in standby mode or not in use. These provisions, which are intended to promote power conservation, are sometimes referred to as “code of conduct” regulations. Governmental interest in promulgating these regulations appears to be increasing, particularly in Europe, which is our largest geographic market. If our ICs do not allow a product manufacturer to meet applicable code of conduct regulations for a product, the manufacturer will not use our ICs in the product. If our competitors offer ICs with lower power consumption, this may give them a competitive advantage. If we were required to redesign an IC to meet new code of conduct or other power consumption requirements, we would be required to incur substantial time and expense and there is no assurance that we would be able to make changes to our IC, or introduce a new IC, that would result in a product that would meet regulatory or customer requirements by the time necessary for compliance, if at all. Even if our ICs are competitive in terms of power consumption, the time required for a manufacturer to comply with new code of conduct requirements applicable to the manufacturer’s product could delay deployment of the product and, accordingly, the manufacturer’s purchase of our ICs. 21 Table of Contents We depend upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of, or significant delay, reduction, or cancellation in sales to, any one of these customers could adversely affect our operations and financial condition. We have derived a significant portion of our revenue from a small number of OEM, ODM and distributor customers, and we expect such customer concentration to continue for the foreseeable future. In 2008, Free, a service provider; devolo AG, an OEM; and Lumax International Corporation, a distributor, accounted for approximately 21%, 19%, and 10% of total revenue, respectively. In general, we are not able to track the amount of our product sold by our OEM, ODM and distributor customers to their ultimate end-use customers. We are also less able to accurately forecast our revenues for such indirect customers, and their revenues are subject to greater uncertainty and therefore greater volatility. In addition, we are also exposed to certain customer concentration risk for our indirect customers. For example, we believe that several of our ODM customers produce products using our ICs for EchoStar Corporation (EchoStar). We estimate that these purchases through EchoStar’s various ODMs would have accounted for approximately 18%, 11% and 12% of our revenue in the aggregate for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our aggregate customer concentration may increase in future periods if we are successful in adding new customers who buy our ICs in substantially higher volumes than our existing customers. In addition, the percentage of revenue accounted for by one or more of our customers may increase if our total revenue declines, as we anticipate in the first quarter of 2009. As a result, the loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any delay or cancellation of orders they have made with us, any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them, or any return of products previously sold to them due to manufacturing defects could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to maintain, increase or accurately forecast sales of our products to these customers for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to, the following: • our customers typically purchase from us based on a purchase order rather than an agreement that requires them to purchase minimum quantities of our products; • our customers can stop incorporating our products into their own products with limited notice to us and with little or no penalty; • our customers and our customers’ customers may be unable to forecast the demand for their products; • our customers and our customers’ customers may experience delays in rolling out new products and services that use our ICs; • our customers may use our competitors’ products instead of ours; • our customers may be unsuccessful in selling the products that use our ICs; • we may be unsuccessful in providing the ICs or customer enablement support that our customers require to meet their volume targets; or • we may be unable to develop new products or product enhancements that are desirable to our customers at competitive prices and on the schedule they require. HomePlug powerline communications solutions for our digital home, utility and commercial markets may not gain widespread acceptance, which could materially adversely affect our business. During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, approximately 96%, 94% and 85% of our revenue, respectively, was derived from the sale of HomePlug-based ICs primarily used in retail and service provider-specified applications for home connectivity, which is the sharing and moving of content among personal computers and other consumer electronics products in the home. The home connectivity market is currently dominated by wired Ethernet and wireless local area networks, or Wi-Fi LAN, technologies. The powerline communications and networking market is relatively new and lacks broad consumer market awareness and acceptance. Powerline communications generally, and the HomePlug standards in particular, face competition from other wireline communications technologies as well as Ethernet and wireless technologies. Among the competing technologies, including coaxial cable, Ethernet, phone line, wireless and non-HomePlug 22 Table of Contents powerline, many are actively supported by larger companies and by various industry alliances, and some offer features that HomePlug powerline communications products cannot provide. Some of these competing communications technologies have a longer history of availability and stronger industry alliance support and have become integrated within products offered by service providers and technology leaders in the personal computer and consumer electronics markets, and therefore have gained greater market acceptance and have the benefit of higher economies of scale associated with larger product volumes. Leading semiconductor companies continue to invest heavily in promoting and improving wireless technologies. To help advance the establishment of the HomePlug standards and accelerate the growth and adoption of our HomePlug-based products, we endeavor to develop formal and informal relationships with technology leaders in the personal computer, consumer electronics and service provider markets. If we are unable to establish and maintain these relationships and these technology leaders fail to promote the advantages of the HomePlug standards and our HomePlug-based ICs, or if competing technologies such as wireless, coaxial cable or non-HomePlug powerline, provide better performance at a more competitive price than we can offer, our solutions could fail to achieve widespread market adoption. If HomePlug powerline communications technology does not achieve widespread market acceptance in the digital home, utility or commercial markets, there may be less demand or no demand for some of our products, causing our business to suffer and our stock price to decline. Our business is highly dependent on the expansion of new and rapidly evolving segments of the consumer electronics and service provider markets and our ability to have our ICs embedded into products in these markets. Our business could be harmed if this expansion does not continue or if our products fail to gain market acceptance in embedded applications. We derive a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of our ICs for use in adapters that enable communication across existing powerlines in the home. We are working to increase the portion of our revenue that is derived from selling ICs that are embedded into consumer electronics and service provider products, such as broadband gateways, internet protocol and other video set-top boxes, digital media adapters (DMAs), and televisions, among others. Our ability to sustain and increase revenue is in large part dependent on the continued growth of these new and rapidly evolving markets and on our ability to have our ICs embedded into products in these markets. Many factors could slow or prevent the expansion of these markets, including general economic conditions, other competing technologies and products, uncertainty about industry standards and insufficient interest in new technology innovations. In addition, even if these markets expand, manufacturers of products in these markets may not choose to embed our ICs in their own products, but rather may adopt communications solutions from our competitors, develop their own, or delay embedding pending the release of new communications products or standards. Moreover, market acceptance of the products of manufacturers that do embed our ICs may not occur at all or as quickly as expected. In any such case, our business could be materially and adversely affected. Powerline technology is subject to significant technical challenges that may make it difficult for us to meet future market requirements. The use of existing electrical wiring as a method for reliable communications is technically challenging. Powerlines are subject to interference, or noise, and the amount and type of noise varies significantly. Simple household products, such as cell phone chargers, power supplies, halogen lights, compact florescent lights and hair dryers, can all create noise that can have a serious adverse effect on the quality of powerline communications. The operation of other large electrical devices such as refrigerators and air conditioning units can also have an adverse effect. Powerline communications are also subject to signal reduction, or attenuation, based on the length of the wiring paths and the presence of other devices including arc fault circuit interrupters (AFCIs) and surge protectors. The U.S. National Electrical Code requires AFCIs for newly installed bedroom outlets and, in the future, may require AFCIs for all newly installed outlets. AFCIs from certain manufacturers may cause attenuation. In addition, attenuation may be caused by surge protectors which block the communications signal from a powerline adapter or other product that is plugged into the surge protector. The instructions to HomePlug-enabled products generally instruct customers to plug the devices into surge protectors designed to pass the HomePlug signal or directly into electrical outlets (as most HomePlug-based adapters and 23 Table of Contents other product designs include surge protection circuitry). However, end users may experience unacceptable results if they fail to follow these instructions. The degree to which household products and devices such as AFCIs and surge protectors adversely impact the performance of our products depends on a large number of factors, including the number and combination of devices creating noise or attenuation in a home, the timing, spectrum and extent of the noise and the throughput required for the specific powerline connectivity application. Although the HomePlug technologies provide solutions to many of these challenges, powerline remains a more difficult medium than competing technologies such as Ethernet and coaxial cable LANs. As a result, powerline communications may be unable to provide the reliable data transmission capacity, or throughput, required by some customers and may be an ineffective connectivity solution in some environments. These technical challenges may also make it more difficult to achieve further performance improvements in powerline communications compared to other wireline communications technologies, which may put powerline communications technologies at a disadvantage as customer bandwidth requirements and interest in anywire communications technologies continue to grow. Furthermore, unlike other communications such as Wi-Fi and some coaxial cable LANs, which offer multiple channels, powerline technology to date has generally been limited to a single channel, making it difficult to increase throughput by adding additional channels. The lack of multiple channels presents challenges in MDU environments, as the powerline signal from one apartment may bleed into an adjacent apartment. Although security routines may prevent any misuse of content between the units, the total transmission capacity, or bandwidth, must be shared on some basis. As the use of powerline communications increases, the potential need for sharing will become greater. The technical solutions for this sharing have not been fully resolved. Even if the technical requirements for sharing are developed, the shared bandwidth available to each unit could reduce performance to unacceptable levels. The lack of multiple channels also creates challenges when incompatible powerline technologies are used in the same home or in MDUs or other environments where the respective incompatible products can interfere with each other. When this occurs, all of the incompatible powerline communications products may be unable to provide a satisfactory consumer experience. We may be required to apply significant human and financial resources to evaluate and address these technical challenges. These efforts and expenditures could be substantial with no certainty that we would be able to develop a solution. If we are unsuccessful, our ability to maintain or attract new customers may be adversely affected and our ability to grow our business may be harmed. Also, concerns about the uncertain and adverse effects of incompatible powerline communications products may persuade service providers, utilities and personal computer and consumer electronics manufacturers not to adopt powerline communications or embed powerline communications ICs into their products. HomePlug-based ICs do not coexist effectively with powerline communications ICs based on other standards, such as those made by DS2 and Panasonic. If a major service provider, utility or other major customer were to adopt a powerline or anywire communications technology that cannot coexist with our HomePlug-based ICs, we could face difficulties selling our ICs in the applicable markets. As we rely on a limited number of third parties to manufacture, assemble and test our IC products and to supply required parts and materials, we are exposed to significant supplier risks. As a fabless semiconductor company, we do not maintain our own manufacturing, assembly or testing facilities. Instead, we rely on a limited number of third-party vendors to manufacture, assemble and test the products we design. In recent years, we have historically used a single wafer foundry to manufacture our HomePlug-based wafers. However, during the second half of 2008, we began using a second wafer foundry to manufacture the wafers for two of our HomePlug-based ICs. We also use this second wafer foundry to manufacture wafers for our command and control ICs. However, we still use only one foundry for each of our ICs except our HomePlug 1.0 with Turbo IC. We also use only a limited number of principal subcontractors for the assembly and testing of our ICs. In addition, our third-party vendors that test our products often utilize third-party test equipment. As we rely on these vendors and their use of third-party test equipment, we have less control over quality assurance, delivery schedules and costs, which could result in product shortages and 24 Table of Contents increased costs. The production of our ICs for powerline communications requires a wide range of parts and materials, which our foundry suppliers currently procure from domestic and foreign sources. In some cases, we rely on a sole source for certain components, including the third-party analog front-end devices used in some of our HomePlug AV-based products. If any of our third-party vendors ceases to do business, fails to provide us in a timely manner with the products and services we request, fails to meet the standards we require or terminates its relationship with us, we may be unable to obtain replacement services to fill customer orders in a timely manner, if at all, and our relationships with our customers and our sales could suffer. As we do not have long-term supply contracts with our third-party vendors, they are not obligated to provide the products and services we request for any specified period, in any specific quantities or at any specific price, except as provided in each purchase order we submit. As a result, our third-party vendors have the right to increase the prices we pay for our ICs or to allocate their resources to other customers’ projects and reduce efforts for our products on short notice, exposing us to risks of late deliveries, poor quality and inadequate supply. If our third-party vendors enter into long-term agreements with other customers, these vendors may decrease their services to us on a more permanent scale. Our supplier risk is also significant due to the general cyclicality of the semiconductor industry, the adverse effect of the current economic downturn on the financial stability of our suppliers, decisions during recent years by some large technology companies to outsource more of their IC production to third party foundries and the substantial time and capital investment required to construct new foundry facilities to meet increased demand. If demand for ICs increases or available capacity declines, our suppliers could allocate resources to larger customers and we could face shortages, longer delivery cycles and higher prices from our suppliers. In order to secure specified pricing or sufficient supply to meet our customers’ demands, we may enter into various arrangements with vendors that could be costly and harm our operating results, including, for example, entering into agreements that commit us to purchase minimum quantities of components over extended periods. Regardless of the reason, if we are unable to secure sufficient supply, it may be difficult for us to develop relationships with other third-party vendors who are able to satisfy our production and supply requirements, and it can take several months to qualify a new services provider. Changes in providers may also require the affected ICs to go through re-qualification testing and customer approvals, adding further delay and costs and the potential for our customers to cancel orders or fail to place new orders. In addition, because many of the design libraries used in the design of an IC may be specific to a particular wafer foundry or foundry process, the change from one foundry or foundry vendor to another may require us to redesign all or part of the affected IC, which could take approximately 6 to 15 months, and to incur the costs of new IC masks, which can be substantial, particularly for lower process geometries. Furthermore, if we are unable to obtain the parts and materials necessary for our operations in a timely manner and on favorable terms, or, if we are unable to pass on to our customers any increased costs charged by our suppliers, our business and financial results may be adversely affected. Furthermore, not all of our vendors provide us with indemnification regarding our product purchases. Other vendors impose limits on their indemnification obligations. If such products infringe the intellectual property rights of a third party either alone or in combination, or if we are found to owe license fees or royalties relating to these products, our margins and operating results would be severely negatively impacted. The development of new industry standards may cause our products to become uncompetitive or obsolete and force us to incur substantial development costs and time to bring new products to market. Although most of the transceiver ICs we sell are based upon the HomePlug 1.0 and HomePlug AV specifications adopted by the HomePlug Powerline Alliance, the HomePlug Powerline Alliance could adopt changes to these specifications or adopt new or additional specifications that would require us to make changes to our ICs or to create new ICs in order to comply with the new specifications. More than 70 companies are members of the HomePlug Powerline Alliance, including some of our competitors that have developed or may in the future develop technology competitive to ours that could be included in future HomePlug specifications. In 25 Table of Contents addition, other industry associations formed to promote powerline communications, such as the Universal Powerline Association (UPA), the HD-PLC Alliance and the Consumer Electronics Powerline Communication Alliance (CEPCA), have already established their own specifications for powerline communications or the coexistence among powerline communications products, and these specifications conflict with the specifications adopted by the HomePlug Powerline Alliance. Other groups that have more international recognition as independent standards development organizations, such as the IEEE and the ITU, are working on the adoption of powerline and anywire wireline communications standards that may be different from and incompatible with the specifications adopted by the HomePlug Powerline Alliance and used by our products. For example, in December 2008, the IEEE P1901 standards work group on powerline communications confirmed joint proposals from HomePlug and Panasonic as the baseline technology for the in-home and access P1901 powerline standards. The joint proposals provide for the flexibility to support either the HomePlug AV or the Panasonic physical layer, as well as a possible future generation physical layer that would be compatible with a future ITU G.hn anywire standard. Under this approach, future ICs based on the joint proposals would use either one or the other physical layers and would interoperate with other future products using the same physical layer as well as with existing products based on the same physical layer. Future products using different physical layers would coexist but not interoperate. Although we believe that our HomePlug AV ICs would interoperate with the HomePlug physical layer version of the P1901 baseline, we are unable to predict whether or when the baseline will be ratified by the IEEE or, if it is, the degree to which the final specification, or subsequent changes to the specification, will require us to make changes to our existing ICs or to IC designs we have in progress. Also in December 2008, the ITU G.hn work group moved most of the physical layer components for the proposed G.hn anywire communications standard to what is called the “consent” stage, which will be followed by efforts at comment resolution as well as work on the media access control layer in 2009. We do not believe that our HomePlug AV ICs would interoperate or coexist with the G.hn physical layer that moved to consent. We are unable to predict whether or when a G.hn standard will be ratified by the ITU or, if it is, the degree to which the final specification, or subsequent changes to the specification, will require us to make changes to our existing ICs or to IC designs we have in progress. Standards organizations sometimes take years to reach agreement on new final specifications and may be unable to do so, even when a baseline technology for a proposed specification is selected early in the adoption process. The adoption or expected adoption of new or different powerline or anywire communications standards by the HomePlug Powerline Alliance, or more established global standards development organizations such as the IEEE or the ITU, or industry alliances such as the HomeGrid Forum supporting the activities of such organizations, could make our products incompatible with the new standard or otherwise uncompetitive or obsolete and cause us to incur substantial development costs to adapt to new or alternative industry standards, particularly if the new or alternative standards were to receive, or be perceived as likely to receive, greater penetration in the marketplace than the HomePlug-based specifications used by us for our ICs. Moreover, the adoption or expected adoption of such standards could have a chilling effect on the sale of existing products even before products based on the new standard become available. The time and expense required for us to develop new products or change our existing products to comply with new industry standards would be substantial, and there is no assurance that we would be successful in doing so. If we were not successful in complying with the industry standards required by our customers, we could lose market share, causing our business to suffer. The adoption of new powerline or anywire standards by standards development organizations such as the IEEE or the ITU may increase competition in the market for powerline and other wireline communications ICs by reducing or eliminating the uncertain market acceptance of various competing standards established by industry alliance groups such as HomePlug, the UPA and the HD-PLC Alliance, potentially attracting larger semiconductor companies to join the market. Our use of standards-based technology reduces the value of our intellectual property and exposes us to additional competition. As we believe that some of our customers and potential customers prefer to use powerline communications ICs that are based on industry standards rather than proprietary technologies, we have in the past elected, and 26 Table of Contents may in the future elect, to base our powerline transceiver ICs on specifications approved by standards bodies or industry alliances and to have our intellectual property included in these specifications. The applicable standards bodies and alliances, including the HomePlug Powerline Alliance, typically require that participating companies license their necessary patent claims on non-exclusive, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms to other members, including competitors, who elect to produce products compliant with the applicable standard. For example, as a contributor member of the HomePlug Powerline Alliance, we are obligated to license our necessary patent claims on non-exclusive, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms to other HomePlug Powerline Alliance members, including competitors, who elect to produce products compliant with the HomePlug 1.0 and HomePlug AV specifications, as well as any future HomePlug specifications, to the extent that the necessary claims are needed to allow compatibility of a product based on the future specification to HomePlug 1.0 or HomePlug AV. We have similar obligations with respect to the necessary claims relating to our command and control ICs. If we are successful in having our intellectual property included in additional industry standards, the scope of these licensing obligations could increase. These obligations to license our necessary patent claims may allow our competitors to use our patents to develop and sell products that compete with our products without spending the time and expense that we incurred to develop the technology covered by the patents, thereby potentially reducing any time to market advantage we might have as a result of these patents. These obligations also substantially restrict and may eliminate our ability to use our patents as a barrier to entry or as a significant source of revenue. Moreover, because the specifications for these industry standards are generally available to members of the applicable standards bodies and alliances for little or no cost, competitors can more easily create ICs that compete with our products. We have limited experience in applying our powerline communications technology to other media, such as coaxial cable and telephone wiring, and if we are unsuccessful in our efforts to do so, our business could be harmed. Although some service providers are using our powerline ICs for communications over coaxial cable and telephone wiring, we intend to continue to evaluate whether we can successfully extend the use of our powerline communications technology and ICs to these other media. We do not currently derive a significant portion of our revenue from these applications. In addition, because of interest from customers and standards organizations in single solutions that can enable communications over multiple wired media, including powerline, coaxial cable and telephone wiring, sometimes referred to as anywire technology, we expect that our future product roadmap will need to include ICs with enhanced anywire capabilities. We have far less experience with these other media than we have with powerline communications. As a result, we may be unable to gain, or may need to incur significant costs in order to obtain, the necessary experience and expertise required to apply our powerline communications technology to these other media or to develop and obtain other wireline communications technology and intellectual property. In pursuing this business, we will be competing with companies that have substantially greater experience with, and technologies specifically designed to optimize communications over, these other media. In addition, some applications of our products on these other media may interfere with other technologies that use the same wires, such as Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification (DOCSIS) or Very High Speed Digital Subscriber Line (VDSL) protocols, potentially making commercialization of these applications impractical. The sales cycle for our products is long and requires expenditures and the development of new products in advance of sales that may or may not be realized when anticipated, if at all. Our customers generally take a considerable amount of time to evaluate our HomePlug-based ICs before purchasing. The typical time from early engagement by our sales force to actual product introduction typically runs 6 to 12 months for adapter products to as much as 12 to 30 months for embedded consumer electronics products and products used by service providers and electric utilities. The delays inherent in these lengthy sales cycles increase the risk that a customer will decide to cancel, curtail, reduce or delay its product plans, causing us to lose or delay anticipated sales. Additionally, while our sales cycles can be long, our average product life cycles tend to be short because we operate in a rapidly changing technology environment. As a result, the resources devoted to product sales and marketing may not generate material revenue for us when expected, if at all, and 27 Table of Contents from time-to-time, we may need to write-off excess and obsolete inventory. In addition, we typically are required to incur substantial development costs in advance of a prospective sale with no certainty that we will recover such costs. A substantial amount of time may pass between the selection of our technology for use in a customer’s product and the generation of revenue related to the expenses previously incurred, which can potentially cause our operating results to fluctuate significantly from period to period. In addition, if we do not generate revenue after we have incurred substantial expenses to develop any of our products, our business will suffer. We derive a portion of our revenue from sales of our ICs to customers in the commercial and utility markets, and our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to maintain or grow our sales in these markets. While we only derived a limited portion of our revenue from sales of our ICs to customers in the commercial and utility markets in 2008, we expect to continue to strive to achieve sales of our ICs to customers in these markets. Customers in the commercial market use our ICs to enable distribution of broadband services and back channel communications over existing electrical wiring and coaxial cable to individual units within apartment buildings and other MDUs. Customers in the utility market use our ICs in smart grid and broadband over powerline applications. Although service providers in the commercial market and electric utilities in the utility market are conducting field trials and limited deployments of these applications, the number of volume commercial deployments is low. Our ability to maintain and increase revenue in the commercial and utility markets depends upon both the growth of these markets and our competitive position within such markets. We have fewer strategic and customer relationships in these markets and, in some cases, different competitors than we have in the digital home market. The growth of the commercial market will depend, in part, on the expansion of Internet, video-on-demand and other broadband services to MDUs. In the utility market, the growth of smart grid management and broadband over powerline applications will depend upon a number of factors, including a favorable utility regulatory environment that allows the cost of smart grid systems to be funded by the utility’s rate base and the development of new third-party products and services, as well as business models, necessary to commercialize these applications. In recent periods, customer interest in broadband over powerline applications has declined due to concerns about the financial and operational success of such systems. In addition, the sales cycle for commercial and utility customers is typically long. If demand for these applications does not grow or we are unable to increase our revenue within these markets, our business could be materially and adversely affected. We may also need to make changes to our existing products or develop new products for our commercial and utility business to be successful. For example, at present we do not offer less expensive narrow band or command and control ICs that may be required for some applications. Furthermore, the HomePlug Powerline Alliance is working on a proposed broadband over powerline specification that uses HomePlug AV as the baseline technology with a number of enhancements to better meet smart grid and broadband over powerline requirements. The IEEE is also working on an access powerline standard as part of its P1901 initiative. We have not determined whether we will create any products based on these specifications, and there is no assurance that, if we were to attempt to do so, any such products would be successful. If we are unsuccessful in tailoring our existing products or creating new products to meet the needs of our customers in the commercial and utility markets, we will be unable to grow or maintain our sales in these markets. Our ability to compete may be affected by our ability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information. We believe that the protection of our intellectual property rights, both domestic and foreign, is and will continue to be important to the success of our business. To protect our proprietary technologies and processes, we rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other methods. We currently have 32 issued U.S. patents and 42 pending U.S. patents, with foreign counterparts in some jurisdictions. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and expensive. We cannot be certain that any currently pending or future applications will actually result in issued patents, and 28 Table of Contents our existing and future patents may be challenged. The rights granted under any issued patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or provide us with a competitive advantage, and our competitors may be able to develop similar or superior technology to our own now or in the future. Any future infringement upon our intellectual property or proprietary information may require us to engage in litigation in the future. Such litigation could result in significant costs to us and the distraction of our management. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and proprietary information, some of our innovations may not be protectable. Some countries may limit or deny protection of our patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets. In addition, the steps that we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights may not be adequate to preclude misappropriation or infringement of our intellectual property rights. If our patents do not adequately protect our technology, our competitors may be able to offer similar products and may also be able to develop similar technology, designed around our patents. In addition, it is possible that third parties may copy or obtain and use our proprietary information without our authorization, and no adequate remedies may be available. The ability of our competitors to access and use our proprietary information may inhibit our ability to compete. Claims that we have infringed upon third-party intellectual property rights could subject us to significant liability and could invalidate our intellectual property rights. Participants in the IC industry vigorously protect and pursue their intellectual property rights. We have in the past received, and expect that in the future we may receive, communications from various industry participants alleging our infringement of their patents or other intellectual property. With respect to past claims we completed investigating, we concluded and, in each case, replied to such third parties that we believed their claims were without merit, and we received no further claims or notices of infringement from such third parties. From time to time, we also identify third party intellectual property that could result in claims of infringement even though we have not received any notice of infringement or we believe that we are not infringing or that the intellectual property involves claims that are invalid. In those situations, we may seek to obtain licenses from the owners of such intellectual property to reduce the risks, costs and management diversion from litigation with a third party that may otherwise seek to assert a claim against us. We are currently seeking a non-exclusive cross license from a third party for certain intellectual property rights used in our HomePlug family of products. We believe this third party is contractually obligated to license such intellectual property rights to us pursuant to a membership agreement with the HomePlug Powerline Alliance. This cross license would also provide such third party a limited non-exclusive license to certain of our patents which are used in a product currently marketed by such third party. We may not be able to obtain licenses to such intellectual property on reasonable terms, if at all. Any litigation relating to the intellectual property rights of third parties, including claims arising through our contractual indemnification of our customers, would be costly and could divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, regardless of the merit of such claims. Given the complex technical issues and uncertainties inherent in intellectual property litigation, we cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such suit. In the event of an adverse ruling in any such litigation, we could be required to: • pay substantial damages; • cease the manufacture, use or sale of infringing products, processes or technologies; • expend significant resources to develop non-infringing technology; or • license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our business also could be harmed if our customers become involved in litigation regarding infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which adversely affects their ability to sell their products incorporating our ICs and their demand for our ICs. In addition, under the standard terms and conditions of our customer purchase orders, we are required to defend, at our expense, certain third-party intellectual property infringement suits against our customers who purchase our ICs subject to such terms and conditions. We are also required to pay any damages that are awarded. The defense and settlement of such suits would increase our costs, could require us to pay substantial damages and could hurt our relationships with our customers, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 29 Table of Contents We must integrate third-party technology into some of our products, which exposes us to risks of incompatibility, additional product defects and the risk that this third-party technology would no longer be supported or made available to us. We rely extensively on third-party technology that is integrated into some of our products, including third-party intellectual property that we license to meet the HomePlug specifications. Due to the complexity of our products, the incorporation of third-party technology could result in unforeseen or undetected defects or bugs, which could adversely affect the market acceptance of new products and damage our reputation with customers. We have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, reliability, quality or compatibility problems because of the use of third-party technology. As a result, we may have to expend significant financial and other resources to correct these problems, including the costs of repair, rework, recall, replacement and resolving claims by our customers or third parties. Due to our reliance on third-party technology, if we were unable to continue to use or license these third-party technologies on reasonable and cost-effective terms or if the third-party technology were to fail to operate as required, we could be unable to secure alternatives in a timely manner, if at all, and our business would be harmed. In addition, if we were unable to license technology from third parties to develop future products, we would be unable to develop such products in a timely manner, or at all. In order to broaden the market acceptance of our products, we have entered into, and in the future we may enter into, licensing and joint venture arrangements, which may require us to incur substantial development costs, result in reduced product revenue, lower gross margins on our products and tie the success of our products to the success of our collaborators in marketing their products. Pricing pressures and business strategies may lead us to seek to enter into licensing or joint venture arrangements designed to increase the penetration of our HomePlug-based powerline communications solutions into high-volume applications, particularly price-sensitive products, such as personal computers, home gateways or routers, that we believe would expand the market for our ICs in other products. For example, in June 2005, we entered into a technology collaboration and license agreement with Intel Corporation that provides, among other things, for most favored pricing and supply terms for our HomePlug AV-based products and for an option to license from us a HomePlug AV-based IC design and, if we either then have or own (or then have commenced or later commence work on), a related analog front-end IC design, for use in Intel microprocessors, chipsets and platforms at Intel’s sole discretion on a worldwide basis, either royalty-free or royalty-bearing, depending on product application. The license option is only exercisable under certain circumstances and does not permit Intel to use the designs licensed in an IC product having communications over powerlines and/or coaxial cable as its primary purpose or communications over wireless and over powerlines and/or coaxial cable as its primary purpose. Further, Intel may not distribute Intel products incorporating the licensed HomePlug AV design until Intel or Intel customers using certain Intel personal computer reference designs first purchase from us a certain volume of our HomePlug AV-based ICs. There is no assurance that Intel will exercise its option. Even if Intel exercises its option, it may not be able to successfully market and sell products incorporating our designs, and accordingly, our license of our designs to Intel may not expand the market for our ICs in other products. The agreement expires in June 2010, but can be renewed upon the mutual consent of the parties. Either party may terminate the agreement upon default and failure to cure by the other party, and in the event of such termination, the non-defaulting party may revoke the grant of license rights to the defaulting party. Our licensing and joint venture arrangements could include licensing our HomePlug-based designs for use in third-party system-on-a-chip solutions that include other communications, interface or home gateway technologies. The royalty income, if any, we would derive from these arrangements would be substantially less than our expected dollar value of gross profits from the sale of an equivalent volume of ICs, and there is no assurance that we would derive enough revenue from the sale of our ICs for use in other products to make the licensing arrangement successful from the standpoint of our overall business. These third-party arrangements may require us to grant certain important rights to third parties, including exclusive rights to one or more of our IC designs and issuance of warrants or other securities. In addition, we have entered into, and from time to time in the future may be required to enter into, licenses and covenants that could limit our ability to initiate patent infringement actions against third parties, including third-party collaborators, their customers, distributors, agents 30 Table of Contents and contractors. Packaging our designs for use in these arrangements would require us to incur substantial development costs with no certainty we would recover these costs. Implementing the arrangements would also involve substantial risks that we have not faced before, including converting our design for use in the system-on-a-chip device and being reliant on our third-party partner for the integration, production, marketing and sale of the resulting product. There is no assurance that we would be successful in entering into or implementing any such arrangement. Failure of our third-party suppliers to achieve satisfactory product yields, reliability and quality will increase our costs and negatively impact our relationships with our customers. The process of producing ICs, referred to as the wafer fabrication process, is extremely complicated, where even small changes in design, materials or specifications can result in material decreases in the percentage of acceptable product resulting from the manufacturing process, referred to as the manufacturing yield, and even the suspension of production. On occasion, we and our third-party vendors have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, manufacturing defects and resultant reductions in manufacturing yields due to errors in the foundries’ manufacturing processes or the implementation of our designs, particularly when manufacturing new products and in connection with the installation and introduction of new technologies. Detection of defects is difficult, and identifying problems may not be possible early in the fabrication process. Failure to detect defects may negatively impact the quality or reliability of our products, and low manufacturing yields may inhibit our ability to fulfill customer orders on a timely basis and may increase our cost of goods sold and negatively impact our operating results. We may experience difficulties in transitioning to smaller geometry process technologies or in achieving higher levels of design integration, which may result in reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries, increased expenses and loss of design wins and sales. We periodically evaluate the anticipated benefits, risks and expenses of migrating one or more of our IC designs and manufacturing to smaller geometry process technologies in an effort to reduce our product costs. Any such transition would require us to redesign the applicable product and require us and our foundry suppliers to use new or modified manufacturing processes for the product. We also evaluate whether we can use smaller geometry processes in our new ICs. Historically, the smallest geometry process we used for any of our ICs was 90 nanometer, but we recently began shipping a HomePlug AV-based IC which is based on a 65 nanometer process. We are dependent on our relationships with our foundry subcontractors to transition to smaller geometry processes successfully. The foundries that we use may not have the tools, design libraries or manufacturing facilities required to use the smaller geometries we want to use, may be unable to produce the smaller geometry ICs with the yields we need to be successful or may be unwilling to make the smaller geometries available to us on a timely or cost-effective basis. The yield risks associated with smaller geometry ICs are generally much higher than those with higher geometry processes. As we try to move to smaller geometry processes, we may be unable to maintain our existing foundry relationships, which could adversely affect the availability and cost of the existing products we buy from them, or develop new ones. If any of our foundry suppliers cannot meet our requirements or we experience significant delays in this transition or fail to efficiently implement this transition, we could experience reduced manufacturing yields, delays in product deliveries and increased expenses, all of which could harm our relationships with our customers and result in the loss of design wins and sales, which would materially adversely affect our results of operations. The complexity of our products could result in unforeseen delays or expenses from undetected defects which could impair market acceptance for our products, damage our reputation and adversely affect our operating costs. Powerline communications is a complex and relatively new technology. Highly complex ICs such as our powerline communications ICs may contain defects, errors and software flaws, or bugs, in the IC hardware or software, particularly when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced in the past and may experience in the future delays and problems in completing the development and introduction of new 31 Table of Contents products and product enhancements due to problems such as defects, errors and bugs. In addition, because we outsource the manufacturing of our ICs, and in some cases purchase the analog front-end components and line drivers used in our chipsets from others, we may be subject to problems resulting from the actions or omissions of these third parties. Furthermore, products incorporating our ICs that are supplied to customers by our OEMs or ODMs may contain defects that are unrelated to our ICs. These problems may delay the introduction and volume shipment of the applicable products, cause existing customers to cancel orders or return previously sold product and harm our ability to retain existing customers and attract new customers. As a result, our operating results may be materially adversely affected. These problems may also require us to incur additional development costs in an effort to correct the problems, which could divert human and financial resources from other new product developments, resulting in the delay of those projects as well. The time and expense required to correct IC defects, errors and bugs can be very high, particularly if the masks for smaller geometry ICs must be redesigned, and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully correct the problems at all or within the time required for the product to be successful in the marketplace. If any of these problems are not found until after we have commenced commercial production of a product, we may be required to incur the cost of product recalls, repairs or replacements. These problems may also result in claims against us by our customers or others. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results could be adversely affected if we have to satisfy product warranty or liability claims. If our ICs or chipsets, or products that integrate our ICs or chipsets, malfunction or are found to be defective, we could be subject to product warranty or product liability claims that could have significant warranty-related charges or litigation costs. In addition, we may spend significant resources investigating potential product design, quality and reliability claims, which could result in additional expenses. We may be unable to raise additional needed capital, which could substantially harm our business and our ability to compete. We believe that our existing balance of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments and cash expected to be generated from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. However, unexpected circumstances could require us to raise additional funds, which we may be unable to obtain on favorable terms, if at all. Recent market conditions have effectively shut down the availability of the equity markets for many companies, including us. We may not have the ability to raise equity in the financial markets for the foreseeable future until conditions in the equity markets improve. Raising additional funds through equity financings may result in a significant dilution of our stockholders’ ownership interest, causing the per share value of our common stock to decline. On the other hand, additional debt financings may only be available on strict terms, if at all, restricting our business through high interest rates or by requiring us to maintain certain liquidity or other ratios. The global credit markets are currently experiencing significant distress and instability, resulting in a dramatic reduction of the willingness by lenders to make new loans and tightened credit requirements, particularly for emerging companies including us. If we were required to seek debt financing, we may not be able to secure such debt financing on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Holders of new equity or debt securities may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our holders of common stock. In either case, an inability to raise additional funds may frustrate our ability to compete and to meet our business objectives, causing our stock price to decline and our stockholders to lose some or all of their investment. An inability to raise necessary additional capital on acceptable terms may reduce our ability to, among other things, enhance our existing products and services and develop new products, expand operations and hire, train and retain employees. Additionally, failure to raise additional capital could harm our ability to acquire complementary businesses, technologies or products. Our failure to take any of these actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The consolidation of industry participants may result in stronger competitors, fewer customers and reduced demand, any of which could harm our business. Historically, consolidation within the semiconductor industry is not uncommon, and we expect it to continue as companies attempt to strengthen their positions in the various markets we have targeted. Consolidation or 32 Table of Contents strategic alliances among competitors could result in stronger competitors with larger customer bases, more diversified product offerings and greater technological and marketing expertise, allowing them to compete more effectively against us. Consolidation among customers could also result in fewer customers, reduced demand and increased pressure on the prices we charge for our products. Consolidation among our third-party suppliers could increase the costs of, or reduce our ability to obtain, needed materials and services, thereby reducing our ability to compete. Any of the above occurrences could have a materially adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified management, technical and other personnel, our business could suffer. Our success depends on our ability to hire and retain experienced executive management and other key employees. Due to the complexity of our products, we are also particularly dependent on qualified research and development personnel. We have entered into employment agreements with some of our management and other employees. However, these agreements do not require them to provide services to us for any specific length of time, and they can terminate their employment with us at any time, with or without notice, without penalty. If we were to lose the services of these executives or of one or more other key employees, our business could be seriously harmed. Competition for qualified personnel in the semiconductor industry is intense. We maintain our headquarters in Orlando, Florida and a portion of our research and development team and other significant operations in Ocala, Florida. As Central Florida often has few, if any, candidates for the positions we are seeking to fill, and many of the potential candidates we recruit may choose not to relocate to Central Florida, we must expend additional time and expense to recruit new employees for our Central Florida locations from outside of our immediate geography. We have also experienced difficulties in recruiting experienced personnel in other areas. Adverse conditions in the housing markets and home mortgage business may make it more difficult for employees being recruited to relocate, reducing our pool of available personnel or increasing our recruiting and relocation costs. Due to these challenges, we may be unable to attract candidates with the qualifications and experience we desire or we may be required to base certain employees in other locations. Moreover, we may need to incur additional costs to hire subcontractors to perform certain functions that would ideally be performed by employees. We expect competition in these areas to continue and we may experience similar difficulties in the future. In addition, we may outsource or expand our operations into overseas locations where we could face significant competition for qualified employees or subcontractors and face challenges in managing those operations from the U.S. We may also face challenges in retaining some of our existing employees because the current market value of our common stock is substantially below the exercise prices of the stock options held by such employees. If we cannot attract additional key employees or if we do not maintain competitive compensation policies to retain current employees, we may not be able to scale our business and operations effectively, and the efficiency and effectiveness of our operations could be impaired. We may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses that may not be successful and that could adversely affect our operating results. As the complexity and speed of technological changes make it impractical for us to pursue development of all technological solutions on our own, we continually evaluate acquisitions of or investments in businesses that may complement our existing product offerings, augment our market coverage or enhance our technological capabilities. However, we cannot assure you that we will be able to identify and consummate suitable acquisition or investment transactions in the future. These acquisitions and investments involve numerous risks, including but not limited to: • problems associated with integrating acquired companies, products or technologies; • the incurrence of substantial debt and assumption of unknown liabilities; 33 Table of Contents • the risk of entering market segments where we have little or no prior experience and where competitors are in a stronger market position than we are; • the potential loss of key employees from the acquired company; • the potential dilution of existing stockholders and subordination to rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of our common stock; • amortization expenses related to intangible assets; • the potential disruption of our ongoing business; • the diversion of management’s attention from other core business concerns; and • potential goodwill impairment. We cannot assure you that any acquisitions or investments will be successfully integrated with our business, and the failure to avoid any of these or other risks associated with such acquisitions or investments could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, increased costs as we comply with the laws and regulations affecting public companies. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other costs associated with the reporting requirements of public companies. We are required to, among other things, create and periodically review the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting and may be required to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge. In addition, the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the rules of the SEC and The NASDAQ Global Market, oblige our management to devote a substantial amount of time to new compliance initiatives, which could increase our legal and financial compliance costs. These costs of compliance, both in the form of monetary expenditures and additional management responsibilities, have been increasing, making them difficult to estimate with any degree of certainty. If our internal controls over financial reporting are inadequate or we have material weaknesses or significant deficiencies, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our business and stock price may be adversely affected. This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes a report on our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404). Section 404 requires our management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, the effectiveness of our internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. We have incurred, and expect that we will continue to incur significant costs, and expend significant time and management resources, to comply with Section 404. Although we have an ongoing program to perform the system and process evaluation and testing necessary to comply with these requirements, we cannot be certain that our management or our independent registered public accounting firm will not identify significant deficiencies or materials weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. In addition, over the course of our ongoing evaluation of our internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. If our internal control over financial reporting is found by management or by our independent registered public accounting firm to be inadequate or if we disclose significant existing or potential deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by The NASDAQ Global Market, the SEC or other regulatory authorities and our stock price could be adversely affected. In addition, such deficiencies could impair our ability to obtain financing or could increase the cost of any financing we obtain and require additional expenditures to comply with applicable requirements. 34 Table of Contents We face business, political, operational, financial and economic risks in our markets outside of the U.S. We conduct a substantial amount of our business with customers and third-party vendors located outside the U.S. We have three wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries, Intellon Canada Inc., Intellon Taiwan Ltd. and Intellon Korea Ltd., and may form additional subsidiaries. We also have employees and distributor relationships in Asia and Europe. Our sales to customers in Asia and Europe accounted for approximately 43% and 46% of revenue in 2008, respectively. Most of our sales in Asia are in Taiwan but also include sales to customers in China, Japan, the Republic of Korea and Singapore, among others. Nearly all of our sales in Europe are currently to customers in France and Germany. In addition, our customers often integrate our ICs into their products that are then sold to end-customers in various locations, including foreign locations. As a result of our international business relationships, we face numerous risks and challenges, including but not limited to: • longer and more difficult collection of receivables; • increased difficulty in enforcement of contractual obligations; • limited protection of our intellectual property and other assets; • compliance with local laws and regulations and unanticipated changes in those laws and regulations, including tax laws and regulations; • trade and foreign exchange restrictions and tariffs; • travel restrictions; • timing and availability of import and export licenses and other governmental approvals, permits and licenses, including export classification requirements; • transportation delays and limited local infrastructure and disruptions, such as large scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities and telecommunications providers; • difficulties in staffing and managing international operations; • local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; • differing employment practices and labor issues; • regional health issues; • work stoppages; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the resulting gains or losses on the conversion to or from U.S. dollars; and • acts of terrorism, war or natural disasters including, particularly in Asia, earthquakes, typhoons, floods and fires. Because most of our OEMs, ODMs and third-party vendors are located overseas, we also face the risk that any impact upon these customers and vendors from the above factors could affect us as well and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our headquarters are located in Florida, and many of our customers and third-party vendors are concentrated in Asia, areas subject to significant natural disaster risks. Our HomePlug-based ICs are manufactured in Taiwan and Singapore and assembled and tested primarily in Taiwan and the Republic of Korea. Our command and control ICs are produced in Singapore and the U.S. Many of our customers and other third-party vendors are also located in Asia. The Pacific Rim region is subject to extreme weather and frequent earthquakes due to the presence of major fault lines. As a result of natural disasters, our customers and third-party vendors in the past have experienced, and in the future may again experience, power outages and other damage and disruptions to their operations. Any disruption in the operations 35 Table of Contents of our customers or our customers’ suppliers could make it difficult or impossible for our customers to produce their products that use our ICs. Any disruption of the operations of our third-party vendors could reduce or eliminate the manufacture, assembly or testing of our ICs by those vendors or make it difficult or impossible for us or our vendors to obtain components or materials necessary for the production of our ICs. In such an event, we may be required to seek alternative sources of supply on reasonable terms and timeframes, and we could be required to incur substantial costs and time delays in doing so, if we can at all. Any significant damage to or destruction of any of the foundries that manufacture the wafers for our ICs would have a particularly adverse effect on us, as the rebuilding of a foundry or locating an alternative manufacturer would be difficult and time consuming. In addition, because the design libraries and manufacturing process used in producing the wafers for our ICs may be specific to the particular foundry, we may be unable to transfer production to an alternative foundry, even if one were available, without incurring substantial time and expense to redesign all or part of the affected IC and to incur the costs of a new IC mask, which can be substantial, particularly for lower process geometries. We do not have any arrangements for any backup sources of supply for the wafers used in our ICs. Our headquarters are located in Florida, an area that often experiences forest fires as well as hurricanes, tropical storms and other extreme weather. We have in the past experienced, and may again in the future experience, power outages and other damage and disruptions in our operations due to these natural disasters. Any of the foregoing disruptions could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our ability to utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards may be limited, which could result in our payment of income taxes earlier than if we were able to fully utilize our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. As of December 31, 2008, we had estimated available U.S. federal income tax net operating loss (NOL) carryforwards of approximately $99.4 million, state income tax net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $66.3 million and estimated U.S. tax credit carryforwards of approximately $5.1 million. To the extent then available, these can be used to offset federal taxable income and federal tax liabilities in future years. Our NOL carryforwards will begin to expire in 2009 and are scheduled to continue to expire through 2027. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (Section 382), imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards that may be used to offset federal taxable income and federal tax liabilities when a corporation has undergone significant changes in its ownership. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards and federal tax credit carryforwards may be limited by the issuance of common stock in future offerings or as a result of future events. In addition, utilization of these net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is dependent upon our achieving profitable results. In connection with our initial public offering in December 2007, we experienced an ownership change as defined by Section 382. As a result of this ownership change, our ability to use our federal NOL carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards in subsequent periods is limited to approximately $5.3 million per year, plus recognized built-in gain during the five years beginning on the date of the ownership change. To the extent our use of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards is further limited by Section 382 as a result of the issuance of common stock in future transactions or by our implementation of an international tax structure or other future events, our income would be subject to cash payments of income tax earlier than it would if we were able to fully use our net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards in the U.S. In addition, we operate in foreign jurisdictions and are subject to paying foreign taxes even though we have net operating losses. We are also subject to alternative minimum tax. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Market volatility could reduce your ability to resell shares of our outstanding common stock. The trading price of our common stock is volatile and is influenced by various factors, some of which are beyond our control. We cannot predict the prices at which, or the volumes in which, our common stock will trade. In addition, public stock markets have recently experienced extreme price and trading volume volatility, as well as sharp price declines, particularly with respect to technology sectors of the market. Stock prices of many 36 Table of Contents technology companies have fluctuated in a manner apparently unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Historically, periods of volatility in a company’s stock prices are sometimes followed by securities class action litigation. Such litigation, if brought against us, could result in substantial legal costs and diversion of management’s attention from the conduct of our business. Future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders could cause the per share price of our common stock to decline. Any sale, or announcement of any sale, of substantial amounts of our common stock (including sales by our management), or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price for our common stock. Such sales or announcements could also make it more difficult for us to sell equity or equity-related securities upon favorable terms in the future, if at all. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Since our initial public offering in December 2007, there has been, and we expect that there will continue to be, only a limited volume of trading in our common stock. We cannot predict whether an active trading market in our common stock will develop or be sustained, or how liquid any such market might become. In the absence of an active public market, it may be difficult for an investor to sell shares of our common stock in the volume, or at a price and time, which is attractive to such investor, if at all. In addition, relatively small trades may have a significant impact on the market price of our common stock, which could increase the volatility and depress the price of our common stock. Moreover, the closing price of our common stock on the NASDAQ Global Market recently dropped below $2.00 per share. At that price level, with our limited trading volume, the policies and practices of institutional investors and brokerage houses may limit investment in our common stock. All of these factors may discourage purchases of our common stock, which may further affect the liquidity of our common stock and potentially lead to further declines in our stock price. Any guidance that we provide about our business or expected future results may differ from actual results. From time to time we have shared our views in press releases, filings with the SEC and on public conference calls about current business conditions and our expectations as to potential future results. Correctly identifying the key factors affecting business conditions and predicting future events is inherently an uncertain process especially in the current adverse economic environment. Given the complexity and volatility of our business, our analyses and forecasts may prove to be incorrect. We offer no assurances that such predictions or analyses will ultimately be accurate, and investors should treat any such predictions or analyses with appropriate caution. Any analysis or forecast that we make which ultimately proves to be inaccurate may adversely affect our stock price. If securities or industry analysts do not publish research or publish misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. The number of securities analysts who cover our company has declined recently. If no or few securities or industry analysts cover our company, the trading price for our stock could be negatively impacted. If one or more of the analysts who covers us downgrades our stock or publishes misleading or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts ceases coverage of our company or fails to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and provisions under Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that act to discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company or changes in our management, even where the stockholders of our company may deem such changes advantageous. These provisions: • establish a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board of directors are elected at one time; 37 Table of Contents • authorize the board to issue “blank check” preferred stock to increase the number of outstanding shares to discourage a takeover attempt; • prohibit stockholder action by written consent, which means that all stockholder actions must be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; • prohibit stockholders from calling a special meeting of our stockholders; • grant the board of directors the authority to make, alter or repeal our bylaws; • establish advance notice requirements for actions to be taken at stockholder meetings or for the nomination of directors to be elected to the board; and • require a supermajority (66 2/3%) vote by stockholders to adopt, amend or repeal certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws. Additionally, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock for a period of three years following the date on which the holder acquired such percentage of the corporation’s stock, unless, among other things, the board of directors approves the transaction. This provision may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Any provision that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock and could also affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 