ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our businesses, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition, may continue to be adversely affected by dislocation in the global credit markets and economic uncertainty. The disruption in the global credit markets, the re-pricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets generally in recent years, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, have all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending and a contraction in global economic growth including the wind energy sector. The recession has had negative effects on demand for alternative sources of energy and consequently for our product and service offerings. Although there is a growing confidence that the global economies have resumed growth, there remains risk that the recovery may not be sustained or that the recovery may not include the industries or markets in which we conduct our business. In addition, because there is a long lead-time between orders for wind products and delivery, there is generally a lag before the impact of changed economic conditions affects our results, and an improvement in economic conditions may not be reflected in our financial results of operations in a corresponding manner. Any deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including lower sales and extended renewal cycles if there is a reduction in demand for wind energy, and such deterioration could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, risks we might face could include potential declines in revenues in our business segments due to reduced orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers, and an inability to finance our operating needs on reasonable terms. The U.S. wind industry is reliant on tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. Our business segments are focused on supplying products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The U.S. wind industry is dependent upon federal tax incentives and state renewable portfolio standards and may not be 9 Table of Contents economically viable absent such incentives. The federal government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including a federal production tax credit, an investment tax credit and a cash grant equal in value to the investment tax credit. The production tax credit was extended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA") in February 2009 and provides the owner of a qualifying wind energy facility placed in service before the end of 2012 with a ten-year tax credit against the owner's federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity generated by the qualifying wind energy facility and sold to unrelated third parties. Alternatively, wind project owners may (i) elect to receive an investment tax credit equal to 30% of the qualifying basis of facilities placed in service before the end of 2012 or (ii) for facilities placed in service in 2009 through 2011 (or, if construction begins before the end of 2011, placed in service before the end of 2012), apply to receive a cash grant from the Department of Treasury, equal in value to the investment tax credit. These programs provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services. The increased demand for our products and services resulting from the credits and incentives may continue until such credits or incentives lapse. The failure of Congress to extend or renew these incentives beyond their current expiration dates could significantly delay the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers, gearing and related components. In addition, we cannot assure you that any subsequent extension or renewal of the production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program will be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. It is possible that these federal incentives will not be extended beyond their current expiration dates. Any delay or failure to extend or renew the federal production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. State renewable energy portfolio standards generally require or encourage state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. Typically, utilities comply with such standards by qualifying for renewable energy credits evidencing the share of electricity that was produced from renewable sources. Under many state standards, these renewable energy credits can be unbundled from their associated energy and traded in a market system, allowing generators with insufficient credits to meet their applicable state mandate. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured products. Currently, the majority of states and the District of Colombia have renewable energy portfolio standards in place and certain states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of renewable energy portfolio standards in additional states or any changes to existing renewable energy portfolio standards, or the enactment of a federal renewable energy portfolio standard or imposition of other greenhouse gas regulations, may impact the demand for our products. We cannot assure you that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, soil and groundwater contamination, employee health and safety, and product content, performance and packaging. We cannot guarantee that we will at all times be in compliance with such laws and regulations, and if we fail to comply with 10 Table of Contents these laws and regulations or our permitting and other requirements, we may be required to pay fines, limit production at our facilities or be subject to other sanctions. Also, certain environmental laws can impose all or a portion of the cost of investigating and cleaning up a contaminated site, regardless of fault, upon any one or more of a number of parties, including the current or previous owner or operator of the site. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at a contaminated site. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of sites and users of disposal sites for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous substances from those sites. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial operations, and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. We are aware of an investigation commenced by the United States Attorney's Office, Northern District of Illinois, for potential violation of federal environmental laws. On February 15, 2011, officials from the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("USEPA") conducted a search of one of our facilities in Cicero, Illinois. Also on February 15, 2011, we received a subpoena requesting production of certain documents relating to the facility's compliance with certain environmental regulations relating to the generation, discharge and disposal of wastewater from certain of our processes from 2004 to the present. On February 23, 2011, we also received an additional subpoena requesting production of certain documents relating to certain of our employees and environmental and manufacturing processes. We do not currently have information as to when the investigation may be concluded, and we are also conducting an internal investigation of any possible noncompliance. At this time, we have not been formally notified that we are a subject or target of the investigation and no fines or penalties have been suggested. There can be no assurances that the conclusion of the investigation will not result in a determination that we have violated applicable laws. If we are found to have violated such laws, we could be subject to fines, civil penalties and criminal penalties. In connection with this investigation, we have recorded a liability of $675 at December 31, 2010, which represents the low end of our estimate of costs and expenses that have been incurred, or which are expected to be incurred during 2011. Due to the preliminary nature of the investigation, it is reasonably possible that our estimate of the obligation may change in the near term. The assertion of further claims relating to on- or off-site contamination, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities, or the imposition of unanticipated investigation or cleanup obligations could result in potentially significant expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Changes in existing environmental laws and regulations, or their application, could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. Our facilities emit greenhouse gases which may be subject to pending or future environmental laws or regulations, which could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve and maintain compliance. Our financial and operating performance is subject to certain factors which are out of our control, including prevailing economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in North America. As a supplier of products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities, our results of operations (like those of our customers) are subject to general economic conditions, and specifically, to the state of the wind energy market. In addition to the state and federal government policies supporting renewable energy described above, the growth and development of the larger wind energy market in North America is subject to a number of factors, including, among other things: •the availability of financing for the estimated pipeline of wind development projects; 11 Table of Contents •the cost of electricity, which may be affected by a number of factors, including government regulation, power transmission, seasonality, fluctuations in demand, and the cost and availability of fuel and particularly natural gas; •the development of new power generating technology or advances in existing technology or discovery of power generating natural resources; •the development of electrical transmission infrastructure; •state and federal laws and regulations, particularly those favoring low carbon energy generation alternatives; •administrative and legal challenges to proposed wind development projects; and •public perception and localized community responses to wind energy projects. In addition, while some of the factors listed above may only affect individual wind project developments or portions of the market, in the aggregate they may have a significant effect on the successful development of the wind energy market as a whole, and thus affect our operating and financial results. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers. The wind turbine market in the U.S. is very concentrated, with ten manufacturers controlling in excess of 99% of the market. Like us, these customers were adversely affected by the recent downturn in the economy and the wind energy market, and we have seen, and may continue to see, a decrease in order volume from such customers. Historically, the majority of our revenues are highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2010, two customers—Gamesa and General Electric—each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues and our five largest customers accounted for 78% of our consolidated revenues. Our customers periodically have expressed their intent to scale back, delay or restructure existing customer agreements, which has led to reduced revenues from these customers and which may occur again in the future. As a result, our operating profits and gross margins have been negatively affected by a decline in production levels, which has created production volume inefficiencies in our operations and cost structures. Additionally, if our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which would materially adversely affect our results. We could be adversely impacted by decreased customer demand for our products and services due to (1) the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, (2) our customers' loss of market share to competitors of theirs that do not use our products, and (3) our loss of market share with our customers. We could lose market share with our customers to competitors or to our customers themselves, should they decide to become more vertically integrated and produce our products or deliver our services internally. Finally, most of our customers do not purchase all of our products and services, so if some of our customers gain market share, it could impact our mix of products and services among our segments. In addition, even if our customers continue to do business with us, we can be adversely affected by a number of other potential developments with our customers. For example: •our customers may not comply with their contractual payment or volume obligations. The inability or failure of our customers to meet their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations; •our customers have in the past sought, and in the future may seek, to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. For example, some customers have sought payments from us for claims despite contractual limits that preclude our obligation to make payments for such claims; 12 Table of Contents •although our subsidiary companies operate independently, a dispute between a significant customer and us or one of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on the business relationship we have with that customer across our entire organization. Among other things, such a dispute could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of our subsidiaries that are otherwise not related to such dispute; and •a material change in payment terms for accounts receivable of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash flows. Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the economy and in the wind energy market. Current market disruptions and regular market volatility may have adverse impacts on our customers' ability to pay when due the amounts payable to us and could cause related increases in our working capital or borrowing needs. In addition, our customers have in the past attempted and may attempt in the future to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. Our backlog is significant, but we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of our backlog that we will ultimately ship to our customers. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers asserting warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products or services that they would not ordinarily assert in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation against the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty raising additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms and there can be no assurances that our operations will generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. We rely on banks and capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. While we anticipate that our current cash resources and cash generated through our operations and credit line will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months, our committed sources of liquidity may be inadequate to satisfy our operational needs. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. In the absence of access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations at times when the prices for such assets are depressed. In such event, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions. Furthermore, the proceeds of any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments on our existing or future debt obligations and fund operations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. While we believe we will continue to have sufficient cash flows to operate our businesses, there can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to pay our remaining indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable which could force us to liquidate certain assets or substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if our current sources of financing are reduced or unavailable, we will likely be 13 Table of Contents required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate our plans for expansion and growth and this could affect our overall operations. Growth and diversification through acquisitions and internal expansion may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance. To execute our business strategy, we may seek to acquire new businesses. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions. If we are unable to make acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the growth we anticipate. Future acquisitions could involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired business, and the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully manage these acquisition risks, future earnings may be adversely affected. We may also grow our existing business through increased production levels at existing facilities and through expansion to new manufacturing facilities and locations, such as our recently completed drivetrain service center in Abilene, Texas. Such expansion and any future expansion will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems and equipment, and property. Difficulties or delays in acquiring and effectively integrating any new facilities may adversely affect future performance. For example, we recorded higher costs in 2009 in connection with the startup of production at our Abilene, Texas tower manufacturing facility. Moreover, if our expansion efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected. We face competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. In addition, we may face competition from our customers as they seek to be more vertically integrated and offer full service packages. Some of our customers are also performing more services themselves. We have generated net losses and negative cash flows since our inception. We have experienced operating losses for each of the years during which we have operated. In addition, in light of current economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in the U.S., we anticipate that losses and periods of negative cash flow may occur in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses, and there is no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products and services, no assurance can be given that these products and services can be sold on a profitable basis. If we achieve profitability, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 14 Table of Contents We may not be able to identify alternative uses, sell or otherwise dispose of our wind tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota. In the first quarter of 2010, we completed construction of a third wind tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota, but as of the date hereof, we have not commenced production at this facility. Following the Company's strategic planning meetings that took place in the fourth quarter of 2010, we determined that due to the oversupply of capacity in the U.S. tower market and the significant level of towers imported from Asia, it would be difficult or impossible to operate this facility in a profitable or cost-effective manner. We are currently exploring alternative uses for the building and equipment comprising this facility. In connection with this determination, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded an impairment charge of $13.3 million. We may elect to sell or otherwise dispose of the facility and equipment, or use them for a different business purpose. If we are unable to find an alternative use or are unable to sell or otherwise dispose of the facility and equipment, we would continue to incur significant fixed costs associated with ownership of the facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to identify alternate uses, sell or otherwise dispose of the facility and equipment on terms deemed to be commercially reasonable by us. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to take additional write downs to the carrying value of long-lived assets associated with any of our operating segments in the future. We review our long-lived assets, including intangibles, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by a comparison of the assets' carrying amount to their expected future undiscounted net cash flows. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured based on the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. In addition to the impairment related to our Brandon, South Dakota wind tower manufacturing facility, during the fourth quarter of 2010 we performed a review of other long-lived assets and concluded that the projected fair value of the Services segment assets was less than the carrying value. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $22.9 million related to intangible and other long-lived assets. In the future, if our projected undiscounted cash flows associated with our operating segments do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record additional write-downs of the carrying value of intangible assets or other long-lived assets associated with any of our operating segments and our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in our production process, and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for items such as steel, the primary raw material used by us, have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we have generally incorporated price adjustment clauses in our sales contracts. However, limitations on availability of raw materials or increases in the cost of raw materials (including steel), energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results if our manufacturing businesses are not able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases to their respective customers. Alternatively, we will not realize material improvements from declines in steel prices as the terms of many of our contracts provide that we pass through these costs to our customers. 15 Table of Contents In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by such events as natural disasters, power outages and labor strikes. In the event of significant increases or decreases in the price of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products and services are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may be adversely affected. We had previously made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the U.S. wind energy market. However, the growth in the U.S. wind energy market has not kept pace with the expectations we had when some of these capital investments were made, and there can be no assurance that the U.S. wind energy market will grow and develop in a manner consistent with our past expectations. The expansion of our internal manufacturing and service capabilities has required significant up-front fixed costs. If market demand for our products and services does not increase at the pace we have anticipated and align with our expanded manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and to achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of high fixed costs, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. In light of these considerations, we may be forced to temporarily idle existing capacity or sell to third parties manufacturing capacity that we cannot utilize in the near term. Alternatively, if we experience rapid demand for our products and services in excess of our estimates, or we have reduced our manufacturing capacity, our installed capital equipment and existing workforce may be insufficient to support higher production volumes, which could harm our customer relationships and overall reputation. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products and services requested by our customers, and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations. If our estimates for warranty expenses differ materially from actual claims made, or if we are unable to reasonably estimate future warranty expense for our products and services, our business and financial results could be negatively affected. We provide warranty terms generally ranging between one and seven years to our tower, gearing and services customers depending upon the specific product or service and terms of the customer agreement. We reserve for warranty claims based on industry experience and estimates made by management based upon a percentage of our sales revenues related to such products or services. From time to time, customers have submitted warranty claims against us. However, we have a limited history on which to base our warranty estimates for certain products that we manufacture and services that we provide. Our assumptions could be materially different from the actual performance of our products in the future and could exceed the levels against which we have reserved. In some instances our customers have interpreted the scope and coverage of certain of our warranty provisions differently from our interpretation of such provisions. The expenses associated with remediation activities in the wind energy industry can be substantial, and if we are required to pay such costs in connection with a customer's warranty claim we could be subject to additional unplanned cash expenditures. If our estimates prove materially incorrect, or if we are required to cover remediation expenses in addition to our regular warranty coverage, we could be required to incur additional expenses and could face a material unplanned cash expenditure, which could harm our financial and operating results. 16 Table of Contents Material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, including potential failure to prevent or detect errors or fraud, could affect the accuracy of our reported financial results. We are required to design, implement and maintain effective controls over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company's annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As referenced in Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, management of the Company has determined that as of December 31, 2010, the Company maintained effective controls over financial reporting. However, in each of 2008 and 2009 management concluded that the Company had material weaknesses over its internal controls over financial reporting. While we have now remediated these past material weaknesses and believe that we have designed and implemented procedures to maintain effective controls over financial reporting, we cannot be certain that we will not in the future have material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, or that we will successfully remediate any weaknesses or deficiencies that we find. Internal control weaknesses or deficiencies in the future could affect our ability to complete our financial reporting on a timely basis or report accurate numbers. If we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ("Sarbanes-Oxley") in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets, and could cause our stock price to decline. Trade restrictions may present barriers to entry in certain international markets. Restrictions on trade with certain international markets could affect our ability to expand into those markets. In addition, the existence of government subsidies available to our competitors in certain countries may affect our ability to compete on a price basis. We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine component manufacturing. The global market for wind turbines is rapidly evolving technologically. Our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. For example, some wind turbine manufacturers are using wind turbine towers made from concrete instead of steel. Other wind turbine designs have reduced the use of gearing or eliminated the gearbox entirely through the use of direct or compact drive technologies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, our net worth, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect our future success. We are dependent on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce at our Cicero and Neville Island gearing facilities. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike, or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Collective bargaining agreements have been ratified by collective bargaining units in place at our Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania facilities and expire in February 2014 and October 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, our collective bargaining units represented approximately 23% of our workforce. 17 Table of Contents We need to hire additional qualified personnel, including management personnel, and the loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and key personnel throughout our organization. During 2011, we will likely need to hire additional personnel, including management, engineering and sales personnel, to fill in our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success and our current level of controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all such requirements. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we may be or become subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. There can be no guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with such standards and requirements. We continue to develop our internal controls with a goal of providing a greater degree of certainty that our businesses are in compliance with applicable governmental and regulatory requirements, but our current level of internal control may fail to reveal to us material instances of non-compliance with such requirements, and such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our principal stockholder has the ability to influence our affairs significantly. Tontine Capital Management, L.L.C. ("TCM"), Tontine Capital Overseas GP, L.L.C. ("TCO"), Tontine Management, L.L.C. ("TM"), Tontine Overseas Associates, L.L.C. ("TOA"), Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund II, L.P. ("TCP II"), Tontine Assets Associates, L.L.C. ("TAA"), Tontine Power Partners, L.P. ("TPP") and Tontine Associates, L.L.C. ("TA," and collectively with TCM, TCO, TM, TOA, TCP II, TAA and TPP and their affiliates, "Tontine") owns approximately 18.3% of our outstanding common stock. Although Tontine currently does not have any representatives on our Board of Directors, Tontine has, and for so long as they hold at least 10% of our then issued and outstanding common stock will continue to have, the right to designate two individuals on our Board of Directors pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement entered into with Broadwind in August 2007. As a result, Tontine may have the ability to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. Tontine's significant ownership level may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. In addition, the actions of Tontine may have the effect of influencing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. 18 Table of Contents We may not have the technical expertise and we may be unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to successfully market new products that we may develop. A key element of our business and operating strategy is to exploit our technological ability to design new manufacturing and service processes and products to take advantage of the anticipated growth in the North American wind market. Historically, we have not developed patented technology or engaged in technical design work on a significant scale. If we are unable to develop new manufacturing and service processes and products that are attractive to our customers and potential customers, or if we are unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to prevent our competitors from developing and marketing substantially similar products, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot insure against all potential risks and may have difficulty insuring our business activities or become subject to increased insurance premiums. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including inherent risks associated with manufacturing and service and construction support for wind turbines. To mitigate the risks associated with our business, we have obtained various insurance policies. However, our insurance policies have high deductibles in certain instances and do not cover losses as a result of certain events such as terrorist attacks. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to annual review by our insurers and these policies may not be renewed at all or on similar or favorable terms. If we were to incur a significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the limits of our insurance policies, the results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 19 Table of Contents 