Item 1A: Risk Factors You should be aware that the occurrence of any of the events described in this section and elsewhere in this annual report or in any other of our filings with the SEC could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, liquidity and results of operations. In evaluating our company, you should consider carefully, among other things, the factors and the specific risks set forth below. This annual report contains “forward-looking statements” that involve risks and uncertainties. Some of the following risks relate principally to the industry in which we operate and to our business. Other risks relate principally to the securities markets and ownership of our common shares. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected, the trading price of your shares could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the United States and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. To better appreciate this discussion of risks, we encourage you to first read the descriptions of our business and assets in Item 2 “Properties” of this Part I and read Part 2 of this Form 10-K. 10 Table of Contents Risks related to our industry, business and strategy We have incurred losses from operations in the past and may do so in the future. We incurred a net loss in 2007, 2008 and 2009. Our future financial results depend primarily on our ability to discover commercial quantities of oil and gas and to implement our exploration and development program. We cannot predict that our future operations will be profitable. In addition, our operating results may vary significantly during any financial period. These variations may be caused by significant periods of time between discovery and development of oil or gas reserves in commercial quantities. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and have substantially fluctuated in the two years ended December 31, 2009. Price declines or sustained periods of relatively low prices in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States could significantly affect our future financial results and impede our growth. Our revenues, profitability and liquidity are substantially dependent upon prevailing prices for oil and natural gas, which can be extremely volatile. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile and have substantially fluctuated in the two years ended December 31, 2009. Even relatively modest drops in prices can significantly affect our financial results and impede our growth. Prices for oil and natural gas may fluctuate widely in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty and a wide variety of additional factors that are beyond our control, such as the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; the price of foreign imports; the ability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree to and maintain oil price and production controls; technological advances affecting energy consumption; domestic and foreign governmental regulations; and the variations between product prices at sales points and applicable index prices. Our operations are focused on oil and gas exploration and production in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States. Regional oil and gas prices may vary from national prices due to regional factors such as regional gas production being constrained by regional gas pipeline capacity. Price declines or sustained periods of relatively low prices in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States could significantly affect our future financial results and impede our growth. Our operations are subject to governmental risks that may impact our operations. Our operations have been, and at times in the future may be, affected by political developments and are subject to complex federal, state, tribal, local and other laws and regulations such as restrictions on production, permitting, changes in taxes, deductions, royalties and other amounts payable to governments or governmental agencies, price or gathering-rate controls, hydraulic fracturing and environmental protection regulations. In order to conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. We may incur substantial costs in order to maintain compliance with these existing laws and regulations. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws, including environmental and tax laws, and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. For example, currently proposed federal legislation, that, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, includes the following: • Climate-Change Legislation. Climate-change legislation establishing a “cap-and-trade” plan for green-house gases (GHGs) has been approved by the U.S. House of Representatives. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when the U.S. Senate may act on climate-change legislation. • EPA Regulation of GHG emissions. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has also taken recent action related to GHGs. Based on recent developments; the EPA now purports to have a basis to begin regulating emissions of GHGs under existing provisions of the federal Clean Air Act. 11 Table of Contents • Tax Legislation. The federal, state and local governments in which we operate impose taxes on the oil and gas products we sell and for many of our wells, sales and use taxes on significant portions of our drilling and operating costs. In the past, there has been a significant amount of discussion by legislators and presidential administrations concerning a variety of energy tax proposals. The U.S. President’s Fiscal Year 2011 Budget Proposal includes provisions that would, if enacted, make significant changes to United States tax laws. These changes include, but are not limited to (i) eliminating the immediate deduction for intangible drilling and development costs and (ii) eliminating the percentage depletion deduction. Many states have raised state taxes on energy sources, and additional increases may occur. Changes to the laws could adversely affect our business and our financial results. • Federal Regulations regarding Hydraulic Fracturing. The U.S. Congress is currently considering legislation to amend the federal Safe Drinking Water Act to require the disclosure of chemicals used by the oil and natural gas industry in the hydraulic fracturing process. Currently, regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state level through permitting and other compliance requirements. This legislation, if adopted, could establish an additional level of regulation and permitting at the federal level. • Federal Legislation regarding derivatives. The U.S. Congress is currently considering derivatives reform legislation focusing on expanding Federal regulation surrounding the use of financial derivative instruments, including credit default swaps, commodity derivatives and other over-the-counter derivatives. Among the recommendations included in the proposals are the requirements for centralized clearing or settling of such derivatives as well as the expansion of collateral margin requirements for certain derivative market participants. Our development and exploration operations require substantial capital, and we may be unable to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms, which could lead to a loss of properties and a decline in our natural gas and oil reserves. The oil and natural gas industry is capital intensive. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures in our business and operations for the exploration for and development, production and acquisition of oil and natural gas reserves. To date, we have financed capital expenditures primarily with sales of our securities, sale of certain oil and gas properties and, to a lesser extent, from cash generated by operations. We expect to finance our known capital expenditures for 2010 primarily with existing capital and with proceeds from the expected sale of our Fetter and Krejci properties. We currently do not generate meaningful cash flow from our oil and natural gas production, even though our future depends on our ability to generate oil and natural gas operating cash flow. We may generate additional capital to fund increases in capital expenditures through any of: (i) the sale of some oil and gas lease interests, (ii) additional sales of our securities, and/or (iii) debt financing. We may not be able to obtain equity or debt financing on terms favorable to us, or at all. Our ability to grow our oil and natural gas reserves and cash flow may be severely impacted if we are unable to obtain equity or debt financing as we may not be able to continue to drill all or some of our projects. Oil and gas operations are inherently risky. The nature of the oil and gas business involves a variety of risks, particularly the risk of drilling wells that are found to be unable to produce any oil and gas or unable to produce and sell oil and gas at prices sufficient to repay the costs of the wells and the costs of producing the wells. As we have experienced in 2008 and 2009, we may in the future recognize substantial impairment expenses when uneconomic wells and declines in oil and gas prices result in impairments of the capitalized costs of our oil and gas properties. The oil and gas business also includes operating hazards such as fires, explosions, cratering, blow-outs and encountering formations with abnormal pressures. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in losses. The occurrence of any one of these significant events, if it is not fully insured against, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and results of operations. We currently conduct our oil and gas activities in joint ventures with other oil and gas companies, whereby one of the other companies serves as the joint venture’s operator for the day-to-day management of the venture. Under terms of joint operating agreements, the operator is required to carry stated levels and types of casualty and liability insurance. In addition, we carry our own casualty and liability insurance for our interests in such ventures and carry additional insurance against well blow-outs and other unusual risks in the drilling, completion and operation of oil and gas wells. However, there may still be fires, blow-outs and other events that result in losses not fully covered by our insurance. 12 Table of Contents We may be unable to find additional reserves. Our revenues depend on whether we find or acquire additional reserves. Unless we conduct successful exploration and development activities, or acquire properties, our proved reserves will decline. Our future oil and natural gas reserves and production as well as our cash flow and income are dependent on our ability to efficiently develop and exploit our current reserves and economically find or acquire additional reserves. Our planned exploration and development projects may not result in significant additional reserves, and we may be unable to drill productive wells at low reserve replacement costs. We could be adversely impacted by changes in the oil and gas market. The marketability of our oil and gas production depends in part upon the availability, proximity and capacity of gas gathering systems, pipelines and processing facilities. Federal and state regulation of oil and gas production and transportation, general economic conditions, changes in supply and changes in demand all could adversely affect our ability to produce and market oil and natural gas. If market factors were to change dramatically, the financial impact could be substantial because we would incur expenses without receiving revenues from the sale of production. The availability of markets is beyond our control. Our leases may expire before we are able to dill. Typically, we own the rights to drill for oil and natural gas by leasing these rights from the mineral owners. All of our leases have lease expiration deadlines and to the extent we do not drill or extend these leases, they will expire and we will no longer own the rights to drill for and produce hydrocarbons. We are subject to extensive government regulations. Our business is affected by numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations, including energy, environmental, conservation, tax and other laws and regulations relating to the oil and gas industry. These include, but are not limited to: • the prevention of waste, • the discharge of materials into the environment, • the conservation of oil and natural gas, • pollution, • permits for drilling operations, • drilling bonds, and • reports concerning operations, spacing of wells, and the unitization and pooling of properties. Failure to comply with any laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of injunctive relief, or both. Moreover, changes in any of the above laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. Government concerns of major global climate change and global warming may result in changes to laws and regulations that increase the cost of oil and gas operations and decrease the use and demand for crude oil and natural gas. In view of the many uncertainties with respect to current and future laws and regulations, including their applicability to us, we cannot predict the overall effect of such laws and regulations on our future operations. Many jurisdictions have at various times imposed limitations on the production of oil and gas by restricting the rate of flow for oil and gas wells below their actual capacity to produce. Because current regulations covering our operations are subject to change at any time, compliance in the future may require us to incur significant costs or activity restrictions. 13 Table of Contents Shortages of rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel could delay or otherwise adversely affect our cost of operations or our ability to operate according to our business plans. As we have encountered at times in the past, we or our joint venture operators may experience shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment and qualified personnel which may cause delays in our ability to continue to drill, complete, test and connect wells to processing facilities. At times in the past, these costs have sharply increased in various areas. The demand for and wage rates of qualified drilling rig crews generally rise in response to the increased number of active rigs in service and could increase sharply in the event of a shortage. Shortages of drilling and completion rigs, field equipment or qualified personnel could delay, restrict or curtail our exploration and development operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Shortages of transportation services and processing facilities may result in our receiving a discount in the price we receive for oil and natural gas sales or may adversely affect our ability to sell our oil and natural gas. As we have experienced at times in the past, we may experience limited access to transportation lines, trucks or rail cars used to transport our oil and natural gas to processing facilities. We may also experience limited access to processing facilities. If either or both of these situations arise, we may not be able to sell our oil and natural gas at prevailing market prices. We may be completely unable to sell our oil and natural gas, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We could be adversely impacted by customer(s) and industry partners unable to meet their obligations. Substantially all of our accounts receivable arise from oil and natural gas sales or joint interest billings to third parties in the oil and gas industry. Our financial results could be adversely impacted by one or more of such third parties being unable to meet their obligations to us. The current global and US economic and financial recessions may have impacts on our business and financial condition that we currently cannot predict. The global and US economic recessions, credit crisis and related turmoil in national and global financial systems that begin in 2008 substantially contributed to the dramatic decrease in oil and gas prices in the second half of 2008 and in the first three months of 2009. The price declines adversely affected US oil and gas producers including us. Uncertainties as to the extent, duration and impacts of the global and US recessions increase uncertainties and risks for us. With the general economic and financial crises, (i) our ability to access capital markets may be restricted in the future when we may like, or need, to raise financing, (ii) our suppliers, customers and business partners may be unable to meet their obligations to us, (iii) we may be unable to profitably sell, extend or explore oil and gas lease rights we currently own and (iii) we may face unanticipated challenges to our business and financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our common stock has historically been thinly traded, so investors may not be able to sell any significant number of shares of our stock at prevailing market prices. Although the average daily trading volume of our common stock was approximately 840,000 shares per trading day over the 90-day period ended March 4, 2010, there is no assurance that the average daily volume will remain at this level. If limited trading of our stock returns, it may be difficult for investors to sell their shares in the public market at any given time at prevailing prices. 14 Table of Contents Our stock price and trading volume may be volatile, which could result in losses for our stockholders. The equity trading markets may experience periods of volatility, which could result in highly variable and unpredictable pricing of equity securities. The market of our common stock could change in ways that may or may not be related to our business, our industry or our operating performance and financial condition. In addition, the trading volume of our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • conditions generally affecting the oil and natural gas industry, such as declines in the prices of oil and gas, • actual or anticipated quarterly variations in our operating results, • changes in expectations as to our future financial performance or changes in financial estimates, if any, • announcements relating to our business or the business of our competitors, • the success or failure of our operating strategy and • the operating and stock performance of other comparable companies. Many of these factors are beyond our control, and we cannot predict their potential effects on the price of our common stock. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares of common stock at or above the price you acquired those shares. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly. We may issue debt or preferred stock with rights that are preferential to, and could cause a decrease in the value of, our common stock. We may issue debt and/or up to 24.1 million shares of preferred stock without action by our stockholders. Rights or preferences of the debt or preferred shares could include, among other things: • the establishment of principal and interest obligations or dividends which must be paid prior to declaring or paying dividends or other distributions to our common stockholders, • a security interest in some or all of our assets that could be foreclosed upon in the event of default of a loan agreement or similar instrument, • greater or preferential liquidation rights which could negatively affect the rights of common stockholders and • the right to convert the debt or preferred stock at a rate or price which would have a dilutive effect on the outstanding shares of common stock. Item 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments The Company has not received any unresolved written comments from the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports not less than 180 days before the end of its fiscal year to which this Form 10-K relates. 15 Table of Contents 