ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this offering that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. 12 Risks Associated With Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. We commenced operations of our CWSF business in 2007. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the coal products and alternative energy industry in China. Our limited history for producing CWSF may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospectus and results of operations. Our operations are subject to all of the risks, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the operation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the CWSF industry. Investors should evaluate us in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products, and technologies. Despite best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles to financial success. Our production and sale of CWSF is dependent upon the implementation of our business plan, as well as our ability to enter into agreements with third parties for the provision of coal on terms that will be commercially viable for us. There can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful or result in sales or profit. If we fail to execute on our business plan, there could be a material adverse effect on our operations. If we require additional financing to execute our business plan, we may not be able to find such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. The revenues from the sales of CWSF may not be adequate to support the expansion of our business. We may still need substantial additional funds to build and maintain new production facilities, pursue research and development activities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and market our business. While we may seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources, there are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we may need to reduce, defer or cancel any plans of expansion, including overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements as they arise would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are dependent on the PRC coal markets, which may be cyclical. As all of our revenue is derived from sales of CWSF, our business and operating results are substantially dependent on the domestic supply of coal, especially washed coal. The PRC coal market is cyclical and exhibits fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year and is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the economic conditions in the PRC, the global economic conditions and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the power and steel industries. Fluctuations in supply and demand for coal have effects on coal prices which, in turn, affect our operating and financial performance. The demand for coal is primarily affected by the overall economic development and the demand for coal from the electricity generation, steel and construction industries. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of the coal supplies, the volume of coal produced by domestic and international coal suppliers, and the quality and price of competing sources of coal. Alternative fuels such as natural gas, oil and nuclear power, alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, and international shipping costs also have effects on the market demand for coal. Excess demand for coal may have an adverse effect on coal prices which would, in turn, cause a decline in our profitability. A significant increase in domestic coal prices could also materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. 13 We rely on a limited number of third-party suppliers for our supply of coal and the loss of any such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent upon our relationships with local third parties for our supply of coal. Five suppliers provided 100% of the coal we used to produce CWSF in 2007, 2008 and 2009 and our single largest supplier provided 70%, 93%, and 85%, respectively. Suppliers are generally paid upon delivery with a varying level of deposit up to 2 months and we generally enter into one-year contracts with our suppliers. While we expect to increase the number of suppliers we use as our business expands, if any of these suppliers, and in particular our largest supplier, terminate their supply relationship with us we may be unable to procure sufficient amounts of coal to fulfill our demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of coal to meet the demand for our CWSF product, our customers could seek to purchase products from other suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues. In the past we have derived a significant portion of our sales from a few large customers. If we were to lose any such customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected Our customer base has been highly concentrated. As of December 31, 2009, we had 27 customers all within Shaanxi Province. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, our five largest customers contributed 94%, 59% and 37.36% of our total revenues, respectively, while our largest customer contributed 31%, 14% and 14% of our total revenues, respectively. Our total number of customers is still relatively concentrated and limited, and any adverse developments to any one of their business operations could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and prospects will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. We face competition in all areas of our business. While we have no direct competitor for CWSF in Shaanxi Province where we are based, there are other CWSF producers in other areas of China that may look to expand their business into our market. Additionally, we must compete against producers of other forms of energy such as coal, natural gas and oil, which may have broader market acceptance. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and technological resources than we have, and they may have more well-known brand names in the marketplace. If we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors, this may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We depend on our key executives, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our key executives. In particular, we are highly dependent upon Mr. Baowen Ren, our chairman, chief executive officer and president, who has established relationships within the industries we operate. If we lose the services of one or more of our current executive officers, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain new officers with industry experience similar to our current officers, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. Competition for qualified candidates could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. 14 Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain, maintain or renew necessary permits or licenses. All PRC enterprises in the CWSF industry are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain permits and licenses, including, without limitation, a business license. We have obtained permits and licenses required for the production and distribution of CWSF. Failure to obtain all necessary approvals/permits may subject us to various penalties, such as fines or being required to vacate from the facilities where we currently operate our business. These permits and licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We intend to apply for renewal and/or reassessment of such permits and licenses when required by applicable laws and regulations, however, we cannot assure you that we can obtain, maintain or renew the permits and licenses or accomplish the reassessment of such permits and licenses in a timely manner. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations that may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew the licenses, permits and approvals, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being renewed and/or reassessed. We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance. Our manufacturing facilities may be affected by water, gas, fire or structural problems. As a result, we, like other coal-based products companies, may experience accidents that will cause property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities and provided on-the-job training for our employees, there can be no assurance that accidents will not occur in the future. Additionally, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of our product cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for resulting damages. Although some of our production line equipments and vehicles are covered by property insurance, we do not currently maintain fire, casualty or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment or inventories. In addition, we do not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims related to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties, other than third party liability insurance with respect to vehicles. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by us could exceed our resources and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations are subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC. We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: · The PRC government currently supports the development and operation of clean coal technology such as CWSF. If the PRC government changes its current policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face significant constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability; · Under current PRC regulatory requirements, projects for the development of CWSF require approval of the PRC government. If we are required to undertake any such projects for our growth or for cost reduction and we do not obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis or at all, our financial condition and operating performances could be adversely affected; 15 · The PRC government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform its economic system. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the PRC government such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions; · Since 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars has generally been stable. On July 21, 2005, however, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system. Under the reform, RMB is no longer effectively linked to US dollars but instead is allowed to trade in a tight 0.3% band against a basket of foreign currencies. Any devaluation of the RMB may adversely affect the value of our shares and dividends payable thereon as we receive our revenues and denominate our profits in RMB. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than RMB in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the RMB is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy any foreign currency-denominated obligations; and · Since 1997, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in the PRC. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, the PRC’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of PRC’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making CWSF obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from other alternative energy companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may be more effective and are less costly than CWSF. Over time, CWSF may become obsolete or uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The commercial success of CWSF depends on the degree of its market acceptance among industrial and civil heating customers and if CWSF does not attain market acceptance, our operations and profitability would be adversely affected. Despite the central government’s push for clean-coal technology and the support for CWSF amongst a number of municipal governments, CWSF may ultimately not gain wide market acceptance in the PRC. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of its efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the product. Limited information regarding these factors is available in connection with CWSF or competitive products. 16 To establish wide market acceptance of CWSF, we will require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities, as well as continuing governmental support for the use of CWSF. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, and our ability to influence governmental support is limited. If CWSF does not gain wide market acceptance, our ability to continue to generate or increase revenue may be limited. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if our product causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. We currently do not have product liability insurance. We are not insured with respect to this liability. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of our product may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our product, our liability could exceed our total assets. We may be unable to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results. Our reporting obligations as a public company place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we could experience delays or inaccuracies in our reporting of financial information, or non-compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, reporting and other regulatory requirements. This could subject us to regulatory scrutiny and result in a loss of public confidence in our management, which could, among other things, adversely affect our stock price. Our business may be harmed because we do not carry any business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in the PRC is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in the PRC offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We depend on a core team of management and operational personnel. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objectives. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and operational personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in our field and industry. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. Downturn in the global economy may slow domestic growth in China, which, in turn, may effect our business. Due to the global downturn in the financial markets, China may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the decreased demand for China’s exported good in countries that are in recessions. Although we do not presently export any of our products, our earnings may become unstable if China’s domestic growth slows significantly and the domestic demand for energy declines. 17 Risk Related to the Alternative Energy Industry A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or other alternative energy may have a negative effect on our business. A customer’s decision to purchase CWSF will be primarily driven by the return on investment resulting from the energy savings from CWSF. Any fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and other alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels could cause the demand for CWSF to decline and have a material adverse affect on our business and results of operations. Although we believe that current levels of retail energy prices support a reasonable return on investment for CWSF, there can be no assurance that future retail pricing of conventional energy and other alternative energy will remain at such levels. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of CWSF, which may significantly affect the demand for our products. CWSF is subject to oversight and regulations in accordance with national and local ordinances and regulations relating to safety, environmental protection, and related matters. We are responsible for knowing such ordinances and regulations, and must comply with these varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our product may result in significant additional expenses to us and our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our product. The market for CWSF is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success remains uncertain. If CWSF is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for CWSF does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, demand for CWSF in the markets and geographic regions where we operate may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of CWSF and demand for our products, including: · cost-effectiveness of CWSF as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; · performance and reliability of CWSF as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; · capital expenditures by customers used to buy CWSF boilers tend to decrease if the PRC or global economy slows down; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business operations are conducted entirely in the PRC. Because of China’s economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in western countries and are continually changing, we will face risks including those summarized below. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 18 Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Certain of our customers are PRC government entities and our dealings with them are likely to be considered to be with government officials for these purposes. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in mainland China. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We could suffer severe penalties if our employees or other agents were found to have engaged in such practices. The payment of dividends in the PRC is subject to limitations. We may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC, subject to certain statutory procedural requirements. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign owned enterprises is also required to set aside at least 10.0% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50.0% of their respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 19 Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including: · the amount of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The PRC economic cycle may negatively impact our operating results. The rapid growth of the PRC economy before 2008 generally led to higher levels of inflation. The PRC economy has more recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of the Renminbi, or RMB, the currency of China, which has adversely affected China’s exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and the significance of the adverse impact it may have on the global economy in general, or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth and demand for our services which could reduce our revenues. In the event of a recovery in the PRC, renewed high growth levels may again lead to inflation. Government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in inflation. 20 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us and our management. All of the assets of Suoke Clean Energy, Suo’ang New Energy and Shenyang Energy are located in, and all of our senior executive officers reside within, China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers and directors not residing in the United States, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, our public stockholders may have substantial difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors than would stockholders of a corporation with assets and management members located in the United States. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all of our revenues in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. Any significant fluctuation in value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. We face risks related to health epidemics and outbreak of contagious disease. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by the effects of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other epidemics or outbreaks. In April 2009, an outbreak of H1N1 flu (swine flu) first occurred in Mexico and quickly spread to other countries, including the U.S. and the PRC. In the last decade, the PRC has suffered health epidemics related to the outbreak of avian influenza and severe acute respiratory syndrome. Any prolonged occurrence or recurrence of H1N1 flu (swine flu), avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome or other adverse public health developments in the PRC may have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. These health epidemics could result in severe travel restrictions and closures that would restrict our ability to ship our products. Potential outbreaks could also lead to temporary closure of our production facilities, our suppliers’ facilities and/or our end-user customers’ facilities, leading to reduced production, delayed or cancelled orders, and decrease in demand for our products. Any future health epidemic or outbreaks that could disrupt our operations and/or restrict our shipping abilities may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 21 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities The full conversion of certain outstanding convertible notes and the full exercise of certain outstanding warrants could result in the substantial dilution of the company in terms of a particular percentage ownership in the company as well as the book value of common stock. The sale of a large amount of common stock received upon conversion of the notes and exercise of the warrants on the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could substantially depress the prevailing market prices for our stock. There are over 9 million warrants outstanding from the financings that closed in September 2008. Additionally, the convertible notes that we issued in July 2009 may currently be converted into approximately 61 million shares of common stock, and there are also over 34 million warrants that we issued in connection with the convertible notes. In the event of conversion or exercise of these securities, as their conversion and exercise prices are less than the then current market price for our common stock, a stockholder will suffer substantial dilution of his, her or its investment in terms of the percentage ownership in us as well as the book value of the shares of common stock held. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends are expected to be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our operations. Our common stock are thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. . Our common stock has historically been sporadically or “thinly-traded” on the OTCBB, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common stock at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop on the Nasdaq Capital Market or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. 22 The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common stock are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our stockholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common stock are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or “risky” investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common stock will be at any time, including as to whether our common stock will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common stock for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. Volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management’s attention and resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal stockholders and affiliated entities. As of March 24, 2010, our management and their affiliated entities own approximately 59% of our outstanding common stock, representing approximately 59% of our voting power. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these stockholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our stockholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for stockholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as stockholders will be viewed favorably by all stockholders of the company. The elimination of liability of our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contains a provision that eliminates the liability of our directors to our company and stockholders to the extent allowed under Nevada law, and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Nevada law. We also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with some of our directors. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and stockholders. 23 Past company activities prior to the reverse merger may lead to future liability for the Company. Prior to the closing of the reverse merger transaction on October 20, 2006, we were engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Although certain prior Company stockholders have provided certain indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations and warranties made in connection with the Exchange Agreement, any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on the Company. The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in alternative energy and coal-based product markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other alternative energy and coal-based products companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · intellectual property litigation; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 24 Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of 165,462,494 shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 23, 2010, 33,094,417 shares were freely tradable without restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In this annual report on Form 10-K, we are reporting certain material weaknesses involving control activities, specifically: 1. Although during 2009 we hired additional accounting and operations personnel to ensure that accounting personnel with adequate experience, skills and knowledge relating to complex, non-routine transactions are directly involved in the review and accounting evaluation of our complex, non-routine transactions, we still lack expertise in US GAAP and taxation. 2. As a small company, we do not have sufficient personnel to set up adequate review function at each reporting level. 3. As of December 31, 2009, we have not kept a complete set of ledgers of the parent, shell company. The parent company has no physical operation and has been mainly functioning as a pass-through legal entity for financing subsidiary companies that are operating overseas. Our management ndertaken steps to address these issues, including the engagement of a chief financial officer whom management believes has the requisite financial reporting experience, skills and knowledge to complement our existing personnel. Additionally, four independent directors now sit on our board of directors, including a member who is appropriately credentialed as a financial expert. The independent directors have been tasked to establish certain internal audit functions within our company, and we have also established audit and compensation committees comprising entirely of independent directors. We have also hired additional accounting and operational personnel and in October, 2009, we engaged the Beijing office of Ernst & Young as outside consultant to assist with evaluating and improving accounting system and working process (including internal audit and material transaction review and verification process) to strengthen the timeliness and efficiency of our disclosure and internal controls and procedures. However, there is no assurance that additional remedial measures will not be necessary, or that after the remediation our management will be able to conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 25 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 