ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Any investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should consider carefully the specific risk factors described below in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in the report, before making a decision to invest in our common stock. If any of these risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline and a loss of all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. We commenced operations of our CWSF business in 2007. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the coal products and alternative energy industries in China. Our limited history for producing CWSF may not serve as an adequate basis to judge our future prospects and results of operations. Our operations are subject to all of the risks, challenges, complications and delays frequently encountered in connection with the operation of any new business, as well as those risks that are specific to the CWSF industry. Investors should evaluate us in light of the problems and uncertainties frequently encountered by companies attempting to develop markets for new products and technologies. Despite our best efforts, we may never overcome these obstacles. If we require additional financing to execute our business plan, we may not be able to find such financing on satisfactory terms or at all. Income generated from our business may not be adequate to support the expansion of our business. We may still need substantial additional funds to build new production facilities, maintain and expand existing facilities, pursue research and development activities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and market our business. While we may seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources, there are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we may need to reduce, defer or cancel any planned expansion, including overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. Furthermore, the failure to fund our capital requirements as they arise would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business and results of operations are dependent on the PRC coal markets, which may be cyclical. As our revenue is substantially derived from the sale of CWSF, our business and operating results are substantially dependent on the domestic supply of coal, especially washed coal. The PRC coal market is cyclical and exhibits fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year and is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, economic conditions in the PRC, global economic conditions, and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the utilities and steel industries. Fluctuations in supply and demand for coal affects coal prices which, in turn, may have an adverse effect on our operating and financial performance. The demand for coal is primarily affected by overall economic development and the demand for coal from the electricity generation, steel and construction industries. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographic location of the coal supplies, the volume of coal produced by domestic and international coal suppliers, and the quality and price of competing sources of coal. Alternative fuels such as natural gas and oil, alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power and nuclear power, and international shipping costs also impact the market demand for coal. Excess demand for coal may increase coal prices, which would have an adverse effect on our cost of goods sold which would, in turn, cause a short-term decline in our profitability if we are unable to increase the price of our CWSF to our customers. Local government may regulate residential winter heating price and thus causing our residential heating customers not be able to bear high CWSF price. As a result, we may not be able to increase our CWSF price in response to increased coal price or, we may have to decrease our CWSF price when we renew contracts with such customers. As a result, we may not able to keep our gross margin. The consumption of CWSF is seasonal in nature, and we may experience fluctuation in our sales of CWSF over the course of the year. The demand for CWSF from residential heating customers tends to be seasonal in nature, with peak demand occurring between the months of October through March, which are the peak heating periods in the markets which the Company currently serves. Demand for CWSF during peak periods is approximately 30% to 40% higher than during non-peak periods. Demand for CWSF from industrial customers tends to be fairly stable throughout the year, as their application of CWSF is often unrelated to heating. We may experience fluctuations in our sales of CWSF over the course of the year if the demand for CWSF from residential heating customers decreases due to unexpected warmer temperatures during the winter months. 24 We place significant reliance on few major suppliers and the loss of such supplier could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We are dependent upon our relationships with local third parties for our supply of coal. Two to six suppliers provided 100% of the coal we used to produce CWSF in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Tongchuan Mine and Shanxi Shenmu Zhengchang Coal Trading Company Business accounted for 30.16% and 25.68%, respectively, of our total coal supply in 2011. Tie Fa Coal Industry (Group) Co. Ltd. was the third largest supplier of the Company, supplying approximately 18.05% of total purchase of coal. While the Company is actively looking for more coal suppliers to diversify and avoid concentration risk, if any of these suppliers, and in particular our largest supplier, terminate their supply relationship with us, we may be unable to procure sufficient amounts of coal to fulfill our demand. If we are unable to obtain adequate quantities of coal to meet the demand for our CWSF product, our customers could seek to purchase products from other suppliers, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue. In the past, we have derived a significant portion of our sales from a few large customers. If we were to lose any such customers, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Historically, our customer base has been highly concentrated. As of December 31, 2011 we had a total of 35 customers, 29 of which were located in Shaanxi Province, one of which was located in Liaoning Province and 5 of which were located in Guangdong province. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, our five largest customers contributed 57%, 37% and 50% of our total revenue, respectively, while our largest customer contributed 14%, 14% and 20% of our total revenue, respectively. Our customers are still relatively concentrated, and any adverse developments to any one of their business operations and demand for CWSF could have an adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and prospects will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. We face competition in all areas of our business. There are other CWSF producers in other areas of China that may look to expand their business into our markets. Additionally, we must compete against producers of other forms of energy such as coal, natural gas and oil, which may have broader market acceptance. In 2010, we entered the Dongguan market in Guandong Province and we expect to enter Nanning City in Guangxi Province. We may be required to compete with other CWSF producers operating in these regions who may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and technological resources than we have, and more well-known brand names in the marketplace. If we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors, it may have a material adverse impact on our expansion plans and on our results of operations. We depend on our key executives, and our business and growth may be severely disrupted if we lose their services. Our future success depends substantially on the continued services of our key executives. In particular, we are highly dependent upon Mr. Baowen Ren, our chairman and chief executive officer, who has established relationships within the CWSF industry, and Mr. Peng Zhou, a member of our board of directors. If we lose the services of these executives, we may not be able to replace them readily, if at all, with suitable or qualified candidates, and may incur additional expenses to recruit and retain qualified candidates with industry experience similar to our current key executives, which could severely disrupt our business and growth. In addition, if any of our key executives joins a competitor or forms a competing company, we may lose some of our suppliers or customers. Furthermore, as we expect to continue to expand our operations and develop new products, we will need to continue attracting and retaining experienced management and key research and development personnel. We face competition of qualified personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for qualified candidates for executive positions could cause us to offer higher compensation and other benefits in order to attract and retain them, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may also be unable to attract or retain the personnel necessary to achieve our business objectives, and any failure in this regard could severely disrupt our business and growth. 25 Our business will suffer if we cannot obtain, maintain or renew necessary licenses. All PRC enterprises in the coal trading industry are required to obtain from various PRC governmental authorities certain licenses, including, without limitation, a Certificate of Coal Business and a business license. On July 5, 2010, we received the Certificate of Coal Business for Suo'ang New Energy, and on July 15, 2010, we received the Certificate of Coal Business for Shenyang Energy, both of which expire in 2013. Any failure to timely renew the required Certificates of Coal Business prior to expiration may subject us to various penalties, such as fines up to five times the illegal profits, confiscation of profits, or we may be required to cease our business operations. These licenses are subject to periodic renewal and/or reassessment by the relevant PRC government authorities and the standards of compliance required in relation thereto may from time to time be subject to change. We have such permits and licenses, however, we cannot be certain that we can obtain, maintain or renew the permits and licenses or in the future, accomplish the reassessment of such permits and licenses in a timely manner. Any changes in compliance standards, or any new laws or regulations may prohibit or render it more restrictive for us to conduct our business or increase our compliance costs, which may adversely affect our operations or profitability. Any failure by us to obtain, maintain or renew the licenses, permits and approvals, may have a material adverse effect on the operation of our business. In addition, we may not be able to carry on business without such permits and licenses being obtained, renewed and/or reassessed. We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance. Our manufacturing facilities may be affected by water, gas, fire or structural problems. As a result, we, like other coal-based products companies, may experience accidents that could cause property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities and provided on-the-job training for our employees, there can be no assurance that accidents will not occur in the future. Additionally, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of our product cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for resulting damages. Although we currently maintain fire, casualty and property insurance covering our two production lines in Shenyang, three production lines in Tongchuan and two production lines in Dongguan, we do not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims related to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties, other than third party liability insurance with respect to vehicles. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by us could exceed our resources and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to ensure our coal supply for normal production in the near future With the PRC government’s increasing concern on mine safety issues, particularly in light of several recent accidental explosions in coal mines (operated by other companies) due to inadequate safety measures, and the implementation of the State Council’s Regulation on Phase-out of Small Coal Mines, industry-wide coal mine safety inspections have been conducted in Shanxi province since 2011. During the course of these inspections, some coal mines in Shanxi have been shut down or temporarily closed for the safety assessment and remediation. These and any future interruptions to the coal mining companies (of which some could be the Company’s existing and potential suppliers), even though the effect might be temporary, could have a material effect on our financial results and operations. Moreover, additional new legislation or regulations may be adopted, or the enforcement of existing laws could become more stringent, either of which may have a significant impact on our coal supply and normal operations. Competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making CWSF obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from other alternative energy companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may be more effective and less costly than CWSF. Over time, CWSF may become obsolete or uncompetitive, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. The revenue of our business may be adversely affected if power generators switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions. China is a signatory to the 1992 United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the 1997 Kyoto Protocol, which are intended to limit emissions of greenhouse gases. Efforts to control greenhouse gas emission in China could result in reduced use of coal if power generators switch to sources of fuel with lower carbon dioxide emissions, which in turn could reduce the revenue of our business and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 The commercial success of CWSF depends on the degree of its market acceptance among industrial and residential heating customers and if CWSF does not attain wide market acceptance, our operations and profitability could be adversely affected. Despite the central government's push for clean-coal technology and the support for CWSF amongst a number of municipal governments, CWSF ultimately may not gain wide market acceptance in the PRC. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of its efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the product. Currently, there is limited information regarding these factors in connection with CWSF or competitive products. We believe that our customers need to continue to purchase and install CWSF boilers in order to give us the ability to market our CWSF products more broadly. The market for CWSF is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success remains uncertain. If CWSF is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for CWSF does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would not significantly increase and we may be unable to sustain profitability. In addition, demand for CWSF in the markets and geographic regions where we operate may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of CWSF and demand for our products, including: •cost-effectiveness of CWSF as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; •performance and reliability of CWSF as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; •fluctuations in capital expenditures by customers in the installation of CWSF boilers; and •availability of government subsidies and incentives for customers. Furthermore, to establish wide market acceptance of CWSF, we will require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities, as well as continuing governmental support for the use of CWSF. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, and our ability to influence governmental support is limited. If CWSF does not gain wide market acceptance, our ability to continue to grow may be limited. If we were unsuccessful in defending possible product liability claim, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if our product causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. We currently do not have product liability insurance. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of our product may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our product, our liability could exceed our total assets. In addition, successful product liability claims against us may materially disrupt the conduct of our business. The downturn in the global economy may slow domestic growth in China, which, in turn, may affect our business. China may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the decreased demand for China's exported goods in countries experiencing recessions. As we do not presently export any of our products, our earnings may become unstable if China's domestic growth slows significantly and the domestic demand for energy declines. 27 We are exposed to various types of market risks, including changes in foreign exchange rates, commodity prices and inflation in the normal course of business. We are subject to risks resulting from fluctuations in interest rates on our bank balances. A substantial portion of our cash is held in China in interest bearing bank deposits and is denominated in RMB. To the extent that we may need to raise debt financing in the future, upward fluctuations in interest rates will increase the cost of new debt. We do not currently use any derivative instruments to manage our interest rate risk. Certain raw materials used by us are subject to price volatility caused by supply conditions, political and economic variables and other unpredictable factors. The primary purpose of our commodity price management activities is to manage the volatility associated with purchases of commodities in the normal course of business. We do not speculate on commodity prices. We are primarily exposed to price risk related to our purchase of coal used in manufacturing products. We purchase most of our raw materials at prevailing market prices. We do not have formal long-term purchase contracts with our suppliers and, therefore, we are exposed to the risk of fluctuating raw material prices. Our raw material price risk increases in the short term if we are unable to increase the price of CWSF. We did not have any commodity price derivatives or hedging arrangements outstanding at December 31, 2011. We carry out all of our transactions in Renminbi. Therefore, we have limited exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. A substantial portion of our cash is held in China in interest bearing bank deposits and is denominated in RMB. The Renminbi is not a freely convertible currency. The PRC government may take actions that could cause future exchange rates to vary significantly from current or historical exchange rates. Fluctuations in exchange rates may adversely affect the value of any dividends we declare. In recent years, China has not experienced significant inflation or deflation and thus inflation and deflation have not had a significant effect on our business during the past three years. According to the National Bureau of Statistics of China, the inflation rate as measured by the consumer price index in China was 5.4% and 4.6% in 2011 and 2010, respectively. 28 Risks Related to the Alternative Energy Industry A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or other alternative energy may have a negative effect on our business. A customer's decision to purchase CWSF will be primarily driven by the return on investment resulting from the energy savings from CWSF over time. Any fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and other alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels could cause the demand for CWSF to decline and have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Although we believe that current levels of retail energy prices support a reasonable return on investment for CWSF, there can be no assurance that future retail pricing of conventional energy and other alternative energies will remain at such levels. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of CWSF, which may significantly affect the demand for our products. CWSF is subject to oversight and regulations in accordance with national and local ordinances and regulations relating to safety, environmental protection, and related matters. We are responsible for knowing such ordinances and regulations, and must comply with these varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our product may result in significant additional expenses to us and our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our product. Risks Related to Doing Business in China Our business operations are conducted entirely in the PRC. Because China's economy and its laws, regulations and policies are different from those typically found in western countries and are continually changing, we face risks specific to operating in China, including those summarized below. Adverse changes in political and economic policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could materially and adversely affect our business. All of our operations are conducted in China and all of our sales are made in China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects are affected significantly by economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most western countries in many respects, including: •the amount of government involvement; •the level of development; •the growth rate; •the control of foreign exchange; and •the government's role in allocating resources. While the PRC economy has grown significantly since the late 1970s, the growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic growth and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. The PRC economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy and is expected to continue to reform its economic system. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Although the PRC government has in recent years implemented measures emphasizing the utilization of market forces for economic reform, the reduction of state ownership of productive assets and the establishment of sound corporate governance in business enterprises, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over economic growth in China through the allocation of resources, controlling payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Efforts by the PRC government to slow the pace of growth of the PRC economy could result in decreased capital expenditure by energy users, which in turn could reduce demand for our products. 29 Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of reform measures, which may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China, such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of energy investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for our products and consequently have a material adverse effect on our business and prospects. The PRC economic cycle may negatively impact our operating results. The rapid growth of the PRC economy before 2008 generally led to higher levels of inflation. The PRC economy has more recently experienced a slowing of its growth rate. A number of factors have contributed to this slow-down, including appreciation of RMB, the currency of China, which has adversely affected China's exports. In addition, the slow-down has been exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in significant volatility and dislocation in the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and the significance of the adverse impact it may have on the global economy in general, or the Chinese economy in particular. Slowing economic growth in China could result in slowing growth and demand for our products which could reduce our revenue. In the event of a recovery in the PRC, renewed high growth levels may again lead to inflation. Government attempts to control inflation may adversely affect the business climate and growth of private enterprise. In addition, our profitability may be adversely affected if prices for our products rise at a rate that is insufficient to compensate for the rise in inflation. As stated in Shanghai Daily on June 23, 2011, “China is tightening its monetary policy to curb credit-driven inflation. Since October 2010, China has raised interest rates four times and raised the reserve requirement ratio nine times.” and on June 14, 2011, “New Yuan loans totaled 3.6 trillion Yuan in the first five months of this year, down 12 percent from the same period last year.” The tightening of credit controls in China has led to a cool down in the large demand for capital by corporations in China. We have considered the influence of the economic environment on our operation and development and concluded there is no material effect for our operation in the coming twelve months. As at February 29, 2012, our all outstanding net accounts receivables (as of December 31, 2011) had been collected. So there was no need to accrue bad debt allowance for accounts receivable as at December 31, 2011. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. Since 1979, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in the PRC. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Even where adequate law exists, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of the PRC's judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation, and interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of any such policies and rules until sometime after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. The application of PRC laws regarding the regulation of monopolies may adversely affect us. We have a nationwide strategic partnership agreement with Qingdao Haizhong Enterprise Co., Ltd. ("Haizhong Boiler"), a CWSF boiler manufacturer with an estimated 78% share of the national CWSF boiler market. According to Beijing ZhongjingZhongheng Information and Consulting Center, Haizhong Boiler's market share was determined on December 30, 2009. In accordance with this partnership agreement, we and Haizhong Boiler have each agreed to recommend to our respective customers the other party's products during the course of selling our own products. Under the PRC Anti-monopoly Law promulgated on August 30, 2007 and effective as of August 1, 2008, business operators with a dominant market position are prohibited from certain behavior that abuses their dominant market position, including among other things, (i) limiting another party to the transaction to trade exclusively with them or with their designated business operators without justification and (ii) implementing tie-in sales without justification, or imposing other supplementary unreasonable trading conditions in the transaction. If our strategic partnership agreement with Haizhong Boiler or the implementation of such agreement is deemed a violation of the anti-monopoly law, the anti-monopoly administration authority may order us to cease the conduct, confiscate our proceeds and impose a fine of 1% to 10% of the sales volume for the previous year. As a result, our business, results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. 30 The failure to comply with PRC regulations relating to mergers and acquisitions of domestic enterprises by offshore special purpose vehicles may subject us to severe fines or penalties and create other regulatory uncertainties regarding our corporate structure. On August 8, 2006, the PRC Ministry of Commerce ("MOFCOM"), joined by the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the "CSRC"), the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (the "SASAC"), the State Administration of Taxation (the "SAT"), the State Administration for Industry and Commerce (the "SAIC"), and the State Administration of Foreign Exchange ("SAFE"), jointly promulgated regulations entitled the Provisions Regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors (the "M&A Rules"), which took effect as of September 8, 2006. This regulation, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles ("SPVs") formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of MOFCOM prior to engaging in such acquisitions and to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to publicly listing their securities on an overseas stock market. On September 21, 2006, the CSRC published on its official website a notice specifying the documents and materials that are required to be submitted for obtaining CSRC approval. The application of the M&A Rules with respect to our corporate structure and to this offering remains unclear, with no current consensus existing among leading PRC law firms regarding the scope and applicability of the M&A Rules. We believe that the MOFCOM and CSRC approvals under the M&A Rules were not required in the context of our share exchange transaction because at such time the share exchange was a foreign related transaction governed by foreign laws, not subject to the jurisdiction of PRC laws and regulations. However, we cannot be certain that the relevant PRC government agencies, including the CSRC and MOFCOM, would reach the same conclusion, and we cannot be certain that MOFCOM or the CSRC may deem that the transactions effected by the share exchange circumvented the M&A Rules, and other rules and notices, and that prior MOFCOM or CSRC approval is required for this offering. Further, we cannot rule out the possibility that the relevant PRC government agencies, including MOFCOM, would deem that the M&A Rules required us or our entities in China to obtain approval from MOFCOM or other PRC regulatory agencies in connection with (i) the equity transfer agreements, which were completed by and among Suoke Clean Energy, Peng Zhou and Suo'ang BST in November 2009, pursuant to which Suo'ang New Energy was acquired by Suoke Clean Energy and (ii) Hangson's control of Suo'ang New Energy during the period from June 2006 to September 2009 through contractual arrangements with Suo'ang BST and Peng Zhou's holding of a 20% equity interest in Suo'ang New Energy. If the CSRC, MOFCOM, or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that CSRC, MOFCOM or other approval was required for the share exchange transaction and/ or the acquisition of Suo'ang New Energy, or if prior CSRC approval for this offering is required and not obtained, we may face severe regulatory actions or other sanctions from MOFCOM, the CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies. In such event, these regulatory agencies may impose fines or other penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the repatriation of the proceeds from this offering into the PRC, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. The CSRC or other PRC regulatory agencies may also take actions requiring us, or making it advisable for us, to delay or cancel this offering, to restructure our current corporate structure, or to seek regulatory approvals that may be difficult or costly to obtain. The M&A Rules, along with certain foreign exchange regulations discussed below, will be interpreted or implemented by the relevant government authorities in connection with our future offshore financings or acquisitions, and we cannot predict how they will affect our acquisition strategy. For example, our operating companies' ability to remit dividends to us, or to engage in foreign-currency-denominated borrowings, may be conditioned upon compliance with the SAFE registration requirements by such Chinese domestic residents, over whom we may have no control. 31 SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burdens and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications, registrations and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. SAFE has promulgated several regulations, including Notice on Relevant Issues Concerning Foreign Exchange Administration for PRC Residents to Engage in Financing and Inbound Investment via Oversea Special Purpose Vehicles, or "Circular No. 75," issued on October 21, 2005 and effective as of November 1, 2005 and certain implementation rules issued in recent years, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents and PRC corporate entities. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents, and may affect any offshore acquisitions that we make in the future. SAFE Circular No. 75 requires PRC residents to register with the local SAFE branch before establishing or controlling any company outside of China for the purpose of capital financing with assets or equities of PRC companies, referred to in the notice as an "offshore special purpose company." In addition, any PRC resident who is a direct or indirect shareholder of an offshore company is required to update his registration with the relevant SAFE branches, with respect to that offshore company, in connection with any material change involving an increase or decrease of capital, transfer or swap of shares, merger, division, equity or debt investment or creation of any security interest. Moreover, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore company are required to coordinate and supervise the filing of SAFE registrations by the offshore company's shareholders who are PRC residents in a timely manner. If a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of such offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries, and the offshore parent company may also be prohibited from injecting additional capital into its PRC subsidiaries. Furthermore, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above may result in liability for the PRC shareholders and the PRC subsidiaries under PRC law for foreign exchange registration evasion. Although we have requested our PRC shareholders and beneficial owners to complete the SAFE Circular No. 75 registration, we cannot be certain that all of our PRC resident beneficial owners will comply with the SAFE regulations. The failure or inability of our PRC shareholders and beneficial owners to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, prevent us from transferring the net proceeds of this offering or making other capital injection into our PRC subsidiaries, limit our PRC subsidiaries' ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. Under Operating Rules on the Foreign Exchange Administration of the Involvement of Domestic Individuals in the Employee Stock Ownership Plans and Share Option Schemes of Overseas Listed Companies, issued and effective as of March 28, 2007 by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or "SAFE" ("Circular No. 78"), PRC residents who are granted shares or share options by an overseas listed company according to its employee share option or share incentive plan are required to obtain approval from and register with the SAFE or its local branches and complete certain other procedures related to the share option or other share incentive plan through the PRC subsidiary of such overseas listed company or any other qualified PRC agent before such grants are made. We believe that all of our PRC employees who are granted share options are subject to SAFE No. 78. As of December 31, 2010, we had granted options to purchase up to 15,000 shares of common stock to two PRC residents. We have requested our PRC management, personnel, directors, employees and consultants who have been granted or are to be granted stock options to register them with local SAFE pursuant to Circular No. 78. However, we cannot assure you that each of these individuals has carried out or will carry out all the required procedures above. If we or our PRC option holders fail to comply with these regulations, we or our PRC option holders may be subject to fines and legal sanctions. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion and we may become subject to a more stringent review and approval process with respect to our foreign exchange activities. 32 We must comply with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We are required to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which prohibits U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Foreign companies, including some of our competitors, are not subject to these prohibitions. Certain of our customers are PRC government entities and our dealings with them are likely to be considered to be with government officials for these purposes. Corruption, extortion, bribery, pay-offs, theft and other fraudulent practices occur from time-to-time in the PRC. If our competitors engage in these practices, they may receive preferential treatment from personnel of some companies, giving our competitors an advantage in securing business or from government officials who might give them priority in obtaining new licenses, which would put us at a disadvantage. We could suffer severe penalties if our employees or other agents were found to have engaged in such practices. Under the PRC EIT Law, we and/or Wiscon may be classified as a "resident enterprise" of the PRC. Such classification could result in tax consequences to us, our non-PRC resident investors and/or Wiscon. On March 16, 2007, the National People's Congress approved and promulgated a new tax law, the PRC Enterprise Income Tax Law (the "EIT Law") which took effect on January 1, 2008. Under the EIT Law, enterprises are classified as resident enterprises and non-resident enterprises. An enterprise established outside of China with "de facto management bodies" within China is considered a "resident enterprise," meaning that it can be treated in a manner similar to a Chinese enterprise for enterprise income tax purposes. The implementing rules of the EIT Law define "de facto management bodies" as a managing body that in practice exercises "substantial and overall management and control over the production and operations, personnel, accounting, and properties" of the enterprise; however, it remains unclear whether the PRC tax authorities would deem our de facto managing body as being located within China. Due to the short history of the EIT Law and lack of applicable legal precedents, the PRC tax authorities determine the PRC tax resident treatment of a foreign (non-PRC) company on a case-by-case basis. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we and/or Wiscon are a "resident enterprise" for PRC enterprise income tax purposes, a number of PRC tax consequences could follow. First, we and/or Wiscon may be subject to the enterprise income tax at a rate of 25% on our and/or Wiscon's worldwide taxable income, in addition to our PRC enterprise income tax reporting obligations. Second, under the EIT Law and its implementing rules, dividends paid between "qualified resident enterprises" are exempt from enterprise income tax. As a result, if we and Wiscon are treated as PRC "qualified resident enterprises," all dividends from Suoke Clean Energy to us (through Wiscon) should be exempt from PRC tax. If Wiscon were treated as a PRC "non-resident enterprise" under the EIT Law, then dividends that Wiscon receives from Suoke Clean Energy (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) (i) may be subject to a 5% PRC withholding tax, provided that Wiscon owns more than 25% of the registered capital of Suoke Clean Energy continuously within 12 months immediately prior to obtaining such dividend from Suoke Clean Energy, and the Arrangement between the Mainland of China and the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region for the Avoidance of Double Taxation and the Prevention of Fiscal Evasion with Respect to Taxes on Income (the "PRC-Hong Kong Tax Treaty") were otherwise applicable, or (ii) if such treaty does not apply (i.e. because the PRC tax authorities may deem Wiscon to be a conduit not entitled to treaty benefits), may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Similarly, if we were treated as a PRC "non-resident enterprise" under the EIT Law and Wiscon were treated as a PRC "resident enterprise" under the EIT Law, then dividends that we receive from Wiscon (assuming such dividends were considered sourced within the PRC) may be subject to a 10% PRC withholding tax. Any such taxes on dividends could materially reduce the amount of dividends, if any, we could pay to our shareholders. Finally, if we are determined to be a "resident enterprise" under the EIT law, this could result in a situation in which (i) a 10% PRC enterprise income tax is imposed on dividends we pay to our investors that are not tax residents of the PRC ("non-resident investors") and that are enterprises (but not individuals) and gains derived by them from transferring our common stock, or (ii) up to a 20% PRC individual income tax is imposed on dividends that we pay to our non-resident investors who are individuals and gains derived by them from transferring our common stock, in each case if such income or gain is considered PRC-sourced income by the relevant PRC authorities. In such event, we may be required to withhold the applicable PRC tax on any dividends paid to our non-resident investors. Our non-resident investors also may be responsible for paying the applicable PRC tax on any gains realized from the sale or transfer of our common stock in certain circumstances. We would not, however, have an obligation to withhold PRC tax with respect to such gain under the PRC tax laws. 33 The SAT released Circular Guoshuihan No. 698 ("Circular 698") on December 10, 2009, which reinforces the taxation of certain equity transfers by non-resident investors through overseas holding vehicles. Circular 698 addresses indirect equity transfers as well as other issues. Circular 698 is retroactively effective from January 1, 2008. According to Circular 698, where a non-resident investor who indirectly holds an equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise through a non-PRC offshore holding company indirectly transfers an equity interest in a PRC resident enterprise by selling the equity interest in the offshore holding company, and the latter is located in a country or jurisdiction where the actual tax burden is less than 12.5 percent or where the offshore income of its residents is not taxable, the non-resident investor is required to provide the PRC tax authority in charge of that PRC resident enterprise with certain relevant information within 30 days from the date of execution of the transfer agreements. The responsible tax authorities will evaluate the offshore transaction for tax purposes. In the event that the PRC tax authorities determine that such transfer is an abuse of forms of business organization and a reasonable commercial purpose for the offshore holding company other than the avoidance of PRC income tax liability is lacking, the PRC tax authorities will have the power to re-assess the nature of the equity transfer under the doctrine of substance over form. If the SAT's challenge of a transfer is successful, it may deny the existence of the offshore holding company that is used for tax planning purposes and subject the non-resident investor to PRC tax on the capital gain from such transfer. Since Circular 698 has a short history, there is uncertainty as to its application. We (or a non-resident investor) may become at risk of being taxed under Circular 698 and may be required to expend valuable resources to comply with Circular 698 or to establish that we (or such non-resident investor) should not be taxed under Circular 698, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations (or such non-resident investor's investment in us). If any such PRC income tax applies to a non-resident investor, the non-resident investor may be entitled to a reduced rate of PRC tax under an applicable income tax treaty and/or a deduction for such PRC tax against such investor's domestic taxable income or a foreign tax credit in respect of such PRC tax against such investor's domestic income tax liability (subject to applicable conditions and limitations). Prospective investors should consult with their own tax advisors regarding the applicability of any such taxes, the effects of any applicable income tax treaties, and any available deductions or foreign tax credits. For a further discussion of these issues, see the section captioned "PRC Income Tax Considerations." The payment of dividends in the PRC is subject to limitations. We may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. We conduct all of our business through our subsidiaries incorporated in the PRC. We rely on dividends paid by these consolidated subsidiaries for our cash needs, including the funds necessary to pay any dividends and other cash distributions to our stockholders, to service any debt we may incur and to pay our operating expenses. The payment of dividends by entities established in the PRC is subject to limitations. Regulations in the PRC currently permit payment of dividends only out of accumulated profits as determined in accordance with accounting standards and regulations in the PRC, subject to certain statutory procedural requirements. Each of our PRC subsidiaries, including wholly foreign owned enterprises, is also required to set aside at least 10% of their after-tax profit based on PRC accounting standards each year to their general reserves or statutory reserve fund until the aggregate amount of such reserves reaches 50% of their respective registered capital. Our statutory reserves are not distributable as loans, advances or cash dividends. In addition, if any of our PRC subsidiaries incurs debt on its own behalf in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict its ability to pay dividends or make other distributions to us. Any limitations on the ability of our PRC subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. 34 You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us and our management. All of the assets of Suoke Clean Energy, Suo'ang New Energy and Shenyang Energy are located in, and all of our executive officers and our directors reside within, China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers and directors who do not reside in the United States, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, our public stockholders may have substantial difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors that stockholders of a corporation with assets and management members located in the United States would not experience. Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive all of our revenue in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, dividend payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from SAFE by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. Since 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People's Bank of China ("PBOC"), which are set daily based on the previous day's PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars has generally been stable. On July 21, 2005, however, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system. Under the reform, RMB is no longer effectively linked to U.S. dollars but instead is allowed to trade in a tight 0.3% band against a basket of foreign currencies. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB. Any significant fluctuation in value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. We have not made statutory contributions to the public housing fund for our employees in accordance with applicable regulations, and this could subject us to fines and other penalties. Although the PRC State Council has regulations governing a company's contribution to the public housing fund for its employees, we had not been expressly required by our local government authority in charge of this matter to make such contribution due to lack of implementing rules. In 2009, the Tongchuan Public Housing Fund Management Center, the local government department in charge of public housing fund matters, issued a notification which requires companies like us to make contributions to the local public housing fund for our employees. In August 2011, we registered to apply for the local public housing fund account but it still has not been approved by the local Public Housing Fund Management Center as of December 31, 2011. We will begin to make statutory contributions for our employees to such account once it is open. However, we cannot assure that the Tongchuan Public Housing Fund Management Center will not penalize us for non-compliance with the regulation promulgated by the State Council prior to 2010. If the relevant local public housing fund administrative centre takes any legal action against us for our non-compliance with such regulation, such as fines, or the requirement of making up contributions to the public housing fund for our employees, our financial conditions and results of operations may be adversely affected. 35 We currently operate our business in buildings we have constructed on land where we own or lease the land use right. Failure to have the legitimate and sustainable right to own or lease the buildings or the land use right could have a material adverse effect on our operations. We own the land use right to a total of 43,956 square meters of land for our existing site in Tongchuan for a period of 50 years, expiring on December 8, 2057. However, we have not yet paid the required land grant fees and other taxes and fees. If we fail to pay the land grant fees and other requisite taxes and fees, the applicable land administration authority may rescind our land grant contract, ask for compensation for the violation of the contract, or revoke our Land Use Right Certificate. Any penalty or revocation of the Land Use Right Certificate could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. For the operation of Suo'ang New Energy, on the land for which we lease the Land Use Right Certificate, we constructed a building according to our construction land use planning permit; however, we did not obtain other required construction project permits and other documents, including construction project planning permits, construction commencement permits and fire prevention design and inspection related documents. Upon completion of construction, we did not apply for the required inspection and acceptance examination of the building, and consequently, we did not obtain the Property Ownership Certificate. If we fail to obtain the required construction related permits and other documents, complete the inspection and acceptance examination of the building and obtain the Property Ownership Certificate, the applicable construction authority may impose a fine of up to 10% of the construction costs, or in limited circumstances, order the demolition of the building. Any penalty or request to demolish the building could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operation and financial condition. Our principal executive and administrative offices are located in Xi'an City, Shaanxi Province, China, with approximately 233 square meters of office space. Through Suoke Clean Energy, we entered into a real property purchase agreement with Xi'an Shengrong Real Estate Co., Ltd., dated January 12, 2010 to purchase this office space, for a purchase price of RMB1,586,798 (approximately $230,000). Xi'an Shengrong Real Estate Co., Ltd. has been granted the land use right to the property on which the building is located until June 19, 2052. We have settled all payment in November 2011, and we have applied for the transfer of this office's title to Suoke Clean Energy, but the title transfer process has not yet been completed as at December 31, 2011. As a result, Suoke Clean Energy is not a legal owner of this office until title to the office has been duly transferred to Suoke Clean Energy. As our registered address is not in Xi'an City, we are required to register as a branch office in Xi'an City. 36 Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities The full exercise of our outstanding warrants could result in substantially depressing the prevailing market prices for our common stock. The full exercise of outstanding warrants could result in the substantial dilution of our common stock in terms of a particular percentage ownership in the company as well as the book value of common stock. The sale of a large amount of common stock received upon the exercise of the warrants on the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could substantially depress the prevailing market prices for our common stock. As of December 31, 2011, there were 2,476,647 warrants outstanding from the financings that closed in September 2008 and July 2009. In the event of the exercise of these warrants, a stockholder will suffer substantial dilution of his, her or its investment in terms of the percentage ownership in us as well as the book value of the shares of common stock held. To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends are expected to be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We currently intend to retain all earnings for our operations. Volatility in our common stock price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation, which could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal stockholders and affiliated entities. Our management, directors and their affiliated entities own approximately 3,458,136 of our outstanding common stock, representing approximately 14.43% of our voting power. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these stockholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our stockholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for stockholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as stockholders will be viewed favorably by all stockholders of the company. The elimination of liability of our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contains a provision that eliminates the liability of our directors to our company and stockholders to the extent allowed under Nevada law, and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Nevada law. We also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with some of our directors. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our stockholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and stockholders. 37 The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: •actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; •changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; •conditions in alternative energy and coal-based product markets; •changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other alternative energy and coal-based products companies; •announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; •additions or departures of key personnel; •intellectual property litigation; and •general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional common stock or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our stockholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents and anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to our business expansion plans, changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of equity securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. 38 Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144 promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may freely sell their shares after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may freely sell their shares after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of 23,863,701 shares of our common stock outstanding as of December 31, 2011, 20,272,408 shares are freely tradable without restriction. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company's internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. We reported certain significant deficiencies involving control activities. These deficiencies may impact the reliability of our financial statements and prevent us from complying with SEC rules and regulations and the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, financial statement close, disclosure, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, the deficiencies in internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that considerable cost would be incurred and significant management time and other resources would be occupied to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. 39 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 