Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Nasdaq. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or operating results could be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Our high leverage limits our financial flexibility. We have a significant amount of debt. Our indebtedness as of December 31, 2006 was approximately $1.5 billion and we may borrow up to an additional $75.0 million under our revolver and up to an additional $400 million under our swingline facility, subject to meeting certain conditions. This significant leverage may: • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for refinancing indebtedness, acquisitions, working capital, capital expenditures, or other purposes; • reduce funds available to us for our operations and general corporate purposes or for capital expenditures as a result of the dedication of a substantial portion of our consolidated cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared with our competitors with less debt; • increase our vulnerability to a downturn in general economic conditions; and • curtail our flexibility to respond to changing economic or competitive conditions or to make acquisitions. Our significant debt resulted in the downgrading of our credit rating by Moody’s and by Standard & Poor’s in the second quarter of 2006. In addition, on November 28, 2006, as a result of the significant debt we would have incurred in connection with our lapsed offers for the remaining LSE share capital, Standard & Poor’s cut our long-term counterparty credit rating to BB from BB+. In addition, we must comply with the covenants in our credit facilities. Among other things, these covenants restrict our ability to grant liens, incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends, sell assets, make certain payments, conduct transactions with affiliates and merge or consolidate. Failure to meet any of the covenant terms of our credit facilities could result in an event of default. If an event of default occurs, and we are unable to receive a waiver of default, our lenders may increase our borrowing costs, restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings, accelerate all amounts outstanding or enforce their interest against all collateral pledged. The Exchange’s convertible notes also contain a covenant restricting our ability to incur debt senior to the convertible notes and as a consequence of the current debt outstanding under our credit facilities, the Exchange’s convertible notes would not permit us to incur additional debt senior to the convertible notes. Future acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures may require significant resources and/or result in significant unanticipated losses, costs or liabilities. Over the past three years, acquisitions, including the acquisitions of INET ECN and Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC (formerly Brut, LLC), have been a significant factor in our growth. Although we cannot predict our rate of growth as a result of acquisitions, we believe that additional acquisitions or entering into partnership and joint ventures are important to our growth strategy. Many of the other potential purchasers of assets in our industry have greater financial resources than we have. Therefore, we cannot be sure that we will be able to complete future acquisitions on terms favorable to us. We may finance future acquisitions by issuing additional equity and/or debt. The issuance of additional equity in connection with any transaction could be substantially dilutive to existing stockholders. The issuance of additional debt could increase our leverage substantially. In addition, announcement or implementation of future transactions by us or others could have a material effect on the price of our stock. We could face financial risks associated with incurring additional debt, particularly if the debt resulted in significant incremental leverage. Additional debt may reduce our liquidity, curtail our access to financing markets, impact our standing with the credit agencies and increase the cash flow required for debt service. Any incremental debt incurred to finance an acquisition could also place significant constraints on the operation of our business. We may not be able to meet those restrictions. 23 Table of Contents These equity, debt and managerial commitments may impair the operation of our businesses. Furthermore, any future acquisitions of businesses or facilities could entail a number of additional risks, including: • problems with effective integration of operations; • the inability to maintain key pre-acquisition business relationships; • increased operating costs; • the diversion of our management team from our other operations; • problems with regulatory bodies; • exposure to unanticipated liabilities; • difficulties in realizing projected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; • possible tax costs or inefficiencies associated with a future acquisition, including overpaying for a future acquisition; and • changes in our credit rating and financing costs. We must continue to invest in our operations to integrate prior transactions and to maintain and grow our business, and we may need additional funds to do so. We depend on the availability of adequate capital to maintain and develop our business. We believe that we can meet our current capital requirements from internally generated funds, cash on hand and available borrowings. However, if we are unable to fund our capital requirements as currently planned, there would be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Should we need to raise funds through incurring additional debt, we may become subject to covenants even more restrictive than those contained in our current debt instruments. Furthermore, if we issue additional equity our equity holders may suffer dilution. There can be no assurance that additional capital will be available on a timely basis, on favorable terms or at all. We face significant competition in our business. The securities trading business is highly competitive. We face competition from numerous entities in the securities trading industry, including competition for listings and trading services from other exchanges and market centers. Such competition also includes pricing competition. In addition, competition could increase as a result of the registration of new exchanges in the United States, Regulation NMS and globalization in the industry. The following factors are some of the risks associated with competition that may affect our business and results of operations: Price competition has affected and could continue to affect our business. The securities trading industry is characterized by intense price competition. We have in the past lowered prices and increased rebates to attempt to gain market share. These strategies have not always been successful and have at times hurt operating performance. Additionally, we have also been, and may once again be, required to adjust pricing to respond to actions by competitors, which has adversely impacted operating results. We have recently taken steps to rationalize our pricing. This rationalization of our pricing may adversely affect our market share. Price competition with respect to market data rebates or our program relating to sharing revenues associated with trading Nasdaq-listed securities could attract trading volume away from us, leading to loss of market share and decreased revenues. 24 Table of Contents Globalization, growth, consolidations and other strategic arrangements may impair our competitive position. The liberalization and globalization of world markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in local markets and more competition among markets in different geographical areas. As a result, the competition among U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based markets and other execution venues has become more intense. In addition, in the last several years, the structure of the securities industry has changed significantly through demutualizations and consolidations. In response to growing competition, many marketplaces in both Europe and the United States have demutualized to provide greater flexibility for future growth. The securities industry is also experiencing consolidation, creating a more intense competitive environment. Also, a high proportion of business in the securities market is becoming increasingly concentrated in a smaller number of institutions and our revenue may therefore become concentrated in a smaller number of customers. We face competition from new competitors in the securities trading industry. Examples of these new competitors include: • The Boston Stock Exchange, Inc., the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc, the National Stock Exchange and the International Securities Exchange have all recently entered into investment agreements with other participants in the securities industry, with the objective of enabling them to better compete with other exchanges; • Knight Capital Group, Inc., a market maker in Nasdaq-listed securities, has acquired Attain ECN, a Nasdaq competitor now operating as Direct Edge; • TradeBot Systems launched the BATS ECN; • Citigroup Inc. announced plans to launch its own electronic stock-trading network from its acquisition of OnTrade Inc., an ECN previously operated by NexTrade Holdings Inc.; • NYSE’s potential entry in trading Nasdaq-listed securities; • ISE began trading cash equities; and • Philadelphia Stock Exchange recently began trading Nasdaq-listed securities. Because of these market trends, we face intense competition. If we are unable to compete successfully in this environment, our business, financial condition and operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, we believe Regulation NMS may enhance competition in Nasdaq-listed securities from these or other new competitors. Additionally, new ECNs may develop trading platforms that are more competitive than ours. Finally, there has been increased use of electronic trading systems specializing in large volume trades, such as LiquidNet, Pipeline Trading and Investment Technology Group’s POSIT platform, which may divert trading volume from The Nasdaq Market Center. If these or other trading venues are successful, our business, financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. Also, our trade reporting facility (which we operate jointly with the NASD for the purpose of accepting reports of off-exchange trades) faces competition from the trade reporting facilities operated jointly with NASD by the National Stock Exchange, and soon, the Boston Stock Exchange and NYSE. Recent mergers and acquisitions activity of NYSE. The recent merger of NYSE and Archipelago as well as the NYSE’s announced merger with Euronext will create strong competition for us, particularly if NYSE is able to create its own electronic trading platform or migrate its trading business to Archipelago’s platform and if NYSE is able to attract new overseas listings. NYSE 25 Table of Contents is developing electronic trading capabilities that will compete directly with ours. In addition, the merger with Archipelago has given NYSE access to ArcaEx’s electronic systems. If NYSE’s trading volume increases to our detriment as a result of the merger with Archipelago, it would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, the proposed merger of NYSE and Euronext could result in a stronger competitor for us than NYSE and Euronext as stand-alone businesses. If the NYSE/Euronext merger is consummated and they are able to compete for additional overseas listings to our detriment, it would have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. We face significant competition in our securities trading business, which could reduce our transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues and negatively impact our financial results. We compete for trading of Nasdaq-, NYSE- and Amex-listed securities. Any decision by market participants to quote, execute or report trades through exchanges, ECNs or the Alternative Display Facility maintained by NASD could have a negative impact on our share of quotes and trades in securities traded through The Nasdaq Market Center. Any reduction in our share of trades or quotes would reduce our share of tape revenue from the UTP and CTA plans under Regulation NMS and could reduce the value of our proprietary data products. While we trade a large percentage of securities of Nasdaq-listed companies, we face strong competition from other exchanges and emerging players in the market. For non-Nasdaq-listed securities, the other national exchanges offer significant level of liquidity in many non-Nasdaq-listed securities. Accordingly, we face major obstacles in continuing to grow our trading volume in non-Nasdaq-listed securities. Our responses to competition may not be sufficient to regain lost business or prevent other market participants from shifting some of their quoting and/or trade reporting to other industry participants. We may need to reduce prices to remain competitive. Our inability to compete for transactions, trade reporting and market information revenues could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must adapt to significant competition in our listing businesses. We face significant competition in our listing businesses from other exchanges. Historically, NYSE has been our largest competitor, and we have competed with NYSE primarily for listings of larger domestic and international companies. In addition, on occasion, issuers may transfer their listings from us to other venues. Significant transfers could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. Our revenues may be affected by competition in the business for financial products. We continue to develop our financial products business, which creates indexes and licenses them for Nasdaq-branded financial products. Nasdaq-sponsored financial products are subject to intense competition from other ETFs, derivatives and structured products as investment alternatives. Our revenues may be adversely affected by increasing competition from competitors’ financial products designed to replicate or correlate with the performance of our financial products. In addition, the legal and regulatory climate, which supports the licensing of these financial products, has changed in a manner which is likely to adversely impact our ability to successfully license our products. In September 2005, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York dismissed actions brought by McGraw-Hill and Dow Jones against an options market that threatened to trade options on ETFs without a license. This dismissal was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in June 2006. The Second Circuit ruled that markets, in facilitating the trading of options on ETFs, are not misappropriating any intellectual property right of index providers. Further, many other entrants have recently emerged who not only compete with us for future growth opportunities, but who may also introduce products that erode the position of our current offerings, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition and operating results. A decrease in trading volume will decrease our trading revenues. Trading volume is directly affected by economic and political conditions, broad trends in business and finance, changes in price levels of securities and the overall level of investor confidence. Weak economic 26 Table of Contents conditions or a reduction in securities prices could result in a decline in trading volume. A decline in trading volume would lower revenues and may adversely affect our operating results. We are particularly affected by declines in trading volume in technology-related securities because a significant portion of our customers trade in these types of securities and a large number of the companies listed on The Nasdaq Stock Market are in the technology sector. In addition, investor confidence and trader interest, and thus trading volume, can be affected by factors outside our control, such as the publicity surrounding investigations and prosecutions for corporate governance or accounting irregularities at public companies. Declines in the initial public offering market have an adverse effect on our revenues. Stagnation or decline in the initial public offering market will impact the number of new listings on The Nasdaq Stock Market, and thus our related revenues. We recognize revenue from new listings on a straight-line basis over an estimated six-year service period. As a result of the decline in the IPO market from 2000-2002, our deferred revenue associated with those years will be lower than our deferred revenue associated with the periods from 2003 to the present. Losses in listings could cause a reduction in revenues. While the reduction in initial listings or the loss of one or more large issuers could decrease listing revenues, it could cause an even more significant decrease in revenues from the quoting, reporting and trading of those issuers’ securities. If the combined NYSE/Euronext is successful in competing with us for core listings, we would lose not only the listing fees associated with those companies, but also a substantial amount of the trade execution fees generated by trading in those companies’ securities. We may experience fluctuations in our operating results. The financial services industry is risky and unpredictable and is directly affected by many national and international factors beyond our control. Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results by causing a substantial decline in the financial services markets and reduced trading volume. Our revenue, margins and operating results have varied in the past and are likely to fluctuate significantly in the future, making them difficult to predict. These difficulties are particularly exacerbated in light of our recent acquisitions and the uncertainties surrounding the benefits and costs associated with integration. Additionally, since our borrowings under our credit facilities bear interest at variable rates and we do not have interest rate hedges in place on this debt, any increase in interest rates will increase our interest expense and reduce our cash flow. Other than variable rate debt, we believe our business has relatively large fixed costs and low variable costs, which magnifies the impact of revenue fluctuations on our operating results. As a result, a decline in our revenue may lead to a relatively larger impact on operating results. A substantial portion of our operating expenses will be related to personnel costs, regulation and corporate overhead, none of which can be adjusted quickly and some of which cannot be adjusted at all. Our operating expense levels are based on our expectations for future revenue. If actual revenue is below management’s expectations, or if our expenses increase before revenues do, both gross margins and operating results would be materially and adversely affected. Because of these actions, it is possible that our operating results or other operating metrics may fail to meet the expectations of stock market analysts and investors. If this happens, the market price of our common stock is likely to decline. We must control our costs to remain profitable. We base our cost structure on historical and expected levels of demand for our products and services. A decline in our products and services may reduce our revenues without a corresponding decline in our expenses since we may not be able to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis. Our ability to manage and estimate our 27 Table of Contents costs will be particularly challenging as a result of recent acquisitions and integration efforts. Failure to achieve our goals on cost savings will have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Damage to our reputation could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. One of our competitive strengths is our strong reputation and brand name. Various issues may give rise to reputational risk, including issues relating to: • the representation of our business in the media; • the accuracy of our financial statements and other financial and statistical information; • the quality of our corporate governance structure; and • the quality of our products, including the reliability of our transaction-based business, the accuracy of the quote and trade information provided by our market information services business and the accuracy of calculations used by our financial products business for indices and unit investment trusts. Damage to our reputation could cause some issuers not to list their securities on our exchange as well as reduce the trading volume on our exchange or cause us to lose customers in our market information services or financial products businesses. This, in turn, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The value of our LSE investment could decline due to fluctuations in LSE’s stock price, the foreign currency exchange rate and payment of dividends. The market value of our investment in the LSE is subject to market price volatility. We currently do not have any hedges on our investments, including our investment in the LSE. To the extent that we have not hedged our exposure to a decrease in the value of these securities, the value of our LSE investment could decrease. To the extent we do not hedge our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations, we also are subject to the risk of fluctuations in the exchange rate related to our investment. Although we received dividends of $16.2 million in 2006, there is no guarantee that LSE will pay dividends to shareholders in future periods or that any dividends will be in comparable amounts. LSE is subject to certain risks. LSE suffers many of the same risks we suffer. To the extent these risks affect the future performance of the LSE businesses and, in turn, the market price of LSE share capital, the value of our investment in LSE could be materially affected. We may not be able keep up with rapid technological and other competitive changes affecting our industry. The markets in which we compete are characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards, frequent enhancements to existing products and services, the introduction of new services and products and changing customer demands. If our platform fails to function as expected, our business would be negatively affected. In addition, our business, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected if we cannot successfully develop, introduce, or market new services and products or if we need to adopt costly and customized technology for our services and products. In addition, our failure to anticipate or respond adequately to changes in technology and customer preferences, or any significant delays in product development efforts, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. System limitations, failures or security breaches could harm our business. Our business depends on the integrity and performance of the computer and communications systems supporting us. If our systems cannot expand to cope with increased demand or otherwise fail to perform, we 28 Table of Contents could experience unanticipated disruptions in service, slower response times and delays in the introduction of new products and services. These consequences could result in lower trading volumes, financial losses, decreased customer service and satisfaction and regulatory sanctions. We have experienced occasional systems failures and delays in the past and could experience future systems failures and delays. Under the Exchange’s limitation of liability rule, we, subject to certain caps, may provide compensation for losses due to malfunctions of our order-execution systems. If our trading volume increases unexpectedly, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure. We do not know whether we will be able to accurately project the rate, timing, or cost of any increases, or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate any increases in a timely manner. Our systems and operations also are vulnerable to damage or interruption from human error, natural disasters, power loss, sabotage or terrorism, computer viruses, intentional acts of vandalism, security breaches, outages and similar events. We have active and aggressive programs in place to identify and minimize our exposure to these vulnerabilities and work in collaboration with the technology industry to share corrective measures with our business partners. Although we currently maintain multiple computer facilities that are designed to provide redundancy and back-up to reduce the risk of system disruptions and have facilities in place that are expected to maintain service during a system disruption, such systems and facilities may prove inadequate. Any system failure that causes an interruption in service or decreases the responsiveness of our services could impair our reputation, damage our brand name and negatively impact our business, financial condition and operating results. The adoption and implementation of Regulation NMS by the SEC could adversely affect our business. On April 6, 2005, the SEC adopted Regulation NMS. Regulation NMS’s four primary components are: the Order Protection Rule, the Access Rule, the Market Data Rule and the Sub-Penny Rule. The major provisions of Regulation NMS will continue to be phased in over the course of 2007. We may incur technological and other costs in changing our systems and operations so that we can comply with these rules. We may also lose revenues due to a new formula under Regulation NMS for allocating market data revenue under the National Market System plans. Additionally, the impact of Regulation NMS is hard to predict and there may be problems or competitive challenges that we do not foresee that adversely affect our business as Regulation NMS is implemented. Finally, there is also a risk that the rules may materially change during implementation which would undermine business plans and investments that have been made based on the current form of the rules. Regulatory changes and changes in market structure could have a material adverse effect on our business. We operate in a highly regulated industry. In recent years, the securities trading industry and, in particular, the securities markets, have been subject to significant regulatory changes. Moreover, the securities markets have been the subject of increasing governmental and public scrutiny in response to a number of recent developments and inquiries. Any of these factors or events may result in future regulatory or other changes, although we cannot predict the nature of these changes or their impact on our business at this time. Our customers also operate in a highly regulated industry. The SEC and other regulatory authorities could impose regulatory changes that could impact the ability of our customers to use The Nasdaq Market Center or could adversely affect The Nasdaq Stock Market. The loss of a significant number of customers or a reduction in trading activity on The Nasdaq Stock Market as a result of such changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We are subject to extensive regulation that may harm our ability to compete with less regulated entities. Under current U.S. federal securities laws, changes in our rules and operations, including our pricing structure, must be reviewed, and in many cases explicitly approved by the SEC. The SEC may approve, 29 Table of Contents disapprove, or recommend changes to proposals that we submit. In addition, the SEC may delay the initiation of the public comment process or the approval process. This delay in approving changes, or the altering of any proposed change, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. We must compete not only with ECNs that are not subject to the same SEC approval process, but also with other exchanges that have lower regulation and surveillance costs than us. There is a risk that trading will shift to exchanges that charge lower fees because, among other reasons, they spend significantly less on regulation. In addition, Nasdaq Execution Services, LLC and NASDAQ Options Services, LLC are broker-dealers, which are subject to regulation by the SEC, NASD and other self-regulatory organizations. Any failure to comply with these broker-dealer regulations could have a material effect on the operation of our business, financial condition and operating results. Our registered broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to regulatory requirements intended to ensure their general financial soundness and liquidity, which require that they comply with certain minimum capital requirements. The SEC and NASD impose rules that require notification when net capital falls below certain predefined criteria, dictate the ratio of debt to equity in the regulatory capital composition of a broker-dealer and constrain the ability of a broker-dealer to expand its business under certain circumstances. Additionally, the Uniform Net Capital Rule, NYSE and NASD rules impose certain requirements that may have the effect of prohibiting a broker-dealer from distributing or withdrawing capital and requiring prior notice to, and/or approval of, the SEC, NYSE and NASD for certain withdrawals of capital. We have self-regulatory organization obligations and also operate a for-profit business, and these two roles may create conflicts of interest. We have obligations to regulate and monitor activities on The Nasdaq Stock Market and ensure compliance with applicable law and the rules of our market by market participants and Nasdaq-listed companies. The SEC staff has expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest of “for-profit” markets performing the regulatory functions of a self-regulatory organization. While we outsource the majority of our market regulation functions to NASD, we do perform regulatory functions related to our listed companies and our market. In addition, as part of our application for exchange registration, we have agreed that 20% of the directors of our exchange subsidiary will be elected by members of the Exchange rather than the equity holders of the subsidiary. Any failure by us to diligently and fairly regulate the Exchange, to fairly and accurately enforce the rules of the Exchange, to maintain a fair and orderly trading marketplace, to detect and correct aberrant market activity or to otherwise fulfill our regulatory obligations could significantly harm our reputation, prompt SEC scrutiny and adversely affect our business and reputation. Failure to attract and retain key personnel may adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Our future success depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified professional personnel. Competition for key personnel in the various localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior officers, is dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. In particular, we are highly dependent on the continued services of Robert Greifeld, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and other executive officers and key employees who possess extensive financial markets knowledge and technology skills. Other than employment agreements with Mr. Greifeld and our general counsel, we do not have employment agreements with our key executive officers, which would prevent them from leaving and competing with us. We do not maintain “key person” life insurance policies on any of our executive officers, managers, key employees or technical personnel. The loss of the services of these persons for any reason, as well as any negative market or industry perception arising from those losses, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 Table of Contents We are subject to risks relating to litigation and potential securities laws liability. Many aspects of our business potentially involve substantial liability risks. While we enjoy immunity from private suits for self-regulatory organization activities, we and our broker-dealer affiliates could be exposed to liability under federal and state securities laws, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, other federal and state laws and court decisions, as well as rules and regulations promulgated by the SEC and other regulatory agencies, including insurance laws and regulations. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over the terms of a trade, or claims that a system failure or delay cost a customer money, that we entered into an unauthorized transaction or that we made materially false or misleading statements or otherwise improper disclosures. As we intend to defend any such litigation actively, significant legal expenses could be incurred. An adverse resolution of any future lawsuit or claim against us or our affiliates could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we are subject to oversight by the SEC. The SEC regularly examines us and our broker-dealer affiliates for compliance with our obligations under the securities laws. In the case of non-compliance with our obligations under those laws, we or our broker-dealer affiliates could be subject to investigation and judicial or administrative proceedings that may result in substantial penalties. Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our brand-building efforts and ability to compete effectively. To protect our intellectual property rights, we rely on a combination of trademark laws, copyright laws, patent laws, trade secret protection, confidentiality agreements and other contractual arrangements with our affiliates, clients, strategic partners and others. The protective steps that we take may be inadequate to deter misappropriation of our proprietary information. We may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of, or take appropriate steps to enforce, our intellectual property rights. We have registered, or applied to register, our core trademarks in the United States and in over 50 foreign jurisdictions and have pending U.S. and foreign applications for other trademarks. Effective trademark, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which we offer our services. Failure to protect our intellectual property adequately could harm our brand and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, defending our intellectual property rights could result in the expenditure of significant financial and managerial resources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We are a holding company that depends on cash flow from our subsidiaries to meet our obligations. We are a holding company with no material assets other than the equity interests of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, all our operations are conducted by our subsidiaries. As a holding company, we require dividends and other payments from our subsidiaries to meet cash requirements or to pay dividends. If our subsidiaries are unable to pay us dividends and make other payments to us when needed, we will be unable to satisfy our obligations. Risks Relating to an Investment in Our Common Stock Volatility in our stock price could adversely affect our stockholders. The market price of our common stock is likely to be volatile. Broad market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, regardless of our actual operating performance. Factors that could cause fluctuations in our stock price may include, among other things: • fluctuations in the value of our investment in LSE; • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts who might cover our common stock; 31 Table of Contents • conditions or trends in our industry, including trading volumes, regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; • announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • sales of our common stock, including sales of our common stock by our directors and officers, significant stockholders or our strategic investors. The market price of our common stock could be negatively affected by sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public markets. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public markets, or the perception that these sales might occur, could cause the market price of our common stock to decline or could impair our ability to raise capital through a future sale of, or pay for acquisitions using, our equity securities. As of December 31, 2006, there were 112,317,987 shares of our common stock outstanding. All of our common stock is freely transferable, except shares held by our “affiliates,” as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The number of freely transferable shares of our common stock will increase upon any exercise of outstanding options pursuant to our stock compensation and stock award plan for our employees. There were 4,411,409 options exercisable as of December 31, 2006 at a weighted average exercise price of $8.71. The number of our shares of our common stock outstanding will also increase upon any conversion of our convertible notes primarily held by Silver Lake Partners, or SLP, and Hellman & Friedman, or H&F, or their respective affiliates, which are currently convertible at a conversion price of $14.50 per share into approximately 30,689,655 shares of our common stock, or any exercise of warrants primarily held by SLP and H&F or their respective affiliates, which are exercisable at a price of $14.50 per share into approximately 5.0 million shares of our common stock. We have granted SLP and H&F and their affiliates demand and piggyback registration rights with respect to the convertible notes and the shares of our common stock underlying those notes and warrants. All shares or notes sold under a registration statement will be freely transferable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and approved exchange rules, including provisions included to address SEC concerns, and Delaware law could delay or prevent a change in control of us and entrench current management. Our organizational documents place restrictions on the voting rights of certain stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation limits the voting rights of persons (either alone or with related parties) owning more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter, other than any other person as may be approved by our board of directors prior to the time such person owns more than 5% of the then outstanding votes entitled to be cast on any matter. The SEC has proposed rules that will impose voting and ownership limitations on broker-dealers of 20%, but not require other voting or ownership limitations. We have not determined at this time if we will seek to raise our 5% voting limitation if the SEC adopts the proposed rule. Any change to the 5% voting limitation would require SEC approval. In response to the SEC’s concern about a concentration of our ownership, our exchange rules include a rule prohibiting any Nasdaq member or any person associated with a Nasdaq member beneficially owning more than 20% of our outstanding voting interests. SEC consent would be required before any investor could obtain more than a 20% voting interest in us. Our exchange rules also require the SEC’s approval of any business ventures with one of our members, subject to exceptions. In addition, our organizational documents contain provisions that may be deemed to have an anti-takeover effect and may delay, deter or prevent a change of control of us, such as a tender offer or takeover proposal that 32 Table of Contents might result in a premium over the market price for our common stock. Additionally, certain of these provisions make it more difficult to bring about a change in the composition of our board of directors, which could result in entrenchment of current management. In addition, our certificate of incorporation and by-laws: • require supermajority stockholder approval to remove directors; • do not permit stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; • require certain advance notice for director nominations and actions to be taken at annual meetings; • require supermajority stockholder approval with respect to certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and by-laws (including in respect of the provisions set forth above); and • authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock, or “blank check” preferred stock, that could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval. Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law imposes restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more (or, in some cases, a holder who previously held 15% or more) of our common stock. In general, Delaware law prohibits a publicly held corporation from engaging in a “business combination” with an “interested stockholder” for three years after the stockholder becomes an interested stockholder, unless the corporation’s board of directors and stockholders approve the business combination in a prescribed manner. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 