ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our businesses, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition, may be adversely affected by the current disruption in the global credit markets and instability of financial systems. The recent disruption in the global credit markets, the re-pricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets generally, particularly in the U.S. and Europe, have all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending and a decline in the overall U.S. economy. Although the recent disruptions were initially in the housing, financial and insurance sectors, it appears that this deterioration has further expanded to the general economy and other sectors, including the wind energy sector. Tight credit, increased unemployment and reduced consumer confidence may have negative effects on demand for alternative sources of energy and consequently for our product and service offerings. In addition, some economists are predicting that the U.S. economy, and possibly the global economy, has entered into a prolonged recession or even a depression as a result of the foregoing factors. Such a prolonged downturn in the U.S. or global economy could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including lower sales and renewal cycles if there is a reduction in demand for wind energy and could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if these conditions continue or worsen, they may result in reduced worldwide demand for energy and additional difficulties in obtaining financing, which may adversely affect our business. Risks we might face could include: potential declines in revenues in our business segments due to reduced orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers and potential adverse impacts on our ability to access credit and other financing sources (and the cost thereof) beyond the approved credit lines we currently have. Each of these conditions may also impact our ability to finance future acquisitions or significant capital expenditures relating to new projects and lines of business. A disruption of economic growth in the wind industry could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. Our business segments are focused on supplying products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. Currently the wind industry is dependent upon federal tax incentives and state renewable portfolio standards. The federal 8 Table of Contents government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including a federal production tax credit, an investment tax credit and a cash grant equal in value to the investment tax credit. The production tax credit was extended in February 2009 through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 and provides the owner of a qualifying wind energy facility placed in operation before the end of 2012 with a ten-year tax credit against the owner's federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity generated by the qualifying wind energy facility. Alternatively, wind project owners may elect to receive a 30% investment tax credit for facilities placed in service before the end of 2012 or apply to receive a cash grant from the Department of Treasury, equal in value to the investment tax credit, for facilities placed in service in 2009 and 2010, and also for facilities placed in service before 2013 if construction begins before the end of 2010. The production tax credit, investment tax credit and cash grant provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services and may do so until the credits or incentives lapse. The failure of Congress to extend or renew these incentives beyond 2012 could significantly delay the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers and related components. In addition, we cannot assure you that any subsequent extension or renewal of the production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant would be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. It is possible that these federal incentives will not be extended beyond 2012. Any delay or failure to extend or renew the federal production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. Renewable portfolio standards are state-specific statutory provisions requiring state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain amount of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy sources. Additionally, certified renewable energy generators can earn renewable energy credits for every unit of electricity they produce and sell from renewable generation facilities. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured products. Currently, more than 25 states and the District of Colombia have renewable portfolio standards in place and at least 3 states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of renewable portfolio standards in additional states or any changes to existing renewable portfolio standards, or the enactment of a federal renewable portfolio standard or carbon trading policy may impact the demand for our products. We cannot assure you that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers. Each of our segments has significant customers and concentrated sales to such customers. If our relationships with significant customers should change materially, including as a result of decreased customer demand for our products and services due to the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in such a market where we have significant revenue concentration. In addition, although our subsidiary companies operate independently, a dispute between a significant customer and the Company or one of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on the business relationship we have with that customer across our entire organization. Among other things, such a dispute could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of our subsidiaries that are otherwise not related to such a dispute. Moreover, a material change in payment terms for accounts receivable of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on the Company's short-term cash flows. 9 Table of Contents Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the markets. Current market disruptions and regular market volatility may have adverse impacts on our customers' ability to pay, when due, the amounts payable to us and could cause related increases in our cost of capital associated with any increased working capital or borrowing needs we may have if this occurs. We may also have difficulty collecting amounts payable to us in full (or at all) if any of our customers fail or seek protection under applicable bankruptcy or insolvency laws. In addition, our customers may attempt to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. Our backlog is substantial and we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of our backlog that we will be successful in collecting from our customers. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers bringing warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products or services that they would not ordinarily bring in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation against the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business. Volatile financial markets or our own operating performance and liquidity could restrict our ability to access capital, and may increase our borrowing costs and ability to continue as a going concern. In a Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008, Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. ("TCP"), Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund, L.P. ("TMF"), Tontine Partners, L.P. ("TP"), Tontine Overseas Fund, Ltd. ("TOF") and Tontine 25 Overseas Master Fund, L.P. ("T25" and collectively with TP, TOF, TCP, TMF and their affiliates, "Tontine") stated its intention to explore alternatives for the disposition of its equity interest in the Company. Tontine owns approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. We have from time to time relied on Tontine for financing cash flows from private placements of our common stock. Tontine's intentions with respect to our common stock may affect our ability to raise cash from financing activities and could affect our liquidity. We rely on access to both short and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. Unprecedented disruptions in the current credit and financial markets, particularly in the United States and Europe, have had a significant material adverse impact on a number of financial institutions and have limited access to capital and credit for many companies. These disruptions could make it more difficult for the Company to obtain debt financing for its operations, acquisitions and anticipated capital expenditures or increase its cost of obtaining financing, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, our current short- and long-term debt agreements contain various financial covenants. Violations of such covenants may restrict our ability to obtain the additional financing we need to implement our growth strategy. In the event of a loan covenant violation and inability to obtain waivers, our loans would be due immediately and our ability to obtain financing could be severely impacted. As previously disclosed, as a result of restating our financial statements for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008, Brad Foote was in violation of two of its covenants in its Loan Agreement, dated as of January 17, 1997, as amended (the "Loan Agreement") with Bank of America, formerly LaSalle Bank National Association ("BOA"). Brad Foote obtained a waiver of these covenant violations from BOA as of September 30, 2008, and otherwise was in compliance with the financial and other covenants contained in the Loan Agreement as of September 30, 2008. 10 Table of Contents On January 16, 2009, Brad Foote, 1309 South Cicero, LLC ("1309") and 5100 Neville Road, LLC ("5100") (each a wholly-owned subsidiary of Brad Foote) entered into an Omnibus Amendment Agreement dated January 15, 2009 (the "Omnibus Amendment") with BOA, amending the Loan Agreement. Among other things, the Omnibus Amendment provided that BOA waive Brad Foote's violation of the two covenants in the Loan Agreement with which Brad Foote had not been in compliance for the period from December 31, 2008 up to but not including January 20, 2009. The Omnibus Amendment also provided that Brad Foote's financial covenants and events of default under the Loan Agreement be amended and restated. On March 13, 2009, Brad Foote, 1309 and 5100 entered into a Second Omnibus Amendment Agreement (the "Second Omnibus Amendment") with BOA and, in connection therewith, the Company, 1309 and 5100 entered into a Reaffirmation of agreements and covenants in the Loan Agreement and related documents (the "Reaffirmation"). Among other things, the Second Omnibus Amendment further amended and restated certain financial covenants under the Loan Agreement and shortened the maturities of certain of the loans outstanding under the Loan Agreement. Pursuant to the Second Omnibus Amendment, Brad Foote paid BOA $1.5 million of the amount outstanding on its revolving note under the Loan Agreement ($500,000 of which was paid by the Company on behalf of Brad Foote) and will pay an extension fee on a monthly basis through the end of 2009. In addition, the Second Omnibus Amendment also provided that the revolving note under the Loan Agreement be amortized pursuant to monthly payments, that the maturity date of the revolving note under the Loan Agreement be extended to January 15, 2011, that BOA's revolving credit commitment under the Loan Agreement be terminated and that BOA shall have no obligation to make revolving loans to Brad Foote under the Loan Agreement. While we expect that we will be in compliance with the amended and restated covenants contained in the Loan Agreements, there can be no certainty that Brad Foote will be in compliance with such covenants for any future periods or that Brad Foote will be able to attain a waiver from BOA in the event of a violation of one or more such covenants. Please see Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for a more detailed discussion of the Loan Agreement. The Board of Directors of the Company has established a Finance Committee to, among other things, assist the Board in monitoring and evaluating the Company's liquidity, short- and long-term financing plans and capital structure. We may have difficulty raising additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms, which could force us to delay, reduce or eliminate some or all of our development plans. Our limited resources and limited operating history may make it difficult to borrow funds to increase the amount of capital available to us to carry out our business. The amount and nature of any such borrowings would depend on numerous considerations, including our capital requirements, our perceived ability to meet debt service on any such borrowings and the then prevailing conditions in the financial markets, as well as general economic conditions. There can be no assurance that debt financing, if required or sought, would be available on terms deemed to be commercially acceptable by us and in our best interest. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows or that credit facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other liquidity needs. Our ability to make scheduled payments on our debt and other financial obligations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. While we believe that we will continue to have sufficient cash flows to operate our businesses, there can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows or that credit facilities will be available to us in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled 11 Table of Contents payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Our financial and operating performance is subject to prevailing economic and industry conditions and to financial, business and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we will likely face increased pressure to dispose of assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that we would be able to take any of these actions, that these actions would be successful and permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations or that these actions would be permitted under the terms of our existing or future debt agreements since our credit agreements restrict our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from such dispositions. For example, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. There can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all. In the absence of improved operating results and access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds realized. Additionally, these proceeds may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions, and a default under our credit agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our credit agreements limit our ability to take various actions, including paying dividends and disposing of assets. Accordingly, we may be restricted from taking actions that management believes would be desirable and in the best interests of us and our stockholders. Our credit agreements also require us to satisfy specified financial and non-financial covenants. A breach of any covenants contained in our credit agreements could result in an event of default under the agreements. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under our credit agreements, the lenders may not be required to lend any additional amounts to us and could elect to declare all borrowings outstanding thereunder, together with accrued and unpaid interest and fees, to be due and payable, which could also result in an event of default under our other agreements relating to our borrowings, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. As a result of these covenants, we are limited in the manner in which we conduct our business and we may be unable to engage in favorable business activities or finance future operations or capital needs. Our ability to comply with the covenants and restrictions contained in the agreements governing our indebtedness may be affected by economic, financial and industry conditions beyond our control. If we were unable to refinance these borrowings on favorable terms, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted by increased costs and less favorable terms, including higher interest rates and more restrictive covenants. The instruments governing the terms of any future refinancing of any borrowings are likely to contain similar or more restrictive covenants. Our level of indebtedness could adversely affect our business, and certain of our indebtedness matures in the near term. As of December 31, 2008, our consolidated indebtedness totaled approximately $43.3 million, $11.8 million of which Broadwind has guaranteed for our wholly-owned subsidiaries. As of March 13, 2009, approximately $36.5 million of outstanding indebtedness was guaranteed by Broadwind. We 12 Table of Contents cannot assure you that our businesses will generate sufficient cash flow from operations to pay this debt. In addition, approximately $14.0 million of our indebtedness is scheduled to mature during 2009. Our significant debt service obligations: •may limit our ability to obtain additional financing in excess of our current borrowing capacity on satisfactory terms to fund working capital requirements, capital expenditures, acquisitions, debt service requirements, capital stock and debt repurchases, dividends, distributions and other general corporate requirements or to refinance existing indebtedness; •require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on our debt which will reduce the funds we have available for other purposes; •limit our liquidity and operational flexibility and our ability to respond to the challenging economic and business conditions that currently exist or that we may face in the future; •may require us in the future to reduce discretionary spending, dispose of assets or forgo acquisitions or other strategic opportunities; •impose on us additional financial and operational restrictions; •expose us to increased interest rate risk because a substantial portion of our debt obligations are at variable interest rates; and •subject us to market and industry speculation as to our financial condition and the effect of our debt level and debt service obligations on our operations, which speculation could be disruptive to our relationships with customers, suppliers, employees, creditors and other third parties. For a more detailed discussion of the indebtedness of Broadwind and its subsidiaries, please see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 and Note 12 "Debt and Credit Agreements" in Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. As of December 31, 2008, approximately $31.4 million of our borrowings were at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same. In connection with the acquisition of Brad Foote in October 2007, the Company assumed two interest rate swap agreements. These swap agreements related to two outstanding equipment loans with a notional amount totaling $8.6 million and involved the exchange of a floating interest rate for a fixed interest rate. These swaps are scheduled to mature in January 2011 and April 2012. We may use interest rate derivatives to hedge the variability of the cash flows associated with our existing or forecasted variable rate borrowings. Although we may enter into additional interest rate swaps, involving the exchange of floating for fixed rate interest payments, to reduce interest rate volatility, we cannot provide assurances that we will be able to do so or that such swaps will be effective. Growth and diversification through acquisitions and internal expansion may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance. To execute our business strategy, we may acquire new businesses. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions. If we are unable to make acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the growth we anticipate. Future acquisitions could involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products, and personnel of the acquired business; and the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of 13 Table of Contents the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully manage these acquisition risks, future earnings may be adversely affected. We may also plan to continue to grow our existing business through increased production levels at existing facilities and through expansion to new manufacturing facilities and locations, such as our recently completed tower manufacturing facility in Abilene, Texas and our partially constructed tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota. Such expansion and any future expansion will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems and equipment, and property. Difficulties or delays in acquiring and effectively integrating any new facilities may adversely affect future performance. Moreover, if our expansion efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected. We have a limited operating history. In February 2006, the Company completed a reverse shell transaction with Tower Tech, whereupon we became a holding company for Tower Tech. From the third quarter of 2007 through June of 2008, we acquired RBA, Brad Foote, EMS and Badger, all of which had been stand-alone private companies prior to when they were acquired by Broadwind. Our limited operating history and the limited period of time during which we have operated in our current form makes it difficult to evaluate our business. In addition, the uncertainty of our future performance and ability to maintain or improve our financial, sales and operating systems, procedures and controls increase the risk that we may be unable to continue to successfully operate our business. In the event that we are not able to manage our growth and operate as a public company due to our limited experience, our business may suffer uncertainty and failures. We face intense competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with our subsidiaries based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. We have generated limited revenue and have generated net losses and negative cash flows since our inception. We have experienced operating losses, as well as net losses, for each of the years during which we have operated. In addition in light of current economic conditions, we anticipate that future losses and negative cash flow is possible for the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses and there is no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products and services, no assurance can be given that these products can be sold on a net profit basis. If we achieve profitability, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 14 Table of Contents Material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal control over financial reporting, including potential failure to prevent or detect errors or fraud, could affect the accuracy of our reported financial results. Management has identified material weaknesses in internal controls over financial reporting in 2008, as referenced in Item 9A Controls and Procedures of this Annual Report filed on Form 10-K. The Company restated certain financial information in its Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2008 on account of certain material weaknesses in internal controls over its financial reporting. Internal control weaknesses or deficiencies may continue to affect our ability to close our financial reporting on a timely basis or report accurate numbers. In addition, acquisitions of companies lacking sufficient financial and internal control expertise may affect our ability to comply with public company reporting requirements in the future, including meeting filing deadlines established by the SEC, and ensuring that our Company-wide controls and procedures are adequate to provide financial information in a timely and reliable matter. We may incur substantial additional costs to bring acquired companies' systems into compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended ("Sarbanes-Oxley"). Our ability to attract and retain qualified financial experts will also impact our ability to comply with financial reporting and Sarbanes-Oxley regulations. If we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets and could cause our stock price to decline. We are required to devote substantial time to compliance initiatives, which may divert management's attention from the growth and operation of our business. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses, and we are subject to the SEC's rules and regulations relating to public disclosure that generally involve a substantial expenditure of financial resources and managerial time. In addition, Sarbanes-Oxley, as well as rules subsequently implemented by the SEC, require changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. Full compliance with these rules and regulations has significantly increased our legal and financial compliance costs and has made some activities more time-consuming and costly. We may also incur substantial additional costs to bring acquired companies' systems into compliance with Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley. Such additional reporting and compliance costs may negatively impact our financial results. To the extent our earnings suffer as a result of the financial impact of our SEC reporting or compliance costs, our ability to develop an active trading market for our securities could be harmed. As a public company, we also expect that new rules and regulations may make it more difficult and expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance in the future, and we may be required to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same coverage. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors or as executive officers. It may be time-consuming, difficult and costly for us to continue our development and implementation of the internal controls and reporting procedures required by Sarbanes-Oxley. Some members of our management team have limited or no experience operating a company with securities traded or listed on an exchange, or subject to SEC rules and requirements, including SEC reporting practices and requirements that are applicable to a publicly traded company. We may need to recruit, hire, train and retain additional financial reporting, internal controls and other personnel in order to develop and implement appropriate internal controls and reporting procedures. 15 Table of Contents Our future operating results and the market price of the common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to write down the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets associated with any of our operating segments in the future. In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142"), we review our goodwill and intangible balances for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair-value-based test. Our estimate of fair-value for each of our operating segments is based primarily on projected future results and cash flows and other assumptions. In addition, in accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets ("SFAS 144"), we review long-lived assets whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that its carrying amount may not be recoverable. In October of 2008, we performed our annual test for goodwill impairment and determined that the goodwill balance related to RBA was impaired. This determination indicated a decline in the projected fair value of RBA net assets based upon forecasted operating results. Our analysis indicated that the projected discounted cash flows associated with RBA's net assets did not exceed their carrying value. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $2.4 million during the fourth quarter of 2008. In the future, if our projected discounted cash flows associated with our operating segments do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record additional write downs of the carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets associated with any of our operating segments in accordance with SFAS 142 and SFAS 144, and our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results. The Company is dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in its production process and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for items such as steel, the primary raw material used by the Company, have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, the Company has incorporated price adjustment clauses in certain sales contracts, however, limitations on availability or increases or decreases in the cost of raw materials, including steel, the cost of energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results, because our manufacturing businesses may not be able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases or decreases to their respective customers. In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by such events as natural disasters, power outages and the effect of labor strikes. In the event of significant increases or decreases in the price of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. Restrictions on transport and significant fluctuations in fuel costs could affect distribution access to certain geographical areas. Significant fluctuations in fuel costs and transport restrictions could negatively impact transport of large products such as towers, blades and nacelles. Depending on the location of our customers' and potential customers' wind projects, they may choose to limit their transportation expenses by choosing to source component purchases in geographic areas where our operations are not located. In addition, rising fuel costs and transport restrictions could have a material effect on the business and operations of Badger, our specialized heavy haul trucking subsidiary. 16 Table of Contents Trade restrictions may present barriers to entry in certain international markets. Restrictions on trade with certain international markets could affect our ability to expand into these markets. In addition, the existence of government subsidies available to our competitors in certain countries may affect our ability to compete on a price basis. We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine component manufacturing. The global market for wind turbines is rapidly evolving technologically. Wind turbines are progressively becoming larger and more powerful, and our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, the Company's net worth, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect the future success of the Company. We are dependent on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike, or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Collective bargaining units in place at our Brad Foote subsidiary's Pittsburgh and Cicero facilities are under contract through 2009 and 2010, respectively and represent approximately 32% of the Company's workforce. The loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts, and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and key personnel throughout our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success and our current level of controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all such requirements. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. In addition, many of our products are or may become subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. While we believe that our businesses are currently in compliance with the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities applicable to them, our current internal controls are likely insufficient to guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with such requirements. We 17 Table of Contents continue to develop our internal controls with a goal of providing a greater degree of certainty that our businesses are in compliance with applicable governmental and regulatory requirements, but our current level of internal control may fail to reveal to us material instances of non-compliance with such requirements, and such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Our principal stockholder holds a large percentage of our common stock and influences our affairs significantly but has publicly stated its intention to liquidate certain of its holdings in various investments, which may include shares of our common stock. Tontine owns approximately 49% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2008. As a result, Tontine has the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. Tontine's significant ownership level may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. Tontine and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of Tontine and the interests of our other stockholders arise, the Tontine-designated directors may have conflicts of interest. Although our directors and officers will have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible, if done in compliance with Delaware law. The actions of Tontine may have the effect of influencing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. As stated above, Tontine in Schedule 13D filed with the SEC on November 10, 2008 stated its intention to explore alternatives for the disposition of its equity interest in the Company. We have granted Tontine registration rights with respect to the Broadwind common stock it holds. Sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that these sales may occur, could affect the management of our company and could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 18 Table of Contents 