Risk Factors. Research Use Only Products We do not anticipate that our products that are labeled for research use only, or RUO, (i.e., products used in drug discovery or genomics research) will be subject to additional government regulation of significance. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development costs associated with our products and technologies account for a substantial portion of our operating expenses. Research and development expenses for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005 were $22.8 million, $12.4 million, and $8.4 million, respectively. The significant increase in research and development expenses in 2007 was driven by the planned investment in the Company’s HPV products and associated clinical trials. 12 Table of Contents EMPLOYEES As of December 31, 2007, we employed 179 persons, of whom 31 hold doctorate degrees and 123 hold other advanced degrees. Approximately 60 employees are engaged in research and development, 45 in business development, sales and marketing, 35 in operations and manufacturing and 39 in intellectual property, finance and other administrative functions. Our success will depend in large part on our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. We face competition in this regard from other companies, research and academic institutions, government entities and other organizations. We believe that we maintain good relations with our employees. AVAILABLE INFORMATION We make available financial information, news releases and other information on our web site at www.twt.com. Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, our Code of Business Conduct (which governs all officers, executives, directors and employees of the Company), and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our web site as soon as reasonably practicable after we file such reports and amendments with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAD AN ACCUMULATED DEFICIT OF $194.6 MILLION AT DECEMBER 31, 2007, AND EXPECT TO CONTINUE TO INCUR SUBSTANTIAL OPERATING LOSSES FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE. We have had substantial operating losses since our inception, and we expect our operating losses to continue over the foreseeable future. We experienced net losses of $16.8 million in 2007, $18.9 million in 2006, and $22.3 million in 2005. In order to further develop our products and technologies, including development of new products for the clinical market, we will need to incur significant expenses in connection with our internal research and development and commercialization programs. As a result, we expect to incur annual operating losses for the foreseeable future. In addition, there is no assurance that we will ever become profitable or that we will sustain profitability if we do become profitable. FLUCTUATIONS IN OUR QUARTERLY REVENUES AND OPERATING RESULTS MAY NEGATIVELY IMPACT OUR STOCK PRICE. Our revenues and results of operations have fluctuated significantly in the past and we expect significant fluctuations to continue in the future due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. These factors include: • the volume and timing of orders for our products; • changes in the mix of our products offered; • the timing of payments we receive under collaborative agreements, as well as our ability to recognize these payments as revenues; • the number, timing and significance of new products and technologies introduced by our competitors; • third-party intellectual property, which may require significant investments in licensing or royalties, or which may materially impede our ability to sell products; • our ability to develop, obtain regulatory clearance, market and introduce new and enhanced products on a timely basis; • changes in the cost, quality and availability of equipment, reagents and components required to manufacture or use our products; and 13 Table of Contents • availability of third-party reimbursement to users of our clinical products. The company has an established infrastructure of operating expenses. There is a risk that if our revenues decline or do not grow as anticipated, we will not be able to reduce our operating expenses quickly in the short-term which will result in significant harm to our operating results for one or more fiscal periods. OUR TECHNOLOGIES AND COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS MAY NOT BE COMMERCIALLY VIABLE OR SUCCESSFUL, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR BUSINESS. We are currently developing and commercializing a limited number of products based on our technologies. We plan to develop additional products. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete development of our products that are currently under development or that we will be able to develop additional new products. In addition, for our genetic and pharmacogenetic products, some of the genetic variations for which we develop our products may not be useful or cost effective in assisting therapeutic selection, patient monitoring or diagnostic applications. In this event, our sales of products for these genetic variations would diminish significantly or cease, and we would not be able to recoup our investment in developing these products. Accordingly, if we fail to successfully develop our products and technologies or if our technologies are not useful in the development of commercially successful products, we may not achieve a competitive position in the market. Market acceptance of our products will depend on widespread acceptance of such products by doctors and clinicians. The use of products to assess genetic variation, gene expression or identify infectious diseases is relatively new and remains uncertain. If clinicians and doctors fail to adopt our products, our ability to grow our revenues would be impaired which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE ARE RELIANT ON OUR ABILITY TO MANUFACTURE AND DEVELOP PRODUCTS. IF THERE IS A DISRUPTION TO THE MANUFACTURING OF OUR PRODUCTS, IT MAY HAVE AN ADVERSE AFFECT TO OUR BUSINESS. If we fail to meet our manufacturing needs, we may not be able to provide our customers with the quantity of products they require, which would damage customer relations and result in reduced revenues. Additionally, some of our products must be manufactured in accordance with the FDA’s QSRs, and we cannot guarantee that our manufacturing and production systems will always be in compliance with the QSRs. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements or any adverse regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on us. Key components of our products may be sourced from a single supplier or a limited number of suppliers. In addition, some of the components incorporated into our products may be proprietary and unavailable from secondary sources. Finally, to comply with QSRs, we must verify that our suppliers of key components are in compliance with all applicable FDA regulations and meet our standards for quality. Should we be unable to continue to obtain needed components from our existing suppliers on commercially reasonable terms, if at all, it could be time consuming and expensive for us to seek alternative sources of supply. Consequently, if any events cause delays or interruptions in the supply of our components, we may not be able to supply our customers with our products on a timely basis which would adversely affect our results of operations. WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO CONTINUE TO OUTSOURCE THE MANUFACTURE OF COMPONENTS FOR OUR PRODUCTS ON FAVORABLE TERMS, IF AT ALL, AND EVEN SUCCESSFUL OUTSOURCING CREATES RISK DUE TO OUR RESULTING RELIANCE ON VENDORS. We currently outsource a portion of our manufacturing, and may pursue additional outsourcing opportunities in the future where economically advantageous. For example, we outsource the manufacture of select components for the microfluidics card format and components of certain assays intended for research applications. However, we may be unable to successfully outsource additional manufacturing in the near term, if at all. The selection and ultimate qualification of vendors to manufacture components for our products could be costly and increase our cost of revenues. In addition, we do not know if we will be able to negotiate long-term contracts with subcontractors to manufacture components for our products at acceptable prices or volumes. Further, even if we find suitable vendors, creation of such arrangements carries risks since we have to rely on the vendor to provide an uninterrupted source of 14 Table of Contents high quality product. Because our customers have high quality and reliability standards and our components require sophisticated testing techniques, we may have difficulty in the future in obtaining sufficiently high quality or timely manufacture and testing of outsourced components. Whenever a subcontractor is not successful in adopting such techniques, we may experience increased costs, including warranty and product liability expense and costs associated with customer support, delays, cancellations or rescheduling of orders or shipments, damage to customer relationships, delayed qualification of new products with our customers, product returns or discounts and lost revenues, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR LIMITED SALES AND MARKETING EXPERIENCE AND CAPACITY MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GROW AND TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY IN COMMERCIALIZING OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS. Our sales force consists of 17 individuals focused on direct sales and 17 individuals focused on service and support in the clinical market. We may need to increase the size of our sales force as we further commercialize our products, and we may not be able to recruit, hire and train a sufficient number of sales personnel as needed. We may also market our products through collaborations and distribution agreements with diagnostic, biopharmaceutical and life science companies. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to establish and maintain a successful sales force or establish collaboration or distribution arrangements to market our products. Our failure to implement an effective marketing and sales strategy could impair our ability to grow our revenues and execute our business plan which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have limited experience with sales of our clinical molecular diagnostics products outside of the U.S. We cannot guarantee that we will successfully develop sales, distribution, product and customer support capabilities internationally that will enable us to generate significant revenue from sales outside the U.S. In addition, sales made outside the U.S. are subject to foreign regulations typical to the sale and marketing of our products that may pose an additional risk for us. Our failure to increase our revenues from sales outside of the U.S. could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. OUR CUSTOMER BASE IS DOMINATED BY A SMALL NUMBER OF LARGE CLINICAL TESTING LABORATORIES AND MANY OF OUR CONTRACTS WITH KEY CUSTOMERS ARE SHORT-TERM CONTRACTS AND/OR SUBJECT TO EARLY TERMINATION. Our customer base is dominated by a small number of large clinical testing laboratories (Quest Diagnostics, Inc., Mayo Medical Laboratories, Kaiser Permanente, Spectrum Laboratory Network and Berkeley Heart Laboratories) and research customers (University of Tokyo/RIKEN and Pioneer Hi-Bred International, Inc.). We regularly experience pricing and other competitive pressures in these accounts. Many of our contracts with key customers are short-term contracts and/or subject to early termination. Our customers are not obligated to renew contracts after they expire. If, for any reason, we are unable to maintain or renew our contracts, particularly our contracts with key customers, or if, for any reason, we are unable to maintain current pricing levels and/or volumes with our customers, our revenues and business may suffer materially. WE MAY REQUIRE ADDITIONAL FINANCING FOR OUR FUTURE OPERATING PLANS. FINANCING MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE ON ACCEPTABLE TERMS, IF AT ALL. We may need to raise additional capital in the future. We have expended significant resources and expect to continue to expend significant resources in our research and product development and commercialization activities and to improve production processes, litigate intellectual property disputes, and seek FDA clearances or approvals. In December 2006 we sold $20,000,000 (at maturity) of Convertible Senior Subordinated Zero-Coupon Promissory Notes which will mature on December 19, 2011. In December 2007 we entered into a facility agreement under which we may borrow up to an aggregate of $25,000,000 for a term of five years from the lenders. The amount of additional capital we will need to raise will depend on many factors, including: • our progress with our research and development programs; • the need we may have to pursue FDA clearances or approvals of our products; 15 Table of Contents • our level of success in selling our products and technologies; • our ability to establish and maintain successful collaborations; • the costs we incur in securing intellectual property rights, whether through patents, licenses or otherwise; • the costs we incur in enforcing and defending our patent claims and other intellectual property rights; • the timing of debt repayment obligations and additional capital expenditures; • the need to respond to competitive pressures; and • the possible acquisition of complementary products, businesses or technologies. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity, convertible debt or other equity-linked securities, our shareholders’ percentage ownership in the Company will be reduced. In addition, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding stock. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products, or grant licenses to third parties on terms that are unfavorable to us. If future financing is not available to us or is not available on terms acceptable to us, we may not be able to fund our future needs which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. COMMERCIALIZATION OF OUR TECHNOLOGIES MAY DEPEND ON STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS WITH OTHER COMPANIES, AND IF OUR CURRENT OR FUTURE PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIONS ARE NOT SUCCESSFUL, WE MAY EXPERIENCE DIFFICULTY COMMERCIALIZING OUR TECHNOLOGIES AND PRODUCTS. In order to augment our internal sales and marketing efforts and to reach additional product and geographic markets, we have entered into or may enter into strategic partnerships and collaborations for the development, marketing, sales or distribution of our products. These agreements provide us, in some instances, with distribution of our products, access to products and technologies that are complementary to ours and funding for development of our products. We may also be dependent on collaborators for regulatory approvals and clearances, and manufacturing in particular geographic and product markets. If our strategic partnerships and collaborations are not successful, we may not be able to develop or successfully commercialize the products that are the subject of the collaborations on a timely basis, if at all, or effectively distribute our products. In addition, if we do not enter into additional partnership agreements, or if these agreements are not successful, our ability to develop, commercialize and distribute products could be negatively affected which would harm our future operating results. We have no control over the resources that any partner or collaborator may devote to our products. Any of our present or future partners or collaborators may not perform their obligations as expected. These partners or collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to meet their obligations or perform their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, any of our partners or collaborators may elect not to develop products arising out of our partnerships or collaborations or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, commercialization or distribution of these products. If any of these events occur, we may not be able to develop our products and technologies and our ability to generate revenues will decrease. WE ARE IN A HIGHLY COMPETITIVE INDUSTRY AND MARKETPLACE. COMPETITIVE DEVELOPMENTS, INCLUDING NEW TECHNOLOGIES THAT RENDER OURS LESS COMPETITIVE OR OBSOLETE, COULD SERIOUSLY HARM OUR BUSINESS. The biotechnology and life sciences industries generally and the genetic analysis and molecular diagnostics markets specifically are highly competitive, and we expect the intensity of competition to increase. We compete with organizations in the U.S. and abroad that develop and manufacture products and provide services for the analysis of genetic information for research and/or clinical applications. These organizations include: • diagnostic, biotechnology, pharmaceutical, healthcare, chemical and other companies; • academic and scientific institutions; 16 Table of Contents • governmental agencies; • public and private research organizations; and • clinical laboratories. Many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, research, marketing, sales, distribution, service and other resources than we have. Moreover, our competitors may offer broader product lines and have greater name recognition than we have, and may offer discounts as a competitive tactic. In addition, several development stage companies are currently making or developing technologies, products or services that compete with or are being designed to compete with our technologies and products. Our competitors may develop or market technologies, products or services that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products, or that may render our technologies or products less competitive or obsolete. Competitors may make rapid technological developments which may result in our technologies and products becoming obsolete before we recover the expenses incurred to develop them or before they generate significant revenue or market acceptance. Competitors may also obtain regulatory advances or approvals of their diagnostic products more rapidly than we do. In addition, many of our competitors may be more successful than we are at obtaining third-party reimbursement for their products. We may not be able to compete effectively against competitors that hold such advantages which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE MAY BE UNABLE TO PROTECT OUR PROPRIETARY METHODS AND TECHNOLOGIES AND MAY BE SUBJECT TO CLAIMS OF INFRINGEMENT OF THE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OF OTHERS. Our commercial success will depend, to a significant degree, on our ability to obtain patent protection on many aspects of our business, including the products, methods and services we develop. Patents issued to us may not provide us with substantial protection or be commercially beneficial to us. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or its enforceability. In addition, our patent applications or those we have licensed, may not result in issued patents. If our patent applications do not result in issued patents, our competitors may obtain rights to commercialize our discoveries which would harm our competitive position. We also may apply for patent protection on novel genetic variations in known genes and their uses, as well as novel uses for previously identified genetic variations discovered by third parties. In the latter cases or in the area of new product development, we may need licenses from the holders of patents with respect to such genetic variations in order to make, use or sell any related products. We may not be able to acquire such licenses on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Certain parties are attempting to rapidly identify and characterize genes and genetic variations through the use of sequencing and other technologies. To the extent any patents are issued to other parties on such partial or full-length genes or genetic variations or uses for such genes or genetic variations, the risk increases that the sale of products developed by us or our collaborators may give rise to claims of patent infringement against us. Others may have filed and, in the future, are likely to file patent applications covering many genetic variations and their uses. Others have filed and, in the future, may file, patent applications covering improvements to our technologies. Any such patent application may have priority over our patent applications and could further restrict our ability to market our products. We cannot assure you that any license that we may require under any such patent will be made available to us on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. While we believe our technology does not infringe any third party rights, we have in the past been party to and are currently party to litigation involving patents and intellectual property rights. See Part I, Item 3 — Legal Proceedings. We may in the future become party to other litigation involving claims of infringement of intellectual property rights. We could also become involved in disputes regarding the ownership of intellectual property rights that relate to our technologies. These disputes could arise out of collaboration relationships, strategic partnerships or other relationships. Any such litigation could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. If we do not prevail in any pending or future legal proceeding, we may be 17 Table of Contents required to pay significant monetary damages. In addition, we could also be required to cease using certain processes or prevented from selling certain configurations of our products which could require us to obtain licenses from the other party or modify some of our products and processes to design around the patents. Licenses could be costly or unavailable on commercially reasonable terms. Designing around patents or focusing efforts on different configurations could be time consuming, and we could be forced to remove some of our products from the market while we complete redesigns. Accordingly, if we are unable to settle pending or future intellectual property disputes through licensing or similar arrangements, or if any such pending or future disputes are determined adversely to us, our ability to market and sell our products could be impaired which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in order to protect or enforce our patent rights or to protect our ability to operate our business, we may need to initiate patent litigation against third parties. These lawsuits could be expensive, take significant time, and could divert management’s attention from other business concerns. These lawsuits could result in the invalidation or limitation in the scope of our patents or forfeiture of the rights associated with our patents. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in any such proceedings or that a court will not find damages or award other remedies in favor of the opposing party in any of these suits. During the course of any future proceedings, there may be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions and other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. OTHER RIGHTS AND MEASURES THAT WE RELY UPON TO PROTECT OUR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MAY NOT BE ADEQUATE TO PROTECT OUR PRODUCTS AND COULD REDUCE OUR ABILITY TO COMPETE IN THE MARKET. In addition to patents, we rely on a combination of trade secrets, copyright and trademark laws, nondisclosure agreements and other contractual provisions and technical measures to protect our intellectual property rights. While we require employees, collaborators, consultants and other third parties to enter into confidentiality and/or non-disclosure agreements where appropriate, any of the following could still occur: • the agreements may be breached; • we may have inadequate remedies for a breach; • the employees, collaborators, consultants and other third parties may apply for patents on improvements to our technologies without assigning ownership rights to us; • proprietary information could be disclosed to our competitors; or • others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or disclose such technologies. If for any of the above reasons our intellectual property is disclosed, invalidated or misappropriated, it would harm our ability to protect our rights and our competitive position. IF WE FAIL TO RETAIN OUR KEY PERSONNEL AND HIRE, TRAIN AND RETAIN QUALIFIED EMPLOYEES, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO COMPETE EFFECTIVELY, WHICH COULD RESULT IN REDUCED REVENUES. Our future success will depend on the continued services and on the performance of our senior management, scientific staff, and key employees. If a competitor hired members of our senior management staff, scientific staff, or key employees, or if for any reason these employees do not continue to work for us, we may have difficulty hiring employees with equivalent skills. In addition, our researchers, scientists and technicians have significant experience in research and development related to the analysis of genetic variations. If we were to lose these employees to our competitors or otherwise, we could spend a significant amount of time and resources to replace them, which could impair our 18 Table of Contents research and development efforts. Further, in order to scale up our commercialization activity and to further our research and development efforts, we will need to hire, train and retain additional sales, marketing, research, scientific, and technical personnel. If we are unable to hire, train and retain the personnel we need, we may experience delays in the research, development and commercialization of our technologies and products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. IF WE FAIL TO MAINTAIN REGULATORY APPROVALS AND CLEARANCES, OR ARE UNABLE TO OBTAIN, OR EXPERIENCE SIGNIFICANT DELAYS IN OBTAINING, FDA CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS FOR OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS OR PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS, OUR ABILITY TO COMMERCIALLY DISTRIBUTE AND MARKET THESE PRODUCTS COULD SUFFER. THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT THE FDA WILL GRANT 510(K) CLEARANCE OR PMA APPROVAL OF OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS AND FAILURE TO OBTAIN NECESSARY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS FOR OUR FUTURE PRODUCTS WOULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO GROW OUR BUSINESS. The majority of our current clinical diagnostic products are sold as ASRs. The FDA restricts the sale of these products to clinical laboratories certified under CLIA to perform high complexity testing and also restricts the types of products that can be sold as ASRs. We believe most of our products currently marketed pursuant to FDA regulations as ASRs, as well as many products we intend to market in the future as ASRs, are exempt from the 510(k) premarket notification and premarket approval requirements. However, as discussed immediately below, the regulatory status of some of these products may change. In 2006, followed by additional clarification in 2007, the FDA issued guidance concerning acceptable examples of IVD reagents that meet the threshold of the ASR regulations. In this guidance, the FDA outlined examples of products and marketing practices that go beyond the scope of the ASR regulations making the reagent part of a test system potentially subject to premarket review. These examples include combining, or promoting for use, a single ASR with another product such as other ASRs, general purpose reagents, controls, laboratory equipment, software, etc., or promoting an ASR with specific analytical or performance claims, instructions for use in a particular test, or instructions for validation of a specific test using the ASR. As a result of this recent guidance, the FDA may require that we obtain, or we may choose to obtain, regulatory clearances or approvals for certain of our products or their applications, as was done for our Invader UGT1A1 Molecular Assay. While we believe our ASR products are in substantial compliance with this guidance, the FDA may disagree. In that event, we could experience significant revenue loss, additional expense and loss of our clinical customer base which would cause the market price of our stock to decline. In general, our clinical diagnostic products other than those exempt under the ASR regulations, require either a premarket notification clearance, known as a 510(k), or a premarket approval, known as a PMA from the FDA. With respect to products reviewed through the 510(k) process, we may not market a product until an order is issued by the FDA finding our product to be substantially equivalent to a legally marketed product known as a predicate device. A 510(k) submission may involve the presentation of a substantial volume of data, including clinical data, and may require a substantial review. The FDA may agree that the product is substantially equivalent to a predicate device and allow the product to be marketed in the U.S. The FDA, however, may determine that the device is not substantially equivalent and require a PMA, or require further information, such as additional test data, including data from clinical studies, before it is able to make a determination regarding substantial equivalence. If, after reviewing the 510(k), the FDA determines there is no predicate device, we may request that the FDA use the process known as de novo classification and clear the device through that process, rather than a PMA. De novo classification is intended to be used for lower-risk products. By requesting additional information, the FDA can further delay market introduction of our products. A PMA must be submitted to the FDA if the device cannot be cleared through the 510(k) process. A PMA must be supported by extensive data, including but not limited to, technical, preclinical, clinical trials, manufacturing and labeling to demonstrate to the FDA’s satisfaction the safety and effectiveness of the device for its intended use. No device that we are marketing to date has required premarket approval. During the review period, the FDA will typically request additional information or clarification of the information already provided. Also, an advisory 19 Table of Contents panel of experts from outside the FDA may be convened to review and evaluate the application and provide recommendations to the FDA as to the approvability of the device. The FDA may or may not accept the panel’s recommendation. In addition, the FDA will generally conduct a pre-approval inspection of the manufacturing facility or facilities to ensure compliance with the Good Manufacturing Practice regulations, known as the Quality System Regulation, or QSR. Clinical trials are generally required to support a PMA application and are sometimes required for 510(k) clearance. Such trials generally require an investigational device exemption application, or IDE, approved in advance by the FDA for a specified number of patients and study sites, unless the product is deemed a nonsignificant risk device eligible for more abbreviated IDE requirements. Clinical trials are subject to extensive monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Clinical trials must be conducted under the oversight of an institutional review board, or IRB, for the relevant clinical trial sites and must comply with FDA regulations, including but not limited to those relating to good clinical practices. To conduct a clinical trial, we also are required to obtain the patients’ informed consent in form and substance that complies with both FDA requirements and state and federal privacy and human subject protection regulations. We, the FDA or the IRB could suspend a clinical trial at any time for various reasons, including a belief that the risks to study subjects outweigh the anticipated benefits. Even if a trial is completed, the results of clinical testing may not adequately demonstrate the safety and efficacy of the device or may otherwise not be sufficient to obtain FDA approval to market the product in the U.S. Failure to comply with FDA requirements could result in the FDA’s refusal to accept the data and/or the imposition of regulatory sanctions. As most in-vitro diagnostic devices are exempt from FDA’s IDE regulations, we do not believe that our future products will require an IDE clinical study. To date, we have applied for FDA clearance with respect to two of our clinical diagnostic products. We obtained clearance for our Invader UGT1A1 Molecular Assay in August 2005. Currently, one of our key strategic initiatives is the commercialization of our Human Papillomavirus (HPV) offering. In August 2006, we began clinical trials for two HPV premarket approval submissions to the FDA. We expect to spend $17-18 million on these submissions over three years. If for any reason these trials are not successful or are substantially delayed or for any other reason we are unable to successfully commercialize our HPV offering, our business and prospects would likely be materially adversely impacted. We plan to seek additional FDA approvals or clearances in the future, however, we cannot predict the likelihood of obtaining those approvals or clearances. There can be no assurance that regulatory approval or clearance of any clinical products for which we seek such approvals will be granted by the FDA on a timely basis, if at all. Delays in receipt or failure to receive approvals, the loss of previously received approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. EVEN IF OUR PRODUCTS ARE APPROVED OR CLEARED BY REGULATORY AUTHORITIES, IF WE FAIL TO COMPLY WITH ONGOING FDA OR OTHER FOREIGN REGULATORY AUTHORITY REQUIREMENTS, OR IF WE EXPERIENCE UNANTICIPATED PROBLEMS WITH OUR PRODUCTS, THESE PRODUCTS COULD BE SUBJECT TO RESTRICTIONS OR WITHDRAWAL FROM THE MARKET. As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register our facility and list our products with the FDA. In addition, we are required to comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulation (QSR), which requires our devices be manufactured and records be maintained in a prescribed manner with respect to design and development, manufacturing, testing and control activities. Further, we are required to comply with FDA requirements for labeling and promotion. For example, the FDA prohibits cleared or approved devices from being promoted for uncleared or unapproved uses, otherwise known as “off-label” promotion. In addition, the medical device reporting regulation requires that we provide information to the FDA whenever there is evidence to reasonably suggest that one of our devices may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or that a product has malfunctioned in such a way that it would be likely to cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. Under FDA regulatory requirements, we may not make claims about the performance, intended clinical use or efficacy of ASR products, and we may provide only limited information to laboratories concerning these products. 20 Table of Contents There also are restrictions on the concurrent marketing of components that can be used to develop an assay and other restrictions as well. Our manufacturing facility is subject to periodic and unannounced inspections by the FDA for compliance with QSR. Additionally, the FDA often will conduct a preapproval inspection for PMA devices. If the FDA believes we are not in compliance with applicable laws or regulations, the agency can institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from issuance of warning letters or untitled letters; fines and civil penalties; unanticipated expenditures to address or defend such actions; delaying or refusing to clear or approve our products; withdrawal or suspension of approval of products or those of our third-party suppliers by the FDA or other regulatory bodies; product recall or seizure; orders for physician notification or device repair, replacement or refund; interruption of production; operating restrictions; injunctions; and criminal prosecution. Any customers using our products for clinical use in the U.S. are regulated under CLIA. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the U.S. by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. We cannot assure you that the CLIA regulations and future administrative interpretations of CLIA will not have a material adverse impact on us by limiting the potential market for our products. The regulations promulgated under CLIA establish three levels of clinical tests and the standards applicable to a clinical laboratory depend on the level of the tests it performs. CLIA requirements may prevent some clinical laboratories, including those laboratories that do not comply with those requirements, from using some or all of our products. In addition, CLIA regulations and future administrative interpretations of CLIA could harm our business by limiting the potential market for some or all of our products. MODIFICATIONS TO OUR PRODUCTS MAY REQUIRE NEW REGULATORY CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS OR MAY REQUIRE US TO RECALL OR CEASE MARKETING OUR PRODUCTS UNTIL CLEARANCES OR APPROVALS ARE OBTAINED. Any modification to a 510(k)-cleared device that would constitute a major change in its intended use, or any change that could significantly affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, requires a new 510(k) clearance and may, in some circumstances, require a PMA, if the change raises complex or novel scientific issues or the product has a new intended use. The FDA requires every manufacturer to make the determination regarding the need for a new 510(k) submission in the first instance, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision. The FDA on its own initiative may determine that a new clearance or approval is required. We have made modifications to our products in the past and may make additional modifications in the future that we believe do not or will not require additional clearances or approvals. If the FDA disagrees and requires new clearances or approvals for the modifications, we may be required to recall and to stop marketing our products as modified, which could require us to redesign our products and harm our operating results. In these circumstances, we may be subject to significant enforcement actions. New PMAs or PMA supplements are required for modifications that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device, including, for example, certain types of modifications to the device’s indication for use, manufacturing process, labeling and design. PMA supplements often require submission of the same type of information as a PMA, except that the supplement is limited to information needed to support any changes from the device covered by the original PMA and may not require extensive clinical data or the convening of an advisory panel. There is no guarantee that the FDA will grant PMA approval of our future products, if required, and failure to obtain necessary approvals for our future products would adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Delays in receipt or failure to receive approvals, the loss of previously received approvals, or the failure to comply with existing or future regulatory requirements could reduce our sales, profitability and future growth prospects. FEDERAL REGULATORY REFORMS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO SELL OUR PRODUCTS PROFITABLY. From time to time, legislation is drafted and introduced in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the marketing approval, manufacture and marketing of a regulated product. In addition, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may 21 Table of Contents significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether legislative changes will be enacted or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations changed, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Congress has recently enacted, and the President has signed into law, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (the “FDA Amendments”). The FDA Amendments require certain information about clinical trials for drugs, biologics, and medical devices, including a description of the trial, participation criteria, location of trial sites, and contact information, to be sent to the National Institutes of Health (“NIH”) for inclusion in a publicly-assessable database. We also are now required to submit to the NIH the results of certain clinical trials, other than Phase I studies, if any of our products are required to undergo clinical evaluation. Compliance with those regulations may require us to take additional steps in the development and manufacture of our products and labeling. These steps may require additional resources and could be costly. In addition, as discussed above, in 2006 and 2007 the FDA issued guidance documents concerning regulation of ASRs that may have an adverse impact on our ability to sell certain of our ASR products. OUR INTERNATIONAL SALES ARE SUBJECT TO CURRENCY, MARKET AND REGULATORY RISKS THAT ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. In 2007 we derived approximately 11% of our product revenues from sales to international end-users and we expect that international sales will continue to account for a portion of our sales. Changes in the rate of exchange of foreign currencies into U.S. dollars have and will continue to impact our revenues and results of operations. The extent and complexity of medical products regulation are increasing worldwide, with regulation in some countries nearly as extensive as in the U.S. Further, we must comply with import and export regulations when distributing our products to foreign nations. Each foreign country’s regulatory requirements for product approval and distribution are unique and may require the expenditure of substantial time, money and effort. As a result, we may not be able to successfully commercialize our products in foreign markets at or beyond the level of commercialization we have already achieved. OUR FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ANY APPLICABLE ENVIRONMENTAL, HEALTH, SAFETY AND RELATED GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS MAY AFFECT OUR ABILITY TO DEVELOP, PRODUCE OR MARKET OUR POTENTIAL PRODUCTS AND MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR RESULTS OF OPERATIONS. Our research, development and manufacturing activities involve the use, transportation, storage and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to related environmental and health and safety statutes and regulations as regulated by various government agencies such as the Federal Aviation Administration, or FAA, and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or EPA. As we expand our operations, our increased use of hazardous substances will lead to additional and more stringent requirements. This may cause us to incur substantial costs to maintain compliance with applicable statutes and regulations. In addition, we are obligated to file a report to the EPA regarding specified types of microorganisms we use in our operations. The EPA could, upon review of our use of these microorganisms, require us to discontinue their use. If this were to occur, we would have to substitute a different microorganism from the EPA’s approved list. We could experience delays or disruptions in production while we convert to the new microorganism. In addition, any failure to comply with laws and regulations and any costs associated with unexpected and unintended releases of hazardous substances by us into the environment, or at disposal sites used by us, could expose us to substantial liability in the form of fines, penalties, remediation costs or other damages and could require us to shut down our operations. Any of these events would seriously harm our business and operating results. 22 Table of Contents WE MAY BE HELD LIABLE FOR ANY INACCURACIES ASSOCIATED WITH NUCLEIC ACID TESTS PERFORMED USING OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH MAY REQUIRE US TO DEFEND OURSELVES IN COSTLY LITIGATION. We may be subject to claims resulting from incorrect results of analysis of nucleic acid tests performed using our products. Litigating any such claims could be costly. We could expend significant funds during any litigation proceeding brought against us. Further, if a court were to require us to pay damages to a plaintiff, the amount of such damages could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. WE HAVE VARIOUS MECHANISMS IN PLACE THAT A STOCKHOLDER MAY NOT CONSIDER FAVORABLE AND WHICH MAY DISCOURAGE POTENTIAL ACQUISITIONS. Certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, and certain provisions in our executive compensation plans, long-term incentive plans and employment and similar agreements may discourage, delay or prevent potential acquisition transactions for our Company, including, in particular, unsolicited acquisition proposals. These provisions include: • authorizing our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of these shares without any further approval of our stockholders, which could increase the number of outstanding shares or thwart an unsolicited takeover attempt; • a shareholders rights plan under which rights holders (except the acquirer) would be entitled to acquire Third Wave common stock at a significant discount upon the occurrence of a person or group acquiring 15 percent or more of Third Wave’s common stock and which discourages acquisitions of 15 percent or more of Third Wave’s common stock without negotiation with the Board of Directors; • establishing a classified Board of Directors with staggered, three-year terms, which may lengthen the time required to gain control of our Board of Directors; • requiring super-majority voting to effect certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation and bylaws; • limiting who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting stockholder action by written consent, which requires all actions to be taken at a meeting of stockholders; • establishing advance notice requirements for nominations of candidates for election to the Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • payments due to executive officers and other employees under executive compensation plans, long-term incentive plans and employment and similar agreements that could be triggered by certain change of control events. A change of control could be beneficial to stockholders in a situation in which the acquisition price being paid by the party seeking to acquire us represented a substantial premium over the prevailing market price of our common stock. If our board of directors were not in favor of such a transaction, the provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws described above could be used by our board of directors to delay or reduce the likelihood of completion of the acquisition. OUR PRINCIPAL STOCKHOLDERS WILL HAVE SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OVER OUR AFFAIRS. As of December 31, 2007, stockholders that owned 5% or more of our outstanding shares owned, in the aggregate, approximately 17% of our common stock on a fully diluted basis. These stockholders, acting together, will have the ability to exert substantial influence over all matters requiring approval by our stockholders. These matters include the election and removal of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, they may dictate the management of our business and affairs. This concentration of ownership could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control, or impeding a merger or consolidation, takeover or other business combination of which you might otherwise approve. 23 Table of Contents RISKS RELATED TO THE BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY PUBLIC OPINION REGARDING ETHICAL ISSUES SURROUNDING THE USE OF GENETIC INFORMATION MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS. Public opinion regarding ethical issues related to the confidentiality and appropriate use of genetic testing results may influence governmental authorities to call for limits on, or regulation of the use of, genetic testing. In addition, such authorities could prohibit testing for genetic predisposition to certain conditions, particularly for those that have no known cure. Furthermore, adverse publicity or public opinion relating to genetic research and testing, even in the absence of any governmental regulation, could harm our business. Any of these scenarios could reduce the potential markets for our products, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues. GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF GENETIC RESEARCH OR TESTING MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE DEMAND FOR OUR PRODUCTS AND IMPAIR OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS. Federal, state, local and foreign governments may adopt further regulations relating to the conduct of genetic research and genetic testing. These new regulations could limit or restrict genetic research activities as well as genetic testing for research or clinical purposes. In addition, if state and local regulations are adopted, these regulations may be inconsistent with, or in conflict with, regulations adopted by other state or local governments. Foreign regulations may be inconsistent with, or in conflict with U.S. regulations. Regulations relating to genetic research activities could adversely affect our ability to conduct our research and development activities. Regulations restricting genetic testing could adversely affect our ability to market and sell our products. Accordingly, any regulations of this nature could harm our business. HEALTH CARE COST CONTAINMENT INITIATIVES COULD LIMIT THE ADOPTION OF GENETIC TESTING AS A CLINICAL TOOL, WHICH WOULD HARM OUR REVENUES AND PROSPECTS. In recent years, health care payors as well as federal and state governments have focused on containing or reducing health care costs. We cannot predict the effect that any of these initiatives may have on our business, and it is possible that they will adversely affect our business. Health care cost containment initiatives focused on genetic testing could cause the growth in the clinical market for genetic testing to be curtailed or slowed. In addition, health care cost containment initiatives could also cause pharmaceutical companies to reduce research and development spending. In either case, our business and our operating results would be harmed. In addition, genetic testing in clinical settings is often billed to third-party payors, including private insurers and governmental organizations. If our current and future clinical products are not considered cost-effective by these payors, reimbursement may not be available to users of our products. In this event, potential customers would be much less likely to use our products, and our business and operating results would be seriously harmed. REIMBURSEMENT FOR USE OF OUR PRODUCTS Sales of our products will depend, in large part, on the availability of adequate reimbursement to users of those products from government insurance plans, managed care organizations and private insurance plans. Physicians’ recommendations to use our products are likely to be influenced by the availability of reimbursement by insurance companies and other third-party payors. There can be no assurance that insurance companies or third-party payors will provide or continue to provide coverage for our products or that reimbursement levels will be adequate for the reimbursement of the providers of our products. In addition, outside the U.S., reimbursement systems vary from country to country and there can be no assurances that third-party reimbursement will be made available at an adequate level, if at all, for our products under any other reimbursement system. Lack of or inadequate reimbursement by government or other third-party payors for our products would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 24 Table of Contents 