Item 1A. Risk Factors If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, we may be unable to increase or maintain our revenue. If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, both as currently comprised and as we may offer them in the future, our revenue could decline. To be successful, we will need to continue to enter into agreements covering a larger number of IC products and processes with existing customers and new customers. We need to develop new customer relationships with companies that are integrated device manufacturers, fabless semiconductor companies, and foundries, as well as system manufacturers so that we can continue to implement our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions and experience greater market acceptance of our solutions. Factors that may limit adoption of our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions by semiconductor companies include: • our customers’ failure to achieve satisfactory yield improvements using our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions; • a decrease in demand for semiconductors generally or the slowing of demand for deep submicron semiconductors; • our inability to develop, market, or sell effective solutions that are outside of our traditional MPS logic focus; • our existing and potential customers’ delay in their adoption of the next process technology; • the development in the industry of alternative methods to enhance the integration between the semiconductor design and manufacturing processes due to a rapidly evolving market and the emergence of new technologies; • our existing and potential customers’ reluctance to understand and accept our innovative gainshare performance incentives fee component; and • our customers’ concern about our ability to keep highly competitive information confidential. We generate a large percentage of our total revenue from a limited number of customers, so the loss of any one of these customers could significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations below expectations. Historically, we have had a small number of large customers for our core Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions and we expect this to continue in the near term. In the year ended December 31, 2007, two customers accounted for 35% of our total net revenue, with Toshiba Corporation representing 19% and International Business Machines Corporation representing 16%. In the year ended December 31, 2006, two customers accounted for 37% of our total net revenue, with International Business Machines Corporation representing 25% and Toshiba Corporation representing 12%. We could lose a customer due to its decision not to engage us on future process nodes, its decision not to develop its own future process node, or as a result of industry consolidation. The loss of any of these customers or a decrease in the sales volumes of their products could significantly reduce our total revenue below expectations. In particular, such a loss could cause significant fluctuations in results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term and it takes us a long time to replace customers. If integrated device manufacturers of logic integrated circuits reduce investment in new process technology as a result of a shift to a fabless manufacturing business model, the pool of potential logic customers for our yield ramp solutions will shrink and our results of operations may suffer. Historically, the majority of our revenue from integrated yield ramps has been derived from IDM of logic IC. If IDMs decide to discontinue or significantly cut back their investment in the development of new process technology as a result of a shift to a model of outsourcing a larger proportion, or all, of the mass production of their ICs, there may be fewer IDMs that are potential customers for our solutions that integrate product designs with in-house manufacturing processes. As a result, the revenue we are able to generate from integrated yield ramps for logic ICs could fall below levels that are currently expected. Also, because our expenses are fixed in the short term and it takes 10 Table of Contents a long time for us to replace customers, such a reduction in revenue could cause significant fluctuations in results of operations. If we do not effectively manage and support our operations and integrate recent and planned growth, our business strategy may fail. We will need to continue to grow in all areas of operation and successfully integrate and support our existing and new employees into our operations, or we may be unable to implement our business strategy in the time frame we anticipate, if at all. We have in the past, and may in the future, experienced interruptions in our information systems on which our global operations depend. Further, physical damage to, failure of, or digital damage (such as significant viruses or worms) to, our information systems could disrupt and delay time-sensitive services or computing operations that we perform for our customers, which could negatively impact our business results and reputation. In addition, we will need to expand our intranet to support new data centers to enhance our research and development efforts. Our intranet is expensive to expand and must be highly secure due to the sensitive nature of our customers’ information that we transmit. Building and managing the support necessary for our growth places significant demands on our management and resources. In addition, we may need to switch to a new accounting system in the near future, which could disrupt our business operations and distract management. These demands may divert these resources from the continued growth of our business and implementation of our business strategy. Further, we must adequately train our new personnel, especially our client service and technical support personnel, to effectively and accurately, respond to and support our customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our customers, which could slow our growth. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, customers or potential competitors may be able to use our technologies to develop their own solutions which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, or increase our costs. Our success depends largely on the proprietary nature of our technologies. We currently rely primarily on contractual, patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, and even if issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Also, patent protection in foreign countries may be limited or unavailable where we need such protection. Litigation may be necessary from time to time to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Litigation could also divert our resources, including our managerial and engineering resources. Competition in the market for yield improvement solutions and increased integration between IC design and manufacturing may intensify in the future, which could impede our ability to grow or execute our strategy. Competition in our market may intensify in the future, which could slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy and could lead to increased pricing pressure. Our current and potential customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions. Many of these companies have the financial and technical capability to develop their own solutions. Also, competitors could establish non-domestic operations with a lower cost structure than our engineering organization, which, unless we also establish lower cost non-domestic operations, would give any such competitor’s products a competitive advantage over our solutions. There may be other providers of commercial solutions for systematic IC yield and performance enhancement of which we are not aware. We currently face indirect competition from the internal groups at IC companies and some direct competition from providers of yield management or prediction software such as KLA-Tencor, MKS (through its acquisition of Yield Dynamics, Inc.), Ponte Solutions, Syntricity Inc., TIBCO Software Inc. (through its acquisition of Spotfire Inc.), and Synopsys, and process control software, such as Applied Materials, Inc., Triant Holdings Inc., Straatum Processware Ltd., and MKS. Further, ARM Ltd. and Virage Logic Corporation provide standard cells in the physical IP space, which could compete with our pdBRIX solution. Some providers of yield management software or inspection equipment may seek to broaden their product offerings and compete with us. For example, KLA-Tencor has announced adding the use of test structures to one of their 11 Table of Contents inspection product lines. In addition, we believe that the demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the silicon design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter into our market. For example, large integrated organizations, such as IDMs, electronic design automation software providers, IC design service companies or semiconductor equipment vendors, may decide to spin-off a business unit that competes with us. Other potential competitors include fabrication facilities that may decide to offer solutions competitive with ours as part of their value proposition to their customers. In addition, Synopsys, Inc. now appears to offer directly competing DFM, while other EDA suppliers provide alternative DFM solutions that may compete for the same budgetary funds. If these potential competitors change the pricing environment or are able to attract industry partners or customers faster than we can, we may not be able to grow and execute our strategy as quickly or at all. In addition, customer preferences may shift away from our solutions as a result of the increase in competition. We face operational and financial risks associated with international operations that could negatively impact our revenue. We derive a majority of our revenue from international sales, principally from customers based in Asia. Revenue generated from customers in Asia accounted for 55% of total revenue in the year ended December 31, 2007 and 50% in the year ended December 31, 2006. We expect that a significant portion of our total future revenue will continue to be derived from companies based in Asia. In addition, we have expanded our non-U.S. operations recently and plan to continue such expansion by establishing overseas subsidiaries, offices, or contractor relationships in locations, and when, deemed appropriate by our management. The success of our business is subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally. These risks include: • some of our key engineers and other personnel are foreign nationals and they may have difficulty gaining access to the United States and other countries in which our customers or our offices may be located and it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees in foreign offices; • greater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods; • language and other cultural differences may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and foreign research and development teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple, remote locations performing various development, quality assurance, and yield ramp analysis projects; • compliance with, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to protection of our intellectual property, and a wide variety of trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law; • currency risk due to the fact that expenses for our international offices are denominated in the local currency, including the Euro, while virtually all of our revenue is denominated in U.S. dollars; • quarantine, private travel limitation, or business disruption in regions affecting our operations, stemming from actual, imminent or perceived outbreak of human pandemic or contagious disease; • in the event a larger portion of our revenue becomes denominated in foreign currencies, we would be subject to a potentially significant exchange rate risk; and • economic or political instability, including but not limited to armed conflict, terrorism, and the resulting disruption to economic activity and business operations. In Japan, in particular, we face the following additional risks: • a downturn in Asian economies which could limit our ability to retain existing customers and attract new ones in Asia; and • if the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to the Japanese Yen, the cost of our solutions will be more expensive to existing and potential Japanese customers and therefore less competitive. In the Middle East, we use a third-party service provider, whose operations are not located in a U.S. embargoed country, to provide certain software quality assurance and other services for certain of our software products. The 12 Table of Contents political uncertainty surrounding the region could disrupt our third-party service provider’s operations and thus negatively affect the range of services we are able to provide. Our earnings per share and other key operating results may be unusually high in a given quarter, thereby raising investors’ expectations, and then unusually low in the next quarter, thereby disappointing investors, which could cause our stock price to drop. Historically, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated. Our future quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate from time to time and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some future period. The price of our common stock could decline due to such fluctuations. The following factors may cause significant fluctuations in our future quarterly operating results: • the size and timing of sales volumes achieved by our customers’ products; • the loss of any of our large customers or an adverse change in any of our large customers’ businesses; • the size of improvements in our customers’ yield and the timing of agreement as to those improvements; • our long and variable sales cycle; • changes in the mix of our revenue; • changes in the level of our operating expenses needed to support our projected growth; and • delays in completing solution implementations for our customers. Revenue from our gainshare performance incentives is dependent on factors outside of our control, including the volume of integrated circuits that our customers are able to sell to their customers. Our gainshare performance incentives fee component ties the profits of our customers to our own. Through this component, revenue for a particular product is largely determined by the volume of that product that our customer is able to sell to its customers, which is outside of our control. We have limited ability to predict the success or failure of our customers’ IC products. Further, our customers may decide to implement changes to their manufacturing processes during the period that is covered by gainshare performance incentives component, which could negatively affect yield results; a decision which is beyond our control. In addition, we may commit a significant amount of time and resources to a customer who is ultimately unable to sell as many units as we had anticipated when contracting with them or who makes unplanned changes to their processes. Since we currently work on a small number of large projects, any product that does not achieve commercial viability or a significant increase in yield could significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations below expectations. In addition, if we work with two directly competitive products, volume in one may offset volume, and thus any of our related gainshare performance incentives, in the other product. Further, decreased demand for semiconductor products decreases the volume of products our customers are able to sell, which may adversely affect our gainshare performance incentives revenue. Measurement of our gainshare performance incentives requires data collection and is subject to customer agreement, which can result in uncertainty and cause quarterly results to fluctuate. We can only recognize revenue based on gainshare performance incentives once we have reached agreement with our customers on their level of yield performance improvements. Because measuring the amount of yield improvement is inherently complicated and dependent on our customers’ internal information systems, there may be uncertainty as to some components of measurement. This could result in our recognition of less revenue than expected. In addition, any delay in measuring revenue attributable to our gainshare performance incentives could cause all of the associated revenue to be delayed until the next quarter. Since we currently have only a few large customers and we are relying on gainshare performance incentives as a significant component of our total revenue, any delay could significantly harm our quarterly results. 13 Table of Contents Changes in the structure of our customer contracts, including the mix between fixed and variable revenue and the mix of elements, can adversely affect the size and timing of our total revenue. Our long-term success is largely dependent upon our ability to structure our future customer contracts to include a larger gainshare performance incentives component relative to the fixed fee component. We typically recognize the fixed fee component earlier than gainshare performance incentives component so if we are successful in increasing the gainshare performance incentives component of our customer contracts, we will experience an adverse impact on our operating results in the short term as we reduce the fixed fee component. Due to acquisitions and expanded business strategies, the mix of elements in some of our contracts has changed recently and the relative importance of the software component in some of our contracts has increased. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the expected recognition of revenue associated with generally accepted accounting principles regarding the timing of revenue recognition in multi-element software arrangements, including the effect of acceptance criteria as a result of the change in our contracts. If we fail to meet contractual acceptance criteria on time or at all, the total revenue we receive under a contract could be delayed or decline. In addition, by increasing the gainshare performance incentives or the software component, we may increase the variability or timing of recognition of our revenue, and therefore increase the risk that our total future revenue will be lower than expected and fluctuate significantly from period to period. It typically takes us a long time to sell our unique solutions to new customers, which can result in uncertainty and delays in generating additional revenue. Because our gainshare performance incentives business model is unique and our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions are unfamiliar to some new customers, our sales cycle is lengthy and requires a significant amount of our senior management’s time and effort. Furthermore, we need to target those individuals within a customer’s organization who have overall responsibility for the profitability of an IC. These individuals tend to be senior management or executive officers. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such individuals. Even after initial acceptance, due to the complexity of structuring the gainshare performance incentives component, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy. It can take nine months or more to reach a signed contract with a customer. Unexpected delays in our sales cycle could cause our revenue to fall short of expectations. We have a history of losses, we may incur losses in the future and we may be unable to maintain profitability. We have experienced losses in the past and in the current fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. We may not achieve and thereafter maintain profitability if our revenue increases more slowly than we expect or not at all. In addition, virtually all of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term, so any shortfall in anticipated revenue in a given period could significantly reduce our operating results below expectations. Our accumulated deficit was $16.9 million as of December 31, 2007. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with: • funding for research and development; • expansion of our solution implementation teams; • expansion of our sales and marketing efforts; and • additional non-cash charges relating to amortization of intangibles and stock-based compensation. As a result, we will need to significantly increase revenue to maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. Any of these factors could cause our stock price to decline. We may experience significant fluctuations in operating results due to the cyclical nature of the semiconductor industry. Our revenue is highly dependent upon the overall condition of the semiconductor industry, especially in light of our gainshare performance incentives revenue component. The semiconductor industry is highly cyclical and subject to rapid technological change and has been subject to significant economic downturns at various times, 14 Table of Contents characterized by diminished product demand, accelerated erosion of average selling prices, and production overcapacity. The semiconductor industry also periodically experiences increased demand and production capacity constraints. As a result, we may experience significant fluctuations in operating results due to general semiconductor industry conditions and overall economic conditions. We must continually attract and retain highly talented executives, engineers, and research and development personnel or we will be unable to expand our business as planned. In order to stay competitive, we will need to continue to hire highly talented executives, engineers, and research and development personnel to support our planned growth. We have experienced, and we expect to continue to experience, delays and limitations in hiring and retaining highly skilled individuals with appropriate qualifications. We intend to continue to hire foreign nationals, particularly as we expand our operations internationally. We have had, and expect to continue to have, difficulty in obtaining visas permitting entry into the United States for several of our key personnel, which disrupts our ability to strategically locate our personnel. If we lose the services of any of our key executives or a significant number of our engineers, it could disrupt our ability to implement our business strategy. Competition for executives and qualified engineers can be intense, especially in Silicon Valley where we are principally based. If our products, technologies, services, and integrated solutions fail to keep pace with the rapid technological changes in the semiconductor industry, we could lose customers and revenue. We must continually devote significant engineering resources to enable us to keep up with the rapidly evolving technologies and equipment used in the semiconductor design and manufacturing processes. These innovations are inherently complex and require long development cycles. Not only do we need the technical expertise to implement the changes necessary to keep our technologies current, we also rely heavily on the judgment of our advisors and management to anticipate future market trends. Our customers expect us to stay ahead of the technology curve and expect that our products, technologies, services, and integrated solutions will support any new design or manufacturing processes or materials as soon as they are deployed. If we are not able to timely predict industry changes, or if we are unable to modify our products, technologies, services, and integrated solutions on a timely basis, our existing solutions will be rendered obsolete and we may lose customers. If we do not keep pace with technology, our existing and potential customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally as an alternative to ours and we could lose market share, which could adversely affect our operating results. We intend to pursue additional strategic relationships, which are necessary to maximize our growth, but could substantially divert management attention and resources. In order to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry leaders at each stage of the IC design and manufacturing processes, we may need to expend significant resources and will need to commit a significant amount of management’s time and attention, with no guarantee of success. If we are unable to enter into strategic relationships with these companies, we will not be as effective at modeling existing technologies or at keeping ahead of the technology curve as new technologies are introduced. In the past, the absence of an established working relationship with key companies in the industry has meant that we have had to exclude the effect of their component parts from our modeling analysis, which reduces the overall effectiveness of our analysis and limits our ability to improve yield. We may be unable to establish key industry strategic relationships if any of the following occur: • potential industry partners become concerned about our ability to protect their intellectual property; • potential industry partners develop their own solutions to address the need for yield improvement; • our potential competitors establish relationships with industry partners with which we seek to establish a relationship; or • potential industry partners attempt to restrict our ability to enter into relationships with their competitors. 15 Table of Contents Our solution implementations may take longer than we anticipate, which could cause us to lose customers and may result in adjustments to our operating results. Our solution implementations require a team of engineers to collaborate with our customers to address complex yield loss issues by using our software and other technologies. We must estimate the amount of time needed to complete an existing solution implementation in order to estimate when the engineers will be able to commence a new solution implementation. In addition, our accounting for solution implementation contracts, which generate fixed fees, sometimes require adjustments to profit and loss based on revised estimates during the performance of the contract. These adjustments may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these risks, which are inherent in fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, and contract revenues related to contract performance. Key executive officers are critical to our business and we cannot guarantee that they will remain with us indefinitely. Our future success will depend to a significant extent on the continued services of our key executive officers. If we lose the services of any of our key executive officers, it could slow execution of our business plan, hinder our product development processes and impair our sales efforts. Searching for replacements could divert our senior management’s time and increase our operating expenses. In addition, our industry partners and customers could become concerned about our future operations, which could injure our reputation and cause our stock price to drop. We do not have long-term employment agreements with our executives and we do not maintain any key person life insurance policies on their lives. Inadvertent disclosure of our customers’ confidential information could result in costly litigation and cause us to lose existing and potential customers. Our customers consider their product yield information and other confidential information, which we must gather in the course of our engagement with the customer, to be extremely competitively sensitive. If we inadvertently disclosed or were required to disclose this information, we would likely lose existing and potential customers and could be subject to costly litigation. In addition, to avoid potential disclosure of confidential information to competitors, some of our customers may, in the future, ask us not to work with key competitive products, which could limit our revenue opportunities. Our technologies could infringe the intellectual property rights of others causing costly litigation and the loss of significant rights. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the semiconductor industry. It is possible that a third party may claim that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or misappropriate their trade secrets. Any claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could adversely affect our business. Defects in our proprietary technologies, hardware and software tools, and the cost of support to remedy any such defects could decrease our revenue and our competitive market share. If the software, hardware, or proprietary technologies we provide to a customer contain defects that increase our customer’s cost of goods sold and time-to-market, these defects could significantly decrease the market acceptance of our solutions. Further, the cost of support resources required to remedy any defects in our technologies, hardware, or software tools could exceed our expectations. Any actual or perceived defects with our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies may also hinder our ability to attract or retain industry partners or customers, leading to a decrease in our revenue. These defects are frequently found during the period following introduction of new software, hardware, or proprietary technologies or enhancements to existing software, hardware, or proprietary technologies. Our software, hardware, and proprietary technologies may contain errors not discovered until after customer implementation of the silicon design and manufacturing process recommended 16 Table of Contents by us. If our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies contain errors or defects, it could require us to expend significant resources to alleviate these problems, which could reduce margins and result in the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. Failing to maintain the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting could cause the cost related to remediation to increase and could cause our stock price to decline. In the future, our management may identify deficiencies regarding the design and effectiveness of our system of internal control over financial reporting that we engage in pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (“Section 404”) as part of our Form 10-K. Such deficiencies could include those arising from turnover of qualified personnel or arising as a result of acquisitions, which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the continuing reporting deadlines imposed by Section 404 and the costs of which may harm our results of operations. In addition, if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that our management can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls. We also may not be able to retain our independent registered public accounting firm with sufficient resources to attest to and report on our internal controls in a timely manner. Moreover, our registered public accounting firm may not agree with our management’s future assessments and may deem our controls as ineffective if we are unable to remediate on a timely basis. If in the future we are unable to assert that we maintain effective internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports that in turn could cause our stock price to decline. We may not be able to expand our business and proprietary technologies if we do not consummate potential acquisitions or investments or successfully integrate them with our business. To expand our proprietary technologies, we may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, or products if appropriate opportunities arise. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments, each of which could slow our growth strategy. We may have difficulty integrating the acquired products, personnel or technologies of any acquisitions we might make. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. We may not be able to raise necessary funds to support our growth or execute our strategy. Unanticipated efforts to support more rapid expansion, develop or enhance Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses or technologies could impact our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds. In such event, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We may not be able to raise any necessary funds on terms favorable to us, or at all. Recent acquisitions may adversely affect our business by diverting management’s attention, increasing our expenses or by being more difficult to integrate than expected. Our success in realizing the strategic benefits, the timing of this realization, and growth opportunities to be gained from incorporating into PDF the operations of recently acquired businesses, including Si Automation S.A. (“SiA”), a French company, acquired in October 2006, and Fabbrix, acquired in May 2007, depend upon our ability to successfully integrate those businesses. The integration of acquired businesses is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining our existing operations associated with acquired businesses include: • consolidating research and development operations; • retaining key employees; • incorporating acquired products and business technology into our existing product lines; • coordinating effective sales and marketing functions; • preserving research and development, marketing, customer and other important relationships; and • minimizing the diversion of management’s attention from ongoing business concerns. 17 Table of Contents If we were required to write down all or part of our goodwill, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. We had $65.2 million of goodwill recorded on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2007. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. If our market capitalization drops significantly below the amount of net equity recorded on our balance sheet, it would indicate a decline in the fair value of the Company and would require us to further evaluate whether our goodwill has been impaired. We also perform an annual review, at December 31, of our goodwill to determine if it has become impaired, in which case we would write down the impaired portion of our goodwill. If we were required to write down all or a significant part of our goodwill, our net earnings and net worth could be materially adversely affected. Changes in effective tax rates could negatively affect our operating results. We conduct our business globally, as a result, are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign countries. Our future tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in accounting policies. Our filings are subject to reviews or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We cannot be sure that any final determination in an audit would not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit, there could be a significant negative effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made. The uncertainty in the credit markets might impact the value of certain auction-rate securities we held at December 31, 2007 and we might have to record impairment charges in the future. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction-rate securities that we classify as available-for-sale securities on our balance sheet. As of December 31, 2007, we held auction-rate securities with a par value of $4.5 million. Auction-rate securities are variable rate debt instruments whose interest rates are reset through a “dutch” auction process at regular intervals, typically every 28 days. A portion of these securities are insured by third party bond insurers and are collateralized by student loans guaranteed by governmental agencies and private entities. Subsequent to December 31, 2007, the Company sold $3.0 million of auction rate securities at par during auctions. Since then, the liquidity of the remaining securities has been negatively impacted by the uncertainty in the credit markets and the exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. In February and March 2008, the remaining $1.5 million in auction-rate securities we held failed to sell at auction due to an insufficient number of bidders. We will further review the value of these securities impairment. If we determine that these securities have been impaired, this will negatively affect our results from operations. In future periods, the estimated fair value of our auction-rate securities could decline further based on market conditions, which could result in additional impairment charges. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 