ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below together with all of the other information included in this report before making an investment decision with regard to our securities. The statements contained in or incorporated into this offering that are not historic facts are forward-looking statements that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by forward-looking statements. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be harmed. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Associated With Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and results of operations. We have a relatively limited operating history. Suo’ang BST commenced operations in 2002 and first achieved profitability in the year ended 2004. Accordingly, you should consider our future prospects in light of the risks and uncertainties experienced by early stage companies in evolving industries such as the coal products and alternative energy industry in China. An investor in our securities must consider the risks, uncertainties and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in new and rapidly evolving markets. The risks and difficulties we face include challenges in accurate financial planning as a result of limited historical data and the uncertainties resulting from having had a relatively limited time period in which to implement and evaluate our business strategies as compared to older companies with longer operating histories. We have a very brief operating history as a CWM producer. In December 2006, we decided to solely focus on the research, development, production, marketing and sale of CWM and accordingly phased out our COPO resin products business in January 2007. We signed our first sales contracts for CWM in early 2007, completed our first CWM production line in June 2007, and commenced production and distribution of CWM in July 2007. While we have also recently increased our annual production capacity to 350,000 tonnes, our operating history as a CWM producer is fairly brief, and we cannot assure you that our operations will be able to generate sufficient revenue to continue our operations or that the CWM business will be profitable. We may require additional financing to execute our business plan. The revenues from the sales of CWM may not be adequate to support the expansion of our business. We will need substantial additional funds to build and maintain new production facilities, pursue research and development activities, obtain necessary regulatory approvals and market our business. While we may seek additional funds through public or private equity or debt financing, strategic transactions and/or from other sources, there are no assurances that future funding will be available on favorable terms or at all. If additional funding is not obtained, we may need to reduce, defer or cancel any plans of expansion, including overhead expenditures, to the extent necessary. The failure to fund our capital requirements as they arise would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 8 Our business and results of operations are dependent on the PRC coal markets, which may be cyclical. As the majority of our revenue is derived from sales of CWM, our business and operating results are substantially dependent on the domestic supply of coal, especially washed coal. The PRC coal market is cyclical and exhibits fluctuation in supply and demand from year to year and is subject to numerous factors beyond our control, including, but not limited to, the economic conditions in the PRC, the global economic conditions and fluctuations in industries with high demand for coal, such as the power and steel industries. Fluctuations in supply and demand for coal have effects on coal prices which, in turn, affect our operating and financial performance. The demand for coal is primarily affected by the overall economic development and the demand for coal from the electricity generation, steel and construction industries. The supply of coal, on the other hand, is primarily affected by the geographical location of the coal supplies, the volume of coal produced by domestic and international coal suppliers, and the quality and price of competing sources of coal. Alternative fuels such as natural gas, oil and nuclear power, alternative energy sources such as hydroelectric power, and international shipping costs also have effects on the market demand for coal. Excess demand for coal may have an adverse effect on coal prices which would, in turn, cause a decline in our profitability. A significant increase in domestic coal prices could also materially and adversely affect our business and result of operations. Our business relies on our major customers. Four customers accounted for approximately 49% of our total sales in 2008, namely, Shaanxi Tongchuan Yitong High Tension Insulator Factory, Shaanxi Huayuan Paper Enterprise Co., Ltd., Xi’an Lijun Drug Manufacturing Factory and Shaanxi Sanxin Group. Given that a large percentage of our revenue was derived from sales to these four customers, any adverse developments to their respective business operations could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Our business and prospects will be adversely affected if we are not able to compete effectively. We face competition in all areas of our business. While we have no direct competitor for CWM in Shaanxi Province where we are based, there are other CWM producers in other areas of China that may look to expand their business into our market. Additionally, we must compete against producers of other forms of energy such as coal, gas and oil, which may have broader market acceptance. Some of our competitors may have greater financial, marketing, distribution and technological resources than we have, and they may have more well-known brand names in the marketplace. If we are unable to compete effectively against our competitors, this may have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. We may suffer losses resulting from industry-related accidents and lack of insurance. Our manufacturing facilities may be affected by water, gas, fire or structural problems. As a result, we, like other coal-based products companies, may experience accidents that will cause property damage and personal injuries. Although we have implemented safety measures for our production facilities and provided on-the-job training for our employees, there can be no assurance that industry-related accidents will not occur in the future. Additionally, the risk of accidental contamination or injury from handling and disposing of our product cannot be completely eliminated. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for resulting damages. We do not currently maintain fire, casualty or other property insurance covering our properties, equipment or inventories, other than with respect to vehicles. In addition, we do not maintain any business interruption insurance or any third party liability insurance to cover claims related to personal injury, property or environmental damage arising from accidents on our properties, other than third party liability insurance with respect to vehicles. Any uninsured losses and liabilities incurred by us could exceed our resources and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, we could incur significant costs to comply with PRC environmental laws and regulations in the future. Our operations are subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC. We are also subject to a number of risks relating to the PRC, including the following: · The PRC government currently supports the development and operation of clean coal technology such as CWM. If the PRC government changes its current policies that are currently beneficial to us, we may face significant constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations or to maximize our profitability. · Under current PRC regulatory requirements, projects for the development of CWM require approval of the PRC government. If we are required to undertake any such projects for our growth or for cost reduction and we do not obtain the necessary approval on a timely basis or at all, our financial condition and operating performances could be adversely affected. 9 · The PRC government has been reforming, and is expected to continue to reform its economic system. Many of the reforms are unprecedented or experimental, and are expected to be refined and improved. Other political, economic and social factors can also lead to further readjustment of the reform measures. This refining and readjustment process may not always have a positive effect on our operations. Our operating results may be adversely affected by changes in China’s economic and social conditions and by changes in policies of the PRC government such as changes in laws and regulations (or the interpretation thereof), imposition of additional restrictions on currency conversion and reduction in tariff protection and other import restrictions. · Since 1994, the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies, including Hong Kong and U.S. dollars, has been based on rates set by the People’s Bank of China, or PBOC, which are set daily based on the previous day’s PRC interbank foreign exchange market rate and current exchange rates on the world financial markets. Since 1994, the official exchange rate for the conversion of RMB to U.S. dollars has generally been stable. On July 21, 2005, however, PBOC announced a reform of its exchange rate system. Under the reform, RMB is no longer effectively linked to US dollars but instead is allowed to trade in a tight 0.3% band against a basket of foreign currencies. Any devaluation of the RMB may adversely affect the value of, and dividends payable on our shares as we receive our revenues and denominate our profits in RMB. Our financial condition and operating performance may also be affected by changes in the value of certain currencies other than RMB in which our earnings and obligations are denominated. In particular, a devaluation of the RMB is likely to increase the portion of our cash flow required to satisfy our foreign currency-denominated obligations. · Since 1997, many new laws and regulations covering general economic matters have been promulgated in the PRC. Despite this activity to develop the legal system, PRC’s system of laws is not yet complete. Even where adequate law exists, enforcement of existing laws or contracts based on existing law may be uncertain and sporadic, and it may be difficult to obtain swift and equitable enforcement or to obtain enforcement of a judgment by a court of another jurisdiction. The relative inexperience of PRC’s judiciary in many cases creates additional uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. In addition, interpretation of statutes and regulations may be subject to government policies reflecting domestic political changes. Competitors may develop and market products that are less expensive, more effective or safer, making CWM obsolete or uncompetitive. Some of our competitors and potential competitors may have greater product development capabilities and financial, scientific, marketing and human resources than we do. Technological competition from other alternative energy companies is intense and is expected to increase. Other companies have developed technologies that could be the basis for competitive products. Some of these products may be more effective and are less costly than CWM. Over time, CWM may become obsolete or uncompetitive. CWM may not gain wide market acceptance. Despite the central government’s push for clean-coal technology and the support for CWM amongst a number of municipal governments, CWM may ultimately not gain wide market acceptance in the PRC. The degree of market acceptance of any product depends on a number of factors, including establishment and demonstration of its efficacy and safety, cost-effectiveness, advantages over alternative products, and marketing and distribution support for the product. Limited information regarding these factors is available in connection with CWM or competitive products. To establish wide market acceptance of CWM, we will require a marketing and sales force with appropriate technical expertise and supporting distribution capabilities, as well as continuing governmental support for the use of CWM. We may not be able to establish sales, marketing and distribution capabilities or enter into arrangements with third parties on acceptable terms, and our ability to influence governmental support is limited. If CWM does not gain wide market acceptance, our ability to continue to generate or increase revenue may be limited. If we were successfully sued for product liability, we could face substantial liabilities that may exceed our resources. We may be held liable if our product causes injury or is found unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or use. We currently do not have product liability insurance. We are not insured with respect to this liability. If we choose to obtain product liability insurance but cannot obtain sufficient insurance coverage at an acceptable cost or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, the commercialization of our product may be prevented or inhibited. If we are sued for any injury caused by our product, our liability could exceed our total assets. 10 We have no business insurance coverage. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited business insurance products. We do not have any business liability or disruption insurance coverage for our operations in China. Any business disruption, litigation or natural disaster may result in our incurring substantial costs and the diversion of our resources. Our success depends on attracting and retaining qualified personnel. We depend on a core team of management and operational personnel. The loss of any of these individuals could prevent us from achieving our business objectives. Our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain other highly qualified management and operational personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in our field and industry. We face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. If our recruitment and retention efforts are unsuccessful, our business operations could suffer. Downturn in the global economy may slow domestic growth in China, which, in turn, may effect our business. Due to the global downturn in the financial markets, China may not be able to maintain its recent growth rates mainly due to the decreased demand for China’s exported good in countries that are in recessions. Although we do not presently export any of our products, our earnings may become unstable if China’s domestic growth slows significantly and the domestic demand for energy declines. Risk Related to the Alternative Energy Industry A drop in the retail price of conventional energy or other alternative energy may have a negative effect on our business. A customer's decision to purchase CWM will be primarily driven by the return on investment resulting from the energy savings from CWM. Any fluctuations in economic and market conditions that impact the viability of conventional and other alternative energy sources, such as decreases in the prices of oil and other fossil fuels could cause the demand for CWM to decline. Although we believe that current levels of retail energy prices support a reasonable return on investment for CWM, there can be no assurance that future retail pricing of conventional energy and other alternative energy will remain at such levels. Existing regulations and changes to such regulations may present technical, regulatory and economic barriers to the purchase and use of CWM, which may significantly affect the demand for our products. CWM is subject to oversight and regulations in accordance with national and local ordinances and regulations relating to safety, environmental protection, and related matters. We are responsible for knowing such ordinances and regulations, and must comply with these varying standards. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our product may result in significant additional expenses to us and our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our product. The market for CWM is emerging and rapidly evolving, and its future success remains uncertain. If CWM is not suitable for widespread adoption or sufficient demand for CWM does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our sales would not significantly increase and we would be unable to achieve or sustain profitability. In addition, demand for CWM in the markets and geographic regions where we operate may not develop or may develop more slowly than we anticipate. Many factors will influence the widespread adoption of CWM and demand for our products, including: · cost-effectiveness of CWM as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; · performance and reliability of CWM as compared with conventional and other alternative energy products and technologies; · capital expenditures by customers that tend to decrease if the PRC or global economy slows down; and · availability of government subsidies and incentives. 11 Risks Related to Our Corporate Structure PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our affiliated Chinese entity, Suo’ang BST, and its stockholders. We are considered a foreign person under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of certain Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of our business and industry, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The PRC government regulates the energy industries including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in these industries. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of our industry include the following: · We only have contractual control over Suo’ang BST. Neither we nor our subsidiary own any equity interests in Suo’ang BST due to restriction of foreign investment in certain Chinese businesses; and · Uncertainties relating to the regulations of our industry in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, alternative energy businesses in China, including our business. In order to comply with PRC laws limiting foreign ownership of certain Chinese companies, we conduct our business through Suo’ang BST by means of contractual arrangements. If the PRC government determines that these contractual arrangements do not comply with applicable regulations, our business could be adversely affected. The PRC government restricts foreign investment in certain industries in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through contractual arrangements with Suo’ang BST. Suo’ang BST holds the licenses and approvals necessary to operate the CWM business in China. We have contractual arrangements with Suo’ang BST and its stockholders through our wholly owned subsidiary, Hangson, that allow us to substantially control Suo’ang BST. We cannot assure you, however, that we will be able to enforce these contracts. Although we believe we comply with current Chinese regulations, and have been advised by our PRC counsel that, in their opinion, the structure for operating our business in China (including our corporate structure and contractual arrangements with Suo’ang BST) complies with all applicable PRC laws, rules and regulations, and does not violate, breach, contravene or otherwise conflict with any applicable PRC laws, rules or regulations, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government would agree that these operating arrangements comply with Chinese licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements, with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the Chinese government determines that we do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. 12 Our contractual arrangements with Suo’ang BST may not be as effective in providing control over it as direct ownership. Since PRC law limits foreign equity ownership in certain industries in China, we operate our business through contractual arrangements with Suo’ang BST. Neither we nor our wholly owned subsidiary, Hangson, have equity ownership interest in Suo’ang BST, and we rely on contractual arrangements to control and operate its business. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over Suo’ang BST as direct ownership. For example, Suo’ang BST could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If Suo’ang BST fails to perform under the contractual arrangements, we may have to rely on legal remedies under PRC law, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that Suo’ang BST’s stockholders will always act in our best interests. Because we rely on the consulting services agreement with Suo’ang BST for our revenue, the termination of this agreement will severely and detrimentally affect our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure. We are a holding company and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than the contractual arrangements between Hangson and Suo’ang BST and the minority interest in Suo’ang New Energy through Hangson. As a result, we currently rely entirely for our revenues on dividends payments from Hangson after it receives payments from Suo’ang BST pursuant to the consulting services agreement which forms a part of the contractual arrangements between Hangson and Suo’ang BST. The consulting services agreement may be terminated by written notice of Hangson or Suo’ang BST in the event that: (a) one party causes a material breach of the agreement, provided that if the breach does not relate to a financial obligation of the breaching party, that party may attempt to remedy the breach within 14 days following the receipt of the written notice; (b) one party becomes bankrupt, insolvent, is the subject of proceedings or arrangements for liquidation or dissolution, ceases to carry on business, or becomes unable to pay its debts as they become due; (c) Hangson terminates its operations; (d) Suo’ang BST’s business license or any other license or approval for its business operations is terminated, cancelled or revoked; or (e) circumstances arise which would materially and adversely affect the performance or the objectives of the agreement. Additionally, Hangson may terminate the consulting services agreement without cause. Because neither we nor Hangson own equity interests of Suo’ang BST, the termination of the consulting services agreement would sever our ability to continue receiving payments from Suo’ang BST under our current holding company structure. While we are currently not aware of any event or reason that may cause the consulting services agreement to terminate, we cannot assure you that such an event or reason will not occur in the future. In the event that the consulting services agreement is terminated, this may have a severe and detrimental effect on our continuing business viability under our current corporate structure, which, in turn, may affect the value of your investment. Members of Suo’ang BST’s management have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may adversely affect our business and your ability for recourse. Mr. Baowen Ren, our Chief Executive Officer, is also the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Suo’ang BST and Suo’ang New Energy. Mr. Peng Zhou, who is Suo’ang New Energy’s director, is a member of our board of directors. Conflicts of interests between their respective duties to our Company and Suo’ang BST may arise. As our directors and executive officer (in the case of Mr. Ren), they have a duty of loyalty and care to us under U.S. and British Virgin Islands laws when there are any potential conflicts of interests between our company and Suo’ang BST. We cannot assure you, however, that when conflicts of interest arise, each of them will act completely in our interests or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. For example, they may determine that it is in Suo’ang BST’s interests to sever the contractual arrangements with Hangson, irrespective of the effect such action may have on us. In addition, any one of them could violate his legal duties by diverting business opportunities from us to others, thereby affecting the amount of payment Suo’ang BST is obligated to remit to us under the consulting services agreement. Our board of directors is comprised of a majority of independent directors (including one based in the United States). These independent directors may be in a position to deter and counteract the actions of our officers or non-independent directors that are against our interests, as the independent directors do not have any position with, or interests in, our affiliate entities, and should therefore not have any conflicts of interests such as those potential conflicts of interest of our officers and directors who are also management members of our affiliated companies in the PRC. Additionally, the independent directors have fiduciary duties to act in our best interests, and failure on their part to do so may subject them to personal liabilities for breach of such duties. We cannot, however, give any assurance as to how the independent directors will act. Further, if we or the independent directors cannot resolve any conflicts of interest between us and those of our officers and directors who are management members of our affiliated companies in the PRC, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in the disruption of our business. In the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under the securities laws or otherwise as a result of any one of the circumstances described above, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against Suo’ang BST or our officers or directors who are members of its management, all of whom reside within China. Even if you are successful in bringing an action, the laws of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against the assets of Suo’ang BST and its management, all of which are located in China. 13 Risks Related to Doing Business in China Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the PRC government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our business operations are conducted in China. Accordingly, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects are subject to a significant degree to economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including with respect to the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the PRC economy has experienced significant growth in the past 20 years, growth has been uneven across different regions and among various economic sectors of China. The PRC government has implemented various measures to encourage economic development and guide the allocation of resources. Some of these measures benefit the overall PRC economy, but may also have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by government control over capital investments or changes in tax regulations that are applicable to us. Since early 2004, the PRC government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which, in turn, could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If Suo’ang New Energy loses its existing preferential tax benefits, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under PRC laws and regulations, an enterprise may enjoy preferential tax benefits if it is registered in a high-tech zone and also qualifies as “new or high-technology enterprise”. As a certified “new or high-technology enterprise” located in a high-technology zone in X’ian, Suo’ang New Energy enjoyed a two-year exemption from enterprise income tax that ended in 2008, and will continue to enjoy a 50% reduction of its enterprise income tax for the next three years. If Suo’ang New Energy is unable to qualify for additional preferential tax treatments at the end of such period, we would have to pay more taxes, which could have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Suo’ang BST is subject to restrictions on making payments to us. We are a holding company incorporated in Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than the contractual arrangements between Hangson and Suo’ang BST and the minority interest in Suo’ang New Energy through Hangson. As a result of our holding company structure, we rely entirely on payments from Suo’ang BST under our contractual arrangements. The Chinese government also imposes controls on the conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and the remittance of currencies out of China. We may experience difficulties in completing the administrative procedures necessary to obtain and remit foreign currency. See “Government control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment.” Furthermore, if our affiliated entity in China incurs debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict their ability to make payments. If we are unable to receive all of the revenues from Suo’ang BST’s operations through the contractual arrangements between Hangson and Suo’ang BST, we may be unable to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. Uncertainties with respect to the PRC legal system could adversely affect us. We conduct our business primarily through Hangson and Suo’ang BST. Our operations in China are governed by PRC laws and regulations. We are generally subject to laws and regulations in China. The PRC legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but have limited precedential value. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited volume of published decisions and their nonbinding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. In addition, the PRC legal system is based in part on government policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until some time after the violation. In addition, any litigation in China may be protracted and result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. You may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process, enforcing foreign judgments or bringing original actions in China based on United States or other foreign laws against us and our management. We are a holding company incorporated in Nevada and do not have any assets or conduct any business operations other than the contractual arrangements between Hangson and Suo’ang BST and the minority interest in Suo’ang New Energy through Hangson. In addition, all of Suo’ang BST’s assets are located in, and all of our other senior executive officers reside within, China. As a result, it may not be possible to effect service of process within the United States or elsewhere outside China upon our senior executive officers and directors not residing in the United States, including with respect to matters arising under U.S. federal securities laws or applicable state securities laws. Moreover, our Chinese counsel has advised us that China does not have treaties with the United States or many other countries providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgment of courts. As a result, our public shareholders may have substantial difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation with assets and management members located in the United States. 14 Governmental control of currency conversion may affect the value of your investment. The PRC government imposes controls on the convertibility of RMB into foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currency out of China. We receive substantially all of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, our income is primarily derived from payments from Suo’ang BST. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our PRC subsidiaries and our affiliated entity to remit sufficient foreign currency to pay dividends or other payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing PRC foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required where RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The PRC government may also, at its discretion, restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. If the foreign exchange control system prevents us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our currency demands, we may not be able to pay dividends in foreign currencies to our shareholders. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on your investment. The value of RMB against the U.S. dollar and other currencies may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions. Our revenues and costs are mostly denominated in RMB, while a significant portion of our financial assets are denominated in U.S. dollars. We rely entirely on fees paid to us by Suo’ang BST. Any significant fluctuation in value of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of, and any dividends payable on, our stock in U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. We face risks related to health epidemics and other outbreaks. Our business could be adversely affected by the effects of SARS or another epidemic or outbreak. China reported a number of cases of SARS in April 2004. Any prolonged recurrence of SARS or other adverse public health developments in China may have a material adverse effect on our business operations. For instance, health or other government regulations adopted in response may require temporary closure of our production facilities or of our offices. Such closures would severely disrupt our business operations and adversely affect our results of operations. We have not adopted any written preventive measures or contingency plans to combat any future outbreak of SARS or any other epidemic. Risks Related to an Investment in Our Securities To date, we have not paid any cash dividends and no cash dividends are expected to be paid in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate paying cash dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future and we may not have sufficient funds legally available to pay dividends. Even if the funds are legally available for distribution, we may nevertheless decide not to pay any dividends. We intend to retain all earnings for our operations. The application of the “penny stock” rules could adversely affect the market price of our common stock and increase your transaction costs to sell those shares. As long as the trading price of our common shares is below $5 per share, the open-market trading of our common shares will be subject to the “penny stock” rules. The “penny stock” rules impose additional sales practice requirements on broker-dealers who sell securities to persons other than established customers and accredited investors (generally those with assets in excess of $1,000,000 or annual income exceeding $200,000 or $300,000 together with their spouse). For transactions covered by these rules, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination for the purchase of securities and have received the purchaser’s written consent to the transaction before the purchase. Additionally, for any transaction involving a penny stock, unless exempt, the broker-dealer must deliver, before the transaction, a disclosure schedule prescribed by the Securities and Exchange Commission relating to the penny stock market. The broker-dealer also must disclose the commissions payable to both the broker-dealer and the registered representative and current quotations for the securities. Finally, monthly statements must be sent disclosing recent price information on the limited market in penny stocks. These additional burdens imposed on broker-dealers may restrict the ability or decrease the willingness of broker-dealers to sell our common shares, and may result in decreased liquidity for our common shares and increased transaction costs for sales and purchases of our common shares as compared to other securities. 15 Our common shares are thinly traded and, you may be unable to sell at or near ask prices or at all if you need to sell your shares to raise money or otherwise desire to liquidate your shares. The Company cannot predict the extent to which an active public market for its common stock will develop or be sustained. However, the Company does not rule out the possibility of applying for listing on the Nasdaq National Market or other exchanges. Our common shares have historically been sporadically or "thinly-traded" on the “Over-the-Counter Bulletin Board”, meaning that the number of persons interested in purchasing our common shares at or near bid prices at any given time may be relatively small or non-existent. This situation is attributable to a number of factors, including the fact that we are a small company which is relatively unknown to stock analysts, stock brokers, institutional investors and others in the investment community that generate or influence sales volume, and that even if we came to the attention of such persons, they tend to be risk-averse and would be reluctant to follow an unproven company such as ours or purchase or recommend the purchase of our shares until such time as we became more seasoned and viable. As a consequence, there may be periods of several days or more when trading activity in our shares is minimal or non-existent, as compared to a seasoned issuer which has a large and steady volume of trading activity that will generally support continuous sales without an adverse effect on share price. We cannot give you any assurance that a broader or more active public trading market for our common stock will develop or be sustained, or that current trading levels will be sustained. The market price for our common stock is particularly volatile given our status as a relatively small company with a small and thinly traded “float” and lack of current revenues that could lead to wide fluctuations in our share price. The price at which you purchase our common stock may not be indicative of the price that will prevail in the trading market. You may be unable to sell your common stock at or above your purchase price if at all, which may result in substantial losses to you. The market for our common shares is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. The volatility in our share price is attributable to a number of factors. First, as noted above, our common shares are sporadically and/or thinly traded. As a consequence of this lack of liquidity, the trading of relatively small quantities of shares by our shareholders may disproportionately influence the price of those shares in either direction. The price for our shares could, for example, decline precipitously in the event that a large number of our common shares are sold on the market without commensurate demand, as compared to a seasoned issuer which could better absorb those sales without adverse impact on its share price. Secondly, we are a speculative or "risky" investment due to our lack of revenues or profits to date and uncertainty of future market acceptance for our current and potential products. As a consequence of this enhanced risk, more risk-adverse investors may, under the fear of losing all or most of their investment in the event of negative news or lack of progress, be more inclined to sell their shares on the market more quickly and at greater discounts than would be the case with the stock of a seasoned issuer. The following factors may add to the volatility in the price of our common shares: actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly or annual operating results; adverse outcomes; the termination of our contractual agreements with Suo’ang BST; and additions or departures of our key personnel, as well as other items discussed under this "Risk Factors" section, as well as elsewhere in this annual report. Many of these factors are beyond our control and may decrease the market price of our common shares, regardless of our operating performance. We cannot make any predictions or projections as to what the prevailing market price for our common shares will be at any time, including as to whether our common shares will sustain their current market prices, or as to what effect that the sale of shares or the availability of common shares for sale at any time will have on the prevailing market price. However, the Company does not rule out the possibility of applying for listing on the Nasdaq National Market or other exchanges. Shareholders should be aware that, according to SEC Release No. 34-29093, the market for penny stocks has suffered in recent years from patterns of fraud and abuse. Such patterns include (1) control of the market for the security by one or a few broker-dealers that are often related to the promoter or issuer; (2) manipulation of prices through prearranged matching of purchases and sales and false and misleading press releases; (3) boiler room practices involving high-pressure sales tactics and unrealistic price projections by inexperienced sales persons; (4) excessive and undisclosed bid-ask differential and markups by selling broker-dealers; and (5) the wholesale dumping of the same securities by promoters and broker-dealers after prices have been manipulated to a desired level, along with the resulting inevitable collapse of those prices and with consequent investor losses. Our management is aware of the abuses that have occurred historically in the penny stock market. Although we do not expect to be in a position to dictate the behavior of the market or of broker-dealers who participate in the market, management will strive within the confines of practical limitations to prevent the described patterns from being established with respect to our securities. The occurrence of these patterns or practices could increase the volatility of our share price. 16 Volatility in our common share price may subject us to securities litigation. The market for our common stock is characterized by significant price volatility when compared to seasoned issuers, and we expect that our share price will continue to be more volatile than a seasoned issuer for the indefinite future. In the past, plaintiffs have often initiated securities class action litigation against a company following periods of volatility in the market price of its securities. We may, in the future, be the target of similar litigation. Securities litigation could result in substantial costs and liabilities and could divert management's attention and resources. Our corporate actions are substantially controlled by our principal shareholders and affiliated entities. As of March 27, 2009, our principal stockholders and their affiliated entities own approximately 39% of our outstanding common shares, representing approximately 39% of our voting power. These stockholders, acting individually or as a group, could exert substantial influence over matters such as electing directors and approving mergers or other business combination transactions. In addition, because of the percentage of ownership and voting concentration in these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities, elections of our board of directors will generally be within the control of these stockholders and their affiliated entities. While all of our stockholders are entitled to vote on matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, the concentration of shares and voting control presently lies with these principal stockholders and their affiliated entities. As such, it would be difficult for stockholders to propose and have approved proposals not supported by management. There can be no assurances that matters voted upon by our officers and directors in their capacity as stockholders will be viewed favorably by all stockholders of the company. The elimination of monetary liability against our directors, officers and employees under Nevada law and the existence of indemnification rights to our directors, officers and employees may result in substantial expenditures by our company and may discourage lawsuits against our directors, officers and employees. Our articles of incorporation contains a provision that eliminates the liability of our directors for monetary damages to our company and shareholders to the extent allowed under Nevada law and we are prepared to give such indemnification to our directors and officers to the extent provided by Nevada law. We also have contractual indemnification obligations under our agreements with some of our directors. The foregoing indemnification obligations could result in our company incurring substantial expenditures to cover the cost of settlement or damage awards against directors and officers, which we may be unable to recoup. These provisions and resultant costs may also discourage our company from bringing a lawsuit against directors and officers for breaches of their fiduciary duties, and may similarly discourage the filing of derivative litigation by our shareholders against our directors and officers even though such actions, if successful, might otherwise benefit our company and shareholders. Legislative actions, higher insurance costs and potential new accounting pronouncements may impact our future financial position and results of operations. There have been regulatory changes, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and there may potentially be new accounting pronouncements or additional regulatory rulings that will have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and other similar rule changes are likely to increase general and administrative costs and expenses. Additionally, while we currently do not maintain any insurance policies, we are contractually obligated to obtain coverage for directors’ and officers insurance. When we do so, we expect that premiums for such insurance policies may be considerable in light of the high claims rates in recent years. Additionally, there could be changes in certain accounting rules. These and other potential changes could materially increase the expenses we report under generally accepted accounting principles, and adversely affect our operating results. Past company activities prior to the reverse merger may lead to future liability for the Company. Prior to the closing of the Exchange Agreement with Hangson on October 20, 2006, we were engaged in businesses unrelated to our current operations. Although certain prior Company shareholders have provided certain indemnifications against any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense arising out of or based on any breach of or inaccuracy in any of their representations and warranties made in connection with the Exchange Agreement, any liabilities relating to such prior business against which we are not completely indemnified may have a material adverse effect on the Company. 17 The market price for our stock may be volatile. The market price for our stock may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors including the following: · actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; · changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts; · conditions in alternative energy and coal-based product markets; · changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other alternative energy and coal-based products companies; · announcements by us or our competitors of new products, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; · addition or departure of key personnel; · intellectual property litigation; and · general economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the securities market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our stock. We may need additional capital, and the sale of additional shares or other equity securities could result in additional dilution to our shareholders. We believe that our current cash and cash equivalents, anticipated cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for the near future. We may, however, require additional cash resources due to changed business conditions or other future developments, including any investments or acquisitions we may decide to pursue. If our resources are insufficient to satisfy our cash requirements, we may seek to sell equity or debt securities or obtain a credit facility. The sale of equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. We cannot assure you that financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to us, if at all. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act, subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to amended Rule 144, non-affiliate stockholders may sell freely after six months subject only to the current public information requirement (which disappears after one year). Affiliates may sell after six months subject to the Rule 144 volume, manner of sale (for equity securities), current public information and notice requirements. Of the approximately 92 million shares of our common stock outstanding as of March 27, 2009, approximately 14 million shares were freely tradable without restriction, as of March 27, 2009. Any substantial sale of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. We are subject to reporting obligations under the U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, adopted rules requiring every public company to include a management report on such company’s internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report, which contains management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In addition, beginning with our annual report for fiscal 2009, an independent registered public accounting firm must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting. In our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, we reported certain material weaknesses involving control activities, specifically (1) accounting and finance personnel weaknesses in that the current staff in the accounting department is relatively inexperienced and requires substantial training; (2) lack of internal audit function in that we lack qualified resources to perform the internal audit functions properly, and the scope and effectiveness of internal audit function are yet been fully developed; and (3) lack of internal audit system in that we do not have an internal audit department to prevent and detect control lapses and errors in the accounting of certain key areas in accordance with the appropriate costing method used by us. 18 In light of the foregoing, our management began undertaking steps to address these issues, including the engagement of a chief financial officer whom management believes has the requisite financial reporting experience, skills and knowledge to complement our existing personnel. Additionally, four independent directors now sit on our board of directors, including a member who is appropriately credentialed as a financial expert. The independent directors have been tasked to establish certain internal audit functions within our company, and we have also established audit and compensation committees comprising entirely of independent directors. We have also hired additional accounting and operational personnel. However, there is no assurance that additional remedial measures will not be necessary, or that after the remediation our management will be able to conclude that our internal controls over our financial reporting are effective. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal controls over financial reporting are effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may still decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue a report that is qualified if it is not satisfied with our controls or the level at which our controls are documented, designed, operated or reviewed, or if it interprets the relevant requirements differently from us. Our reporting obligations as a public company will place a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources and systems for the foreseeable future. Effective internal controls, particularly those related to revenue recognition, are necessary for us to produce reliable financial reports and are important to help prevent fraud. As a result, our failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting could result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which in turn could harm our business and negatively impact the trading price of our stock. Furthermore, we anticipate that we will incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. We will incur increased costs as a result of being a public company. As a public company, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. In addition, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as well as new rules subsequently implemented by SEC, has required changes in corporate governance practices of public companies. We expect these new rules and regulations to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs and to make certain corporate activities more time-consuming and costly. In addition, we will incur additional costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these new rules, and we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. ITEM 