Item 1A. Risk Factors The statements that are not historical facts contained in this Form 10-K are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements reflect the current belief, expectations or intent of our management and are subject to and involve certain risks and uncertainties. Many of these risks and uncertainties are outside of our control and are difficult for us to forecast or mitigate. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in certain of our other SEC filings, the following important factors, among others, could cause our actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by us in any forward-looking statements contained herein or made elsewhere by or on behalf of us. Our business may be adversely affected by unfavorable general economic and market conditions Our business is subject to the effects of general economic conditions in the United States and globally and, in particular, market conditions in the communications and networking industries. In the past, our operating results have been adversely affected as a result of unfavorable economic conditions and reduced or deferred capital spending in the United States, Europe, Asia and other parts of the world. The global financial crisis began in 2008 and the subsequent recovery from the downturn has been challenging and inconsistent. Instability in the global credit markets, the impact of uncertainty regarding the U.S. federal budget including the effect of the recent sequestration, tapering of bond purchases by the U.S. Federal Reserve, the instability in the geopolitical environment in many parts of the world and other disruptions may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in key markets, remain uncertain or deteriorate further, we may experience material impacts on our business. Unfavorable and/or uncertain economic and market conditions such as these may result in lower capital spending by our customers on network test and monitoring solutions, and therefore demand for our products could decline, adversely impacting our revenue and our ability to accurately forecast the future demand and revenue trends for our products and services. Challenging economic and market conditions may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for the products and services they have purchased. In addition, prolonged unfavorable economic conditions and market turbulence may also negatively impact our contract manufacturers’ and suppliers’ capability to timely supply and manufacture our products, thereby impairing our ability to meet our contractual obligations to our customers. These effects, as well as any other currently unforeseeable effects, are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a result, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and stock price. Acquisitions undertaken and any that we may undertake could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute shareholder value and significantly harm our operating results Acquisitions are inherently risky and no assurance can be given that our previous acquisitions, including our 2013 acquisition of Net Optics, our 2012 acquisitions of Anue and BreakingPoint, or our future acquisitions will be successful or will not materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. We expect to continue to review opportunities to acquire other businesses or technologies that would add to our existing product line, complement and enhance our current products, expand the breadth of our markets, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. While we are not currently a party to any pending acquisition agreements, we may acquire additional businesses, products or technologies in the future. If we make any further acquisitions, we could issue stock that would dilute existing shareholders’ percentage ownership, and we could incur substantial debt or assume liabilities. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the following: ● problems or delays in assimilating or transitioning to Ixia the acquired operations, systems, processes, controls, technologies, products or personnel; ● loss of acquired customer accounts; ● unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; 20 ● our failure to identify in the due diligence process significant issues with product quality or development and liabilities related to operational issues, intellectual property infringement or tax or other regulatory matters; ● multiple and overlapping product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; ● higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; ● diversion of management’s attention from our core business and the challenges of managing larger and more widespread operations resulting from acquisitions; ● adverse effects on existing business relationships of Ixia or the acquired business with its suppliers, licensors, contract manufacturers, customers, resellers and industry experts; ● significant impairment, exit and/or restructuring charges if the products or technologies acquired in an acquisition do not meet our sales expectations or are unsuccessful; ● insufficient revenues to offset increased expenses associated with acquisitions; ● risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and ● potential loss of the acquired organization’s or our own key employees. Mergers and acquisitions are inherently risky and subject to many factors outside of our control, and we cannot be certain that we would be successful in overcoming problems in connection with our past or future acquisitions. Our inability to do so could significantly harm our business, revenues and results of operations. See Note 2 in the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. Competition in our market could significantly harm our results of operations The market for our products is highly competitive. We currently compete with network test and monitoring solution vendors such as Spirent Communications, Gigamon, Danaher, Aeroflex, JDS Uniphase, and NetScout. We also compete either directly or indirectly with large Ethernet switch vendors and network management, analysis, compliance and test tool vendors that offer point solutions that address a subset of the issues that we solve. Additionally, some of our significant customers have developed, or may develop, in-house products for their own use or for sale to others. For example, Cisco Systems, our largest customer, has used internally developed test products for a number of years. Although Cisco Systems has in the past accounted for a significant portion of our revenues, we cannot be certain that it will continue to do so. As we broaden our product offerings, we may move into new markets and face additional competition. Moreover, our competitors may have more experience operating in these new markets and be better established with the customers in these new markets. Some of our competitors and potential competitors have greater brand name recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, sales and distribution capabilities than we do. Moreover, our competitors may consolidate with each other, or with other companies, giving them even greater capabilities with which to compete against us. Increased competition in the network test and monitoring markets could result in increased pressure on us to reduce prices and could result in a reduction in our revenues and/or a decrease in our profit margins, each of which could significantly harm our results of operations. In addition, increased competition could prevent us from increasing our market share, or cause us to lose our existing market share, either of which would harm our revenues and profitability. 21 We cannot predict whether our current or future competitors will develop or market technologies and products that offer higher performance or more features, or that are more cost-effective than our current or future products. To remain competitive, we must continue to develop cost-effective products and product enhancements which offer higher performance and more functionality. Our failure to do so will harm our revenues and results of operations. If we are unable to successfully develop or introduce new products to keep pace with the rapid technological changes that characterize our market, our results of operations will be significantly harmed The market for our products is characterized by: ● rapid technological change such as the recent advancements of IP-based networks and wireless technologies (e.g., LTE); ● frequent new product introductions such as higher speed and more complex routers; ● evolving industry standards; ● changing customer needs such as the increase in advanced IP services agreed to between service providers and their customers; ● short product life cycles as a result of rapid changes in our customers’ products; and ● new paradigms like Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (SDN). Our performance will depend on our successful development and introductions and on market acceptance, of new and enhanced products that address new technologies and changes in customer requirements. If we experience any delay in the development or introduction of new products or enhancements to our existing products, our operating results may suffer. For instance, undetected software or hardware errors, which frequently occur when new products are first introduced, could result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products and the loss of credibility with our customers. In addition, if we are not able to develop, or license, or acquire from third parties, the underlying core technologies necessary to create new products and enhancements, our existing products are likely to become technologically obsolete over time and our operating results will suffer. If the rate of development of new technologies and transmission protocols by our customers is delayed, the growth of the market for our products and therefore our sales and operating results may be harmed. Our ability to successfully introduce new products in a timely fashion will depend on multiple factors, including our ability to: ● anticipate technological changes and industry trends; ● properly identify customer needs; ● innovate and develop and license or acquire new technologies and applications; ● hire and retain necessary technical personnel; ● successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; ● timely obtain key components for the manufacture of new products; 22 ● manufacture and deliver our products in sufficient volumes and on time; ● price our products competitively; ● provide high quality, timely technical support; and ● differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technology and market trends. We cannot be certain that we will be able to identify, develop, manufacture, market or support new or enhanced products successfully, if at all, or on a timely or cost-effective basis. Further, we cannot be certain that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to technological changes, emerging industry standards or product announcements by our competitors. If we fail to respond to technological change and the needs of our markets, we will lose revenues and our competitive position will suffer. We depend on sales of a narrow range of products and, if customers do not purchase our products, our revenues and results of operations would be significantly harmed Our business and products are concentrated in the markets for systems that analyze and measure the performance of wired and wireless IP-based networks and for systems that provide network visibility into physical and virtual networks and optimize monitoring tool performance. These markets continue to evolve, and there is uncertainty regarding the size and scope of these markets. Our performance will depend on increased sales of our existing systems and the successful development, introduction and market acceptance of new and enhanced products. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in increasing these sales or in developing and introducing new products. Our failure to do so would significantly harm our revenues and results of operations. Because we depend on a limited number of customers for a majority of our revenues, any cancellation, reduction or delay in purchases by one or more of these customers could significantly harm our revenues and results of operations Historically, a small number of customers has accounted for a significant portion of our total revenues. Sales to our top five customers accounted for 30% to 40% of total revenues for each of the three years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. Additionally, sales to our two largest customers, Cisco Systems and AT&T, accounted for 24.9% of our total revenues in 2013, 20.9% of our total revenues in 2012 and 17.8% of our total revenues in 2011. We expect that some customer concentration will continue for the foreseeable future and that our operating results will continue to depend to a significant extent upon revenues from a small number of customers. Our dependence on large orders from a limited number of customers makes our relationships with these customers critical to the success of our business. We cannot be certain that we will be able to retain our largest customers, that we will be able to increase our sales to our other existing customers or that we will be able to attract additional customers. From time to time, we have experienced delays and reductions in orders from some of our major customers. In addition, our customers have sought price reductions or other concessions from us and will likely continue to do so. We typically do not have long-term or volume purchase contracts with our customers, and our customers can stop purchasing our products at any time without penalty and are free to purchase products from our competitors. The loss of one or more of our largest customers, any reduction or delay in sales to one of these customers, our inability to successfully develop and maintain relationships with existing and new large customers, or requirements that we make price reductions or other concessions could significantly harm our revenues and results of operations. Our large customers have substantial negotiating leverage, which may require that we agree to terms and conditions that may have an adverse effect on our business Large network equipment manufacturers and service providers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may require us to develop additional features, reduce our prices or grant other concessions. As we seek to sell more products to these large customers, we may be required to agree to such terms and conditions. These terms may affect the amounts and timing of revenue recognition and our profit margins, which may adversely affect our profitability and financial condition in the affected periods. 23 If we do not diversify our customer base, we may not be able to grow our business or increase our profitability To date, the majority of our total revenues have been generated from sales to network equipment manufacturers. Our growth depends, in part, on our ability to diversify our customer base by increasing sales to service provider, enterprise, and government customers. To effectively compete for the business of these customers, we must develop new products and enhancements to existing products and expand our direct and indirect sales, marketing and customer service capabilities, which will result in increases in operating costs. If we cannot offset these increases in costs with an increase in our revenues, our operating results may be adversely affected. Some of our existing and potential competitors have existing relationships with many service providers, enterprise, and government customers. We cannot be certain that we will be successful in increasing our sales presence in these customer markets. Any failure by us to diversify our customer base and to increase sales in these markets would adversely affect our growth. We have not been in compliance with the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and Nasdaq’s requirements for continued listing and, as a result, our common stock may be delisted and suspended from trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market We have been delinquent in the filing of our periodic financial reports with the SEC and, as a result, we are not in compliance with the Nasdaq rule that requires the timely filing of our periodic financial reports with the SEC. On May 2, 2014, Nasdaq notified us that due to our delay in filing with the SEC our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2013 and this Form 10-K, our common stock would be delisted unless we timely requested a hearing before a Nasdaq Listings Qualification Panel (a “Hearings Panel”). We timely requested such a hearing, which was held on June 12, 2014. At the hearing, we presented a plan to regain compliance with the rule and requested an extension of time for the filing of our delayed reports, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014 (the “2014 Form 10-Q”). On May 15, 2014, Nasdaq also advised us that the delayed filing of the 2014 Form 10-Q serves as an additional basis for Nasdaq’s delisting determination. After filing this Form 10-K with the SEC, we will continue to be delinquent in our filings with the SEC due to our delay in filing the 2014 Form 10-Q. There can be no assurance that the Hearings Panel will grant us additional time to regain compliance with the listing rule or that, if granted such an extension, we will be successful in regaining compliance with the listing rule during the extension period. If our common stock is delisted, there can no assurance whether or when it would again be listed for trading on Nasdaq or any other exchange. If our common stock is delisted, the market price of our shares will likely decline and become more volatile, and our shareholders may find that their ability to trade in our stock will be adversely affected. A delisting from Nasdaq may also have other negative implications, including the potential loss of confidence by customers and employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, fewer business development opportunities and a requirement, under the Indenture, that we offer to repurchase the Notes. The restatement of certain of our prior period consolidated financial statements reflected in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 (the “2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K”) (the “2012 Restatement”) and the restatements of the first and second quarterly periods of 2013 reflected in the applicable amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A (the “2013 Restatement”) may affect shareholder confidence, may consume a significant amount of our time and resources and may have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price As discussed in our previously filed 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K and in our amended Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q/A for the first and second quarterly periods of 2013, we restated certain prior period consolidated financial statements to correct errors in the timing of when revenue was recognized, and to reflect the income tax effects of such revenue errors. We cannot be certain that the measures we have taken since we completed the restatements will ensure that restatements will not occur in the future. The restatements may affect investor confidence in the accuracy of our financial statements and disclosures, may raise reputational issues for our business and may result in a decline in our share price and related shareholder lawsuits. These risks with respect to the 2013 Restatement may be heightened due to our having restated certain prior period financial statements in our 2012 Restatement. We are currently a party to three shareholder lawsuits relating to the 2012 Restatement. 24 The 2013 Restatement was resource-intensive and involved a significant amount of internal resources, including attention from management, and significant legal and accounting costs. Although we have now completed the 2013 Restatement, we cannot guarantee that we will not receive inquiries from the SEC or Nasdaq regarding our restated financial statements or matters relating thereto. Any future inquiries from the SEC or Nasdaq as a result of the 2013 Restatement of our historical financial statements will, regardless of the outcome, likely consume a significant amount of our internal resources and result in additional legal and accounting costs. Each of these risks described above could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We cannot assure investors that we will be able to fully address the material weaknesses in our internal controls or that remediation efforts will prevent future material weaknesses We have identified control deficiencies in our financial reporting process that constitute material weaknesses, which contributed to the restatement of the condensed consolidated financial statements in our previously filed Forms 10-Q’s for the quarters ended March 31, 2013 and June 30, 2013. We have initiated certain measures, including initiating the implementation of a new revenue recognition system and increasing the number of employees on, and the expertise of, our accounting team, to remediate these weaknesses, and plan to implement additional appropriate measures as part of this effort. There can be no assurance that we will be able to fully remediate our existing material weaknesses or that the implementation of the new revenue recognition system and increasing the number and expertise of our accounting team will remediate or prevent these weaknesses from re-occurring in the future. Further, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer from other material weaknesses in the future. If we fail to remediate these material weaknesses or fail to otherwise maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting in the future, such failure could result in a material misstatement of our annual or quarterly financial statements that would not be prevented or detected on a timely basis and which could cause investors and other users to lose confidence in our financial statements, limit our ability to raise capital and have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Additionally, failure to remediate the material weaknesses or otherwise failing to maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting may also negatively impact our operating results and financial condition, impair our ability to timely file our periodic and other reports with the SEC, subject us to additional litigation and regulatory actions and cause us to incur substantial additional costs in future periods relating to the implementation of remedial measures. Our quarterly and annual operating results have historically fluctuated or may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of new product introductions, changes in judgments or estimates, and/or other factors, which fluctuations could cause our stock price to decline significantly Our quarterly and annual operating results are difficult to predict and have fluctuated and may fluctuate significantly due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Some of the factors that could cause our quarterly and annual operating results to fluctuate include the other risks discussed in this “Risk Factors” section. We may experience a shortfall or delay in generating or recognizing revenues for a number of reasons. Orders on hand at the beginning of a quarter and orders generated in a quarter do not always result in the shipment of products and the recognition of revenues for that quarter. For example, failure to ship products by the end of the quarter in which they are ordered or our inability to recognize revenue for products shipped in a quarter due to nonstandard terms in our sales arrangements may adversely affect our operating results for that quarter. Our agreements with customers typically provide that the customer may delay scheduled delivery dates and cancel orders prior to shipment without penalty. Because we incur operating expenses based on anticipated revenues and a high percentage of our expenses are fixed in the short term, any delay in generating or recognizing forecasted revenues could significantly harm our results of operations. 25 In addition, a significant portion of our orders generated and product shipments in each quarter occurs near the end of the quarter. Since individual orders can represent a meaningful percentage of our revenues and net income in any quarter, the deferral or cancellation of or failure to ship an order in a quarter can result in a revenue and net income shortfall that causes us to fail to meet securities analysts’ expectations, our business plan or financial guidance provided by us to investors for that period, and may cause fluctuations in our revenue in subsequent periods. Our operating results may also vary as a result of the timing of our release of new products. The introduction of a new product in any quarter may cause an increase in revenues in that quarter that may not be sustainable in subsequent quarters. Conversely, a delay in introducing a new product in a quarter may result in a decrease in revenues in that quarter and lost sales. Our results may also fluctuate based on the mix of products and services (i.e., hardware, software and extended warranty and maintenance services) ordered in a particular quarter. Further, actual events, circumstances, outcomes, and amounts differing from judgments, assumptions and estimates used in determining the values of certain assets (including the amounts of related valuation allowances), liabilities and other items reflected in our consolidated financial statements could significantly harm our results of operations. The factors described above are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and therefore, prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and could adversely affect our stock price. We expect our gross margins to vary over time and our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable, which may have a material adverse effect on our future profitability Our recent level of gross margins may not be sustainable and may be adversely affected by numerous factors, including: ● increased price competition; ● changes in customer, geographic or product mix (such as the mix of software versus hardware product sales); ● the pricing we are able to obtain from our component suppliers and contract manufacturers; ● new product introductions by us and by our competitors; ● changes in shipment volume; ● excess or obsolete inventory costs; ● increased industry consolidation among our customers, which may lead to decreased demand for, and downward pricing pressure on, our products; and ● increases in labor costs. Each of the above factors may be exacerbated by a decrease in demand for our established products and our transition to our next-generation products. Our failure to sustain our recent level of gross margins due to these or other factors may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 26 We are a defendant in a class action and in a consolidated shareholder derivative action, and these lawsuits and any future such lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows We and certain of our current and former executive officers and directors are defendants in a federal securities class action lawsuit and a consolidated shareholder derivative action. These lawsuits are described in Part I, Item 3 “Legal Proceedings” in this Form 10-K. These lawsuits may divert our attention from our ordinary business operations, and we may incur significant expenses associated with their defense (including, without limitation, substantial attorneys’ fees and other fees of professional advisors and potential obligations to indemnify current and former officers and directors who are or may become parties to such actions). Depending on the outcome of the class action lawsuit, we may be required to pay material damages and fines, consent to injunctions on future conduct and/or suffer other penalties, remedies or sanctions. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, liquidity and ability to meet our debt obligations and, consequently, could negatively impact the trading price of our common stock. In addition, there is the potential for additional shareholder litigation and for governmental investigations and/or enforcement actions. Any existing or future shareholder lawsuits and any future governmental investigations and/or enforcement actions could adversely impact our reputation, our relationships with our customers and our ability to generate revenue. The loss of any of our key personnel or our inability to successfully hire a permanent CEO and CFO could significantly harm our business, results of operations and competitive position In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in our industry can be intense. Our former President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) resigned in October 2013, and our Board of Directors is working to identify a successor. In the meantime, Errol Ginsberg is our Acting Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Ginsberg also currently serves as our Chairman of the Board and Chief Innovation Officer. Our former Chief Financial Officer (CFO) resigned in March 2014, and our Board of Directors is working to identify a successor. In the meantime, Brent Novak is our Acting Chief Financial Officer. Mr. Novak also currently serves as our Vice President of Finance. The succession and transition process may have a direct or indirect adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and competitive position. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and restricted stock units. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Moreover, companies in our industry whose employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that those competitors have engaged in unfair hiring practices. We may be subject to such claims as we seek to retain or hire qualified personnel, some of whom may currently be working for our competitors. Some of these claims may result in material litigation. We could incur substantial costs in defending ourselves against these claims, regardless of their merits. Such claims could also discourage potential employees who currently work for our competitors from joining us. Continued growth will strain our operations and require us to incur costs to maintain and upgrade our management and operational resources We have experienced growth in our operations, including number of employees, sales, products, facility locations and customers, including as a result of our recent acquisitions, and expect to continue to experience growth in the future. Unless we manage our past and future growth effectively, we may have difficulty in operating our business. As a result, we may inaccurately forecast sales and materials requirements, fail to integrate new personnel or fail to maintain adequate internal controls or systems, which may result in fluctuations in our operating results and cause the price of our stock to decline. We may continue to expand our operations to enhance our product development efforts and broaden our sales reach, which may place a significant strain on our management and operational resources. In order to manage our growth effectively, we must improve and implement our operational systems, procedures and controls on a timely basis. If we cannot manage growth effectively, our profitability could be significantly harmed. 27 If we are unable to expand and maintain our sales and distribution channels or are unable to successfully manage our expanded sales organization, our revenues and results of operations will be harmed Historically, we have relied primarily on a direct sales organization, supported by distributors, partners and other resellers, to sell our products. We may not be able to successfully expand our sales and distribution channels, and the cost of any expansion may exceed the revenues that we generate as a result of the expansion. To the extent that we are successful in expanding our sales and distribution channels, we cannot be certain that we will be able to compete successfully against the significantly larger and better-funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current or potential competitors. In some cases, we may grant exclusive rights to certain distributors to market our products in their specified territories. Our distributors may not market our products effectively or devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. In the past, we have had distributors who entered bankruptcy or who performed poorly and were therefore terminated as distributors of our products. Moreover, if we terminate a distribution relationship for performance-related or other reasons, we may be subject to wrongful termination claims which may result in material litigation and could adversely impact our profitability. Our inability to effectively manage the expansion of our sales and support staff, or to maintain existing or establish new relationships with successful distributors and partners, would harm our business, revenues and results of operations. Changes in industry and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products and asset impairments In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically realign our resources by restructuring our operations and/or our product offerings. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of a product offering may result in the recording of special charges to earnings, such as inventory, fixed asset and technology-related write-offs and charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, which could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial position. International activity may increase our cost of doing business or disrupt our business We plan to continue to maintain or expand our international operations and sales activities. Operating internationally involves inherent risks that we may not be able to control, including: ● difficulties in recruiting, hiring, training and retaining international personnel; ● increased complexity and costs of managing international operations; ● growing demand for and cost of technical personnel; ● changing governmental laws and regulations, including those related to income taxes, the UK Anti-Bribery Act, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; ● increased exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; ● political and economic instability, including military conflict and social unrest; ● commercial laws and business practices that favor local competition; ● differing labor and employment laws; ● supporting multiple languages; ● reduced or limited protections of intellectual property rights; ● more complicated logistical and distribution arrangements; and ● longer accounts receivable cycles and difficulties in collecting receivables. The above risks associated with our international operations and sales activities can restrict or adversely affect our ability to sell in international markets, disrupt our business and subject us to additional costs of doing business. 28 Some key components in our products come from sole or limited sources of supply, which exposes us to potential supply shortages that could disrupt the manufacture and sale of our products We and our contract manufacturers currently purchase a number of key components used to manufacture our products from sole or limited sources of supply for which alternative sources may not be available. From time to time, we have experienced shortages of key components, including chips, oscillators, memory devices and optical modules. We and our contract manufacturers have no guaranteed or long-term supply arrangements for these or other components, including field programmable gate arrays (FPGAs) and Network Processors (NPs), which are integrated circuits that can be repeatedly reprogrammed to perform different sets of functions as required. Financial or other difficulties faced by our suppliers or significant changes in market demand for necessary components could limit the availability to us and our contract manufacturers of these components. Any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these components could significantly harm our ability to meet scheduled product deliveries to our customers and cause us to lose sales. In addition, the purchase of these components on a sole or limited source basis subjects us to risks of price increases and potential quality assurance problems. Consolidation involving suppliers could further reduce the number of alternatives available to us and affect the availability and cost of components. An increase in the cost of components could make our products less competitive and result in lower gross margins. There are limited substitute supplies available for many of these components, including field programmable gate arrays. All of these components are critical to the production of our products, and competition exists with other manufacturers for these key components. In the event that we can no longer obtain materials from a sole source supplier, we might not be able to qualify or identify alternative suppliers in a timely fashion, or at all. Any extended interruption in the supply of any of the key components currently obtained from a sole or limited source or delay in transitioning to a replacement supplier’s product or replacement component into our systems could disrupt our operations and significantly harm our business in any given period. Our reported financial results could suffer if there is an impairment of goodwill or acquired intangible assets We are required (i) to test annually, and review when circumstances warrant, the value of our goodwill associated with past acquisitions and any future acquisitions, and (ii) to test the value of our acquisition-related intangible assets when circumstances warrant determining if an impairment has occurred. If such assets are deemed impaired, an impairment loss equal to the amount by which the applicable carrying amount exceeds (i) the implied fair value of the goodwill or (ii) the estimated fair value of acquired intangible assets would be recognized. This would result in an incremental charge for that quarter which would adversely impact our earnings for the period in which the impairment was determined to have occurred. For example, such impairment could occur if the market value of our Common Stock falls below the carrying value of our net assets for a sustained period. The recent economic downturn contributed to extreme price and volume fluctuations in global stock markets that reduced the market price of many technology company stocks, including ours. Such declines in our stock price or the failure of our stock price to recover from these declines, as well as any marked decline in our level of revenues or profit margins, increase the risk that goodwill may become impaired in future periods. We cannot accurately predict the amount and timing of any impairment of our goodwill or acquired intangible assets. Restructuring our workforce can be disruptive and harm our operating results and financial condition We have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to the economic environment, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. Restructurings can among other things result in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and, as a result, our operating results and financial condition could be negatively affected. 29 Legal proceedings may harm our business, results of operations and financial condition We are a party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the normal course of our business. Litigation and other legal proceedings can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. We cannot provide assurance that we will not be a party to additional legal proceedings in the future or that we will be able to favorably resolve our current lawsuits. To the extent legal proceedings continue for long time periods or are adversely resolved, our business, results of operations and financial position could be significantly harmed. For additional information regarding certain of the legal matters in which we are involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this Form 10-K and in Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K. For information regarding the risks associated with the shareholder class action and the consolidated shareholder derivative action, see “We are a defendant in a class action and in a consolidated shareholder derivative action, and these lawsuits and any future such lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows” above. Claims that we infringe third-party intellectual property rights could result in significant expenses or restrictions on our ability to sell our products From time to time, other parties may assert patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and items that are important to our business. We cannot provide assurance that others will not claim that we have infringed upon or misappropriated their intellectual property rights or that we do not in fact infringe upon or misappropriate those intellectual property rights. We have not generally conducted searches to determine whether the technology we have in our products infringes or misappropriates intellectual property rights held by third parties. Any claims asserting that any of our products or services infringe or misappropriate proprietary rights of third parties, if determined adversely to us, could significantly affect our ability to conduct business and harm our results of operations. Any such claims, with or without merit, could: ● be time-consuming; ● result in costly and protracted litigation; ● divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel; ● require us to modify the products or services at issue or to develop alternative technology, thereby causing delivery delays and the loss or deferral of revenues; ● require us to cease selling the products or services at issue; ● require us to pay substantial damage awards; ● expose us to indemnity claims from our customers; ● damage our reputation; or ● require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements which, if required, may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. In the event any such claim against us was successful and we could not obtain a license to the relevant technology on acceptable terms, license a substitute technology or redesign our products or services to avoid infringement or misappropriation, our revenues, results of operations, and competitive position could be harmed. 30 If we fail to accurately forecast our manufacturing requirements, we could incur additional costs and experience manufacturing delays We provide our contract manufacturers with rolling forecasts based on anticipated product orders to determine our manufacturing requirements. Some of the components used in our products have significant lead times or lead times which may unexpectedly increase depending on factors such as the specific supplier, contract terms and the demand for components at a given time. Because of these long lead times, we are often required to forecast and order products before we know what our specific manufacturing requirements will be. If we overestimate our product orders, our contract manufacturers may have excess inventory of completed products which we would be obligated to purchase. This will lead to increased costs and the risk of obsolescence. If we underestimate our product orders, our contract manufacturers may have inadequate inventory, which could result in delays in shipments, the loss or deferral of revenues and/or higher costs of sales. Costs are also added to our products when we are required to expedite delivery of our products to customers or of components with long lead times to our contract manufacturers. We cannot be certain that we will be able to accurately forecast our product orders and may in the future carry excess or obsolete inventory, be unable to fulfill customer demand, or both, thereby harming our revenues, results of operations and customer relationships. Failure by our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high quality products could harm our revenues, results of operations, competitive position and reputation We currently rely on a limited number of contract manufacturers to manufacture and assemble our products. We may experience delays in receiving product shipments from contract manufacturers or other problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of product. We cannot be certain that we will be able to effectively manage our contract manufacturers or that these manufacturers will meet our future requirements for timely delivery of products of sufficient quality and quantity. We intend to introduce new products and product enhancements, which will require that we rapidly achieve adequate production volumes by effectively coordinating with our suppliers and contract manufacturers. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of high-quality products or the loss of any of our contract manufacturers would cause a delay in our ability to fulfill customer orders while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and would harm our revenues, results of operations, competitive position and reputation. To the extent that our customers consolidate, they may reduce purchases of our products and demand more favorable terms and conditions from us, which would harm our revenues and profitability Consolidation of our customers could reduce the number of customers to whom our products could be sold. These merged customers could obtain products from a source other than us or demand more favorable terms and conditions from us, which would harm our revenues and profitability. In addition, our significant customers may merge with or acquire our competitors and discontinue their relationships with us. Our products may contain defects which may cause us to incur significant costs, divert our attention from product development efforts and result in a loss of customers Our existing products and any new or enhanced products we introduce may contain undetected software or hardware defects when they are first introduced or as new versions are released. These problems may cause us to incur significant damages or warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts and cause significant customer relation problems or loss of customers and reputation, all of which would harm our results of operations. A successful claim against us for an amount exceeding the limit on our product liability insurance policy would force us to use our own resources, to the extent available, to pay the claim, which could result in an increase in our expenses and a reduction of our working capital available for other uses, thereby harming our profitability and capital resources. Our failure to protect our intellectual property may significantly harm our results of operations and reputation Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our ability to establish, protect and maintain our proprietary rights to our intellectual property. We currently rely on a combination of patent, trade secret, trademark and copyright laws, and restrictions on disclosure and use, to establish, protect, and maintain our intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on trade secret laws to protect our proprietary processes and know-how. We also have patent applications and existing patents in the United States and other jurisdictions. We cannot be certain that any of these applications will be approved or that any such patents, if issued, or our existing patents, will be upheld. We also cannot be certain that our existing patents and any such additional patents, if issued, will be effective in protecting our proprietary technology. 31 We generally enter into assignment of rights and confidentiality agreements with our officers, employees and consultants. We also generally limit access to and distribution of our source code and further limit the disclosure and use of our other proprietary information. However, these measures provide only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. In addition, we may not have signed agreements containing adequate protective provisions in every case, and the contractual provisions that are in place may not provide us with adequate protection in all circumstances. Any infringement or misappropriation of our intellectual property rights could result in significant litigation costs, and any failure to adequately protect our intellectual property rights could result in our competitors’ offering similar products, potentially resulting in loss of one or more competitive advantages, loss of market share and decreased revenues. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, existing trade secret, copyright, patent and trademark laws afford us only limited protection. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. Accordingly, we may not be able to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary technologies or to deter others from developing similar technologies. Others may attempt to copy or reverse engineer aspects of our products or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. Further, monitoring the unauthorized use of our products and our intellectual property rights is difficult. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Litigation of this type could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could significantly harm our results of operations and reputation. The inability to successfully defend claims from taxing authorities or the adoption of new tax legislation could adversely affect our operating results and financial position We conduct business in many countries, which requires us to interpret the income tax laws and rulings in each of those jurisdictions. Due to the complexity of tax laws in those jurisdictions as well as the subjectivity of factual interpretations, our estimates of income tax liabilities may differ from actual payments or assessments. Claims from tax authorities related to these differences could have an adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, legislative bodies in the various countries in which we do business may from time to time adopt new tax legislation that could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Servicing our debt will require a significant amount of cash, and we may not have sufficient cash flow from our business to service our existing debt or debt we may incur Our ability to make scheduled payments of the principal of, to pay interest on or to refinance our existing or new indebtedness, including our convertible senior notes and any indebtedness under our 2012 credit facility, depends on our future performance, which is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our business may not continue to generate cash flow from operations in the future sufficient to service our indebtedness and make necessary capital expenditures. If we are unable to generate such cash flow, we may be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as selling assets, restructuring debt or obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We may not be able to engage in any of these activities or engage in these activities on desirable terms, which could result in a default on our existing or future debt obligations. The issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon any conversion of our Convertible Senior Notes would dilute the ownership interest of our existing shareholders, including holders who had previously converted their Convertible Senior Notes The issuance of shares of our Common Stock upon conversion of our Notes, including the effect on the conversion rate should a make whole adjustment event occur, would dilute the ownership interests of our existing shareholders. Any sales in the public market of our Common Stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our Common Stock. In addition, the existence of the Notes may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the Notes could depress the price of our Common Stock. 32 The fundamental change repurchase feature of the Convertible Senior Notes may delay or prevent an otherwise beneficial attempt to take over our company The terms of the Notes require us to offer to repurchase the Notes for cash in the event of a fundamental change (such as a change in control event or if our Common Stock ceases to be listed or quoted on any of the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq Global Select Market or the Nasdaq Global Market or any of their respective successors). A non-stock takeover of our company may also trigger the requirement that we repurchase the Notes. These features may have the effect of delaying or preventing a takeover of our company that would otherwise be beneficial to investors. We have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations On December 21, 2012, we entered into a credit agreement establishing a senior secured revolving credit facility (the “Credit Facility”) with certain institutional lenders that provides for an aggregate loan amount of up to $150.0 million. We may in the future borrow amounts under this Credit Facility and use the proceeds to fund working capital needs and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes, including acquisitions, stock repurchases and any partial refinancing of our Notes. Increases in our aggregate levels of debt may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: ● increasing our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures and to adverse economic and industry conditions; ● requiring the dedication of an increased portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes; and ● limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. If we fail to comply with certain covenants under our Credit Facility, any borrowings must be repaid, we may be prevented from further borrowing and/or the Credit Facility may be terminated by the lenders Our Credit Facility established in December 2012 imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. The financial covenants in the related credit agreement require us to maintain a maximum leverage ratio below a specific threshold and minimum interest coverage above a specified threshold. The credit agreement also requires us, among other things, to timely deliver certain financial statements to the lenders. We may also be in default under the credit agreement if our payment obligations under the Notes are accelerated or if we are required to offer to repurchase the Notes in the event of any delisting of our common stock. Our failure to comply with such covenants and any such events under the Indenture could cause a default under the credit agreement. We may then be required to repay any borrowings under the Credit Facility with capital from other sources. We could also be blocked from borrowing or obtaining letters of credit under the Credit Facility and the Credit Facility could be terminated by the lenders. Under these circumstances, other sources of capital may not be available to us or may be available only on unfavorable terms. In the event of a default, it is possible that assets of the Company and certain of our subsidiaries may be attached or seized by the lenders. While we would otherwise be in default of our obligations under the credit agreement to deliver certain financial statements to the lenders and to comply with the financial reporting requirements under the Indenture, the lenders have agreed to extend the period for such deliveries and to provide temporary waivers of any default arising from our failure to comply with the Indenture. There can be no assurance, however, that any such waivers or extensions will be available in the future or will extend until such time as we are able to deliver all required financial statements under the credit agreement. 33 Because we are in default under the Indenture governing our Notes and are subject to potential delisting by Nasdaq, we may become subject to material financial obligations under the Indenture Under the Indenture for our Notes, we are required to file with the trustee our reports that we file with the SEC within 15 days after they are required to be filed with the SEC. We are currently in default of this obligation and, following the filing of this Form 10-K, will remain in default due to our failure to file with the trustee within 15 days after its prescribed due date our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014 (the “2014 First Quarter Form 10-Q”). If the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes give us notice of, and direct us to cure, such default, and the default is not cured within 60 days after our receipt of such notice, then an event of default will occur. Upon any such event of default, we may elect that for the first 180 days (or such lesser amount of time during which the event of default continues), the sole remedy be the payment to the holders of the Notes of additional interest at an annual rate equal to 0.50% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes. If we make such an election and the event of default is not cured within 180 days, or if we do not make such an election when the event of default first occurs, the trustee or the holders of at least 25% in aggregate principal amount of the Notes may declare the Notes to be due and payable immediately. Under the Indenture, if our common stock were to cease to be listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market as a result of the delayed filing of the 2014 First Quarter Form 10-Q or for any other reason, then any holder of Notes could require us to repurchase the holder’s Notes in accordance with the terms of the Indenture. In the event of any acceleration or repurchase obligations, sources of funding may not be available to us or may only be available on unfavorable terms. Any acceleration of the Notes or required offer to repurchase the Notes could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. Our investment portfolio may become impaired by deterioration of the financial markets We follow an established investment policy and set of objectives designed to preserve principal and liquidity, to generate a market return given the policy’s guidelines and to avoid certain investment concentrations. The policy also sets forth credit quality standards and limits our exposure to any one non-government issuer. Our investment portfolio as of December 31, 2013 consisted of money market funds, U.S. Treasury, government agency debt securities and corporate debt securities. These investments are classified as available-for-sale and are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at fair value. Although our investment portfolio’s amortized cost approximated fair value as of December 31, 2013, we cannot predict future market conditions or market liquidity, or the future value of our investments. As a result, we can provide no assurance that our investment portfolio will not be impaired in the future and that any such impairment will not materially and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Changes in laws, regulations and financial accounting standards may affect our reported results of operations A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business and could have an adverse effect on our stock price. Our business is subject to changing regulation that has resulted in increased costs and may continue to result in additional costs in the future We are subject to laws, rules and regulations of federal and state regulatory authorities, including The Nasdaq and financial market entities charged with the protection of investors and the oversight of companies whose securities are publicly traded. During the past few years, these entities, including the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, the SEC and Nasdaq, have issued new requirements and regulations and continue to develop additional regulations and requirements partly in response to laws enacted by Congress, most notably the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”) and, more recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of substantial management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. 34 In particular, our efforts to comply with Section 404 of SOX and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm’s audit of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, have required, and continue to require, the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. To the extent that we identify areas of our disclosures controls and procedures and/or internal controls requiring improvement (such as the material weaknesses, discussed in Item 9A herein, that existed as of December 31, 2013), we may have to incur additional costs and divert management’s time and attention. Because these laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance becomes available. This evolution may result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and additional costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to our disclosure and governance practices. We are also subject to laws, rules and regulations of authorities in other countries where we do business, and these laws, rules and regulations are also subject to change and uncertainty regarding their application and interpretation. The growth of our operations, both domestically and internationally, has resulted in and is likely to continue to result in increased expense, resources and time spent on matters relating to compliance, including monitoring and training activities. In addition, in May 2013, the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (“COSO”) issued a new version of its internal control framework, which will be effective December 15, 2014. We have not yet developed a plan to integrate the 2013 edition of the COSO framework into our assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting. We may determine, following implementation of the 2013 COSO framework, that deficiencies exist in our internal controls over financial reporting, which may adversely affect our financial results and result in a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Compliance with recently adopted rules of the SEC relating to “conflict minerals” may require us and our suppliers to incur substantial expense and may result in disclosure by us that certain minerals used in products we contract to manufacture are not “DRC conflict free” The SEC recently adopted disclosure requirements under Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, regarding the source of certain conflict minerals for issuers for which such conflict minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of a product manufactured, or contracted to be manufactured, by that issuer, which are mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo (“DRC”) and adjoining countries. The metals covered by the rules include tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold, commonly referred to as “3TG.” Because Ixia contracts to manufacture products which may contain tin, tantalum, tungsten, or gold, we will be required under these rules to determine whether those minerals are necessary to the functionality or production of our products and, if so, the rules require us to conduct a reasonable country of origin inquiry to determine if we know or have reason to believe any of the minerals used in the production process may have originated from the DRC or an adjoining country (collectively referred to as “covered countries”). The time required to be spent by our management and the management of our suppliers in this endeavor could be significant. There may be material costs associated with complying with the disclosure requirements, such as costs related to the due diligence process of determining the source of certain minerals used in our products, as well as costs of possible changes to products, processes, or sources of supply as a consequence of such verification activities. There can be no assurance that these costs will not have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we are unable to determine the minerals did not originate from a covered country or conclude that there is no reason to believe that the minerals used in the production process may have originated in a covered country, then we and our suppliers would be required to perform supply chain due diligence on the source and chain of custody of conflict minerals to determine if they originated in one of the covered countries and, if so, whether they financed or benefited armed groups in the covered countries. The implementation of these requirements could affect the sourcing and availability of products we purchase from our suppliers and contract manufacturers. This may also reduce the number of suppliers who provide products containing conflict free metals, and may affect our ability to obtain products in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner or at competitive prices. Our material sourcing is broad based and multi-tiered, and we may not be able to easily verify the origins for all metals used in our products. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy those customers who require that all of the components of our products be certified as conflict-free, which could place us at a competitive disadvantage if we are unable to do so. The new rule went into effect for calendar year 2013 and we filed our first disclosure report with the SEC on June 2, 2014. 35 If we fail to maintain our relationships with industry experts, our products may lose industry and market recognition and sales could decline Our relationships with industry experts, in particular in the field of performance analysis and measurement of networks and network equipment, are critical for maintaining our industry credibility and for developing new products. These experts have established standard testing methodologies that evaluate new network equipment products and technologies. We provide these experts and their testing labs with our products and engineering assistance to perform tests on these new network equipment products and technologies. These industry experts refer to our products in their publications which has given our products industry recognition. In addition, these labs offer us the opportunity to test our products on the newest network equipment and technologies, thereby assisting us in developing new products that are designed to meet evolving technological needs. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain our relationships with industry experts or that our competitors will not maintain similar or superior relationships with industry experts. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with industry experts or if competitors have superior relationships with them, our products may lose industry and market recognition which could harm our reputation and competitive position and cause our sales to decline. Our business and operations are subject to the risks of earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other natural disasters Our operations could be subject to natural disasters and other business disruptions, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. A number of our facilities and those of our suppliers, our contract manufacturers, and our customers are located in areas that have been affected by natural disasters such as ice and snow storms, earthquakes, floods or hurricanes in the past. For example, currently, our corporate headquarters and many of our customers are located in California. California historically has been vulnerable to natural disasters and other risks, such as earthquakes, fires and floods, which at times have disrupted the local economy and posed physical risks to our property. To mitigate some of this risk, certain of our U.S. and international locations are insured up to certain levels against losses and interruptions caused by earthquakes, floods and/or other natural disasters. However, there can be no guarantee that such insurance may be adequate in the event of a natural disaster and a significant natural disaster could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition. Man-made problems such as cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses or terrorism may disrupt our operations and harm our business, reputation and operating results Despite our implementation of network security measures, our network may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. Cybersecurity attacks, in particular, are evolving and include, but are not limited to, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are not aware of any security breaches or cyber-attacks to our networking infrastructure. Our daily business operations require us to retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to customers, suppliers and business partners within our networking infrastructure. The ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals, and organizations like Ixia are susceptible to multiple variations of attacks on our networks on a daily basis. Our networking infrastructure and related assets may be subject to unauthorized access by hackers, employee errors, or other unforeseen activities. Such issues could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third party will exploit our critical assets such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. To the extent that such disruptions occur, they may cause delays in the manufacture or shipment of our products and the cancellation of customer orders and, as a result, our business operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected resulting in a possible loss of business or brand reputation. In addition, the effects of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The continued threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruption to the economy and create further uncertainties in the economy. Energy shortages, such as gas or electricity shortages, could have similar negative impacts. To the extent that such disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer orders or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. 36 Our use of open source software in our products could adversely affect our ability to sell our products and subject us to possible litigation Many of our products contain software modules licensed to us by third-party authors under “open source” licenses. If we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner and then distribute the combined software, we could, under certain open source licenses, be required to license that combined software under the terms of that open source license as well as release the source code of the combined software to third parties. This could allow third parties to use our proprietary software at no charge, could enable our competitors to create similar products with lower development effort and time, and ultimately could result in a loss of product sales and lower revenues for us. Although we attempt to monitor our use of open source software to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend, we cannot assure you that our processes for controlling our use of open source software in our products will be effective. Further, there have been claims against companies that distribute or use open source software in their products and services, asserting that open source software infringes the claimants’ intellectual property rights. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software. If we are held to have breached the terms of an open source software license, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products, to discontinue the sale of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished in a timely manner, to allow third parties to use our products at no charge under the terms of that open source software license, or to make generally available, in source code form, our proprietary software, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. In addition to risks related to license requirements, use of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or assurance of title or controls on origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with the use of open source software, such as the lack of warranties or assurances of title, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, adversely affect our business. Provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may make it difficult for a third party to acquire us, despite the possible benefits to our shareholders Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of our Common Stock are subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that we may issue. The issuance of preferred stock could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. Furthermore, some provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws could delay or make more difficult a merger, tender offer or proxy contest involving us. Our articles of incorporation include provisions that limit the persons who may call special meetings of shareholders and establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors and/or for proposing matters that can be acted on by shareholders at shareholder meetings. These and other provisions of our articles of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in our control despite possible benefits to our shareholders, may discourage bids at a premium over the market price of our Common Stock and may harm the market price of our Common Stock and the voting and other rights of our shareholders. 37 Our stock price may continue to be volatile The trading price of our Common Stock has fluctuated substantially in recent years. The trading price may be subject to future fluctuations in response to, among other events and factors: (i) the global economic environment; (ii) variations in our quarterly operating results; (iii) the gain, loss or timing of significant orders; (iv) changes in earnings estimates by analysts who cover our stock or the stock of our competitors; (v) changes in our revenue and/or earnings guidance as periodically announced in our earnings calls or press releases; (vi) announcements of technological innovations and new products by us or our competitors; (vii) changes in domestic and international economic, political and business conditions; (viii) consolidation and general conditions in our industry; (ix) the announcement of significant transactions, such as a proposed business acquisition; and (x) changes in our executive management team. In addition, the stock market in general has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices for many companies in our industry that have been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies. These market fluctuations have affected and may continue to affect the market price of our Common Stock. 38 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 