ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Set forth below are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual future results to differ materially from those described herein. Risk Related to the Proposed Merger with Windstream Corporation Our proposed Merger with Windstream may be delayed or may not occur at all, which could negatively affect the market price of our common stock and our business and financial results. Completion of the proposed Merger with Windstream is conditioned upon the receipt of certain governmental consents and approvals, and our shareholders’ approval. However, no assurance can be given that the required conditions to closing will be satisfied or that the Merger will be completed. If the proposed Merger is not consummated, it could adversely affect the market price of our common stock or our business and financial results. In the event of a termination of the Merger Agreement, we may be required to pay Windstream a termination fee of $25.0 million in certain circumstances. The Merger Agreement contains various covenants which severely restrict our ability to operate outside the ordinary course of business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results and future prospects. The Merger Agreement contains various covenants that restrict our ability to execute many of our strategies or undertake certain corporate initiatives. If the proposed Merger is not consummated, in the interim these covenants could preclude us from pursuing other business opportunities that could be beneficial to the Company. Whether or not the proposed Merger with Windstream is completed, the uncertainty of the transaction could create disruptions in our business, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Prior to the completion of the proposed Merger with Windstream, our business will be subject to disruptions relating to the transaction. The disruptions could include the following: • the attention of our management may be diverted from the operations of the business toward the completion of the proposed Merger; • current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined company following the Merger, which could adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key personnel; and • customers may delay or defer decisions or even choose to discontinue their service with us which could negatively impact revenues, earnings and cash flows, regardless of whether the Merger is completed. Any of these disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. We and Windstream are exposed to several additional risks relating to the Merger. In addition to the risks described above, we and our shareholders and Windstream are exposed to several risks relating to the proposed Merger, including the following: • The exchange ratio for the stock portion of the merger consideration will not be adjusted in the event that the price of Windstream common stock declines before the Merger is completed. As a result, the value of the shares of Windstream common stock at the time Iowa Telecom shareholders receive them could be less than the value of those shares today. 27 Table of Contents • Regulators may impose conditions that could prevent completion of the Merger or reduce the anticipated benefits from the Merger. As a result, the price of Windstream common stock may be adversely affected. • Windstream may not realize the anticipated synergies, cost savings and growth opportunities from the Merger. • Failure to quickly and efficiently integrate Iowa Telecom’s technology, products and services could reduce Windstream’s profitability, affect its stock price, and either delay or prevent realization of many of the potential benefits of the Merger. • Windstream’s management may be required to dedicate significant time and effort to the integration of Iowa Telecom into Windstream which could divert their attention from other business concerns. • Windstream expects to incur significant non-recurring expenses related to the Merger. • The market price of Windstream common stock may decline as a result of the Merger. • The price of Windstream common stock and Windstream’s results of operations may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of Iowa Telecom common stock and Iowa Telecom’s results of operations. • Iowa Telecom shareholders will have reduced ownership and voting interests after the Merger and will exercise less influence over management of Windstream than currently exercised over management of Iowa Telecom. • Iowa Telecom shareholders will have substantively different rights with respect to their holdings following the Merger. • Certain executive officers of Iowa Telecom, including one who is a director of Iowa Telecom, may have potential conflicts of interest in recommending that Iowa Telecom shareholders vote in favor of the approval and adoption of the Merger Agreement. • The Merger Agreement limits Iowa Telecom’s ability to pursue alternatives to the Merger, and in certain instances requires payment of a termination fee, which could deter a third party from proposing an alternative transaction to the Merger. • Iowa Telecom, its directors, and Windstream are defendants in purported class action lawsuits seeking to enjoin the Merger. Each of the risks mentioned above is described in detail in Amendment No. 1 to the Form S-4 filed by Windstream with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 18, 2010 (the “Windstream S-4”), under the heading “RISK FACTORS—Risk Factors Related to the Merger.” In addition, in the event that the Merger is consummated, Iowa Telecom stockholders who continue to hold the Windstream stock they receive as merger consideration will be subject to the risks related to Windstream described in the Windstream S-4 under the heading “RISK FACTORS—Risk Factors Related to Windstream after the Merger.” Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Ownership Our dividend policy may limit our ability to pursue growth opportunities. Our board of directors adopted a dividend policy, effective upon closing of our initial public offering in November 2004, which reflects an intention to distribute a substantial portion of the cash generated by our business in excess of operating needs, interest and principal payments on our indebtedness and capital expenditures as regular quarterly dividends to our shareholders. As a result, we may not retain a sufficient amount of cash to finance a material expansion of our business, or to fund our operations consistent with past 28 Table of Contents levels of funding in the event of a significant business downturn. In addition, because a significant portion of cash available to pay dividends will be distributed to holders of our common stock under our dividend policy, our ability to pursue any material expansion of our business, through acquisitions or increased capital spending, will depend more than it otherwise would on our ability to obtain third party financing. We cannot assure you that such financing will be available to us at all, or at an acceptable cost. The Merger Agreement prohibits the payment of dividends other than regular quarterly dividends of $0.405 per share in accordance with past dividend policy and practice. Our equity owners may not receive any dividends. We are not obligated to pay dividends. Dividend payments are not guaranteed and are within the absolute discretion of our board of directors, subject to the restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement and applicable law. Future dividends with respect to shares of our common stock, if any, will depend on, among other things, our results of operations, working capital requirements, financial condition, contractual restrictions, business opportunities, anticipated cash needs, provisions of applicable law and other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant. In addition, we have reported a loss from continuing operations in the past. We might not generate sufficient cash from operations in the future to pay dividends on our common stock in the intended amounts or at all. Our board of directors may decide not to pay dividends at any time and for any reason. Our dividend policy is based upon our directors’ current assessment of our business and the environment in which we operate, and that assessment could change based on competitive or technological developments (which could, for example, increase our need for capital expenditures), new growth opportunities or other factors. If our cash flows from operations for future periods were to fall below our minimum expectations, we would need either to reduce or eliminate dividends or, to the extent permitted under the terms of our credit facilities, fund a portion of our dividends with borrowings or from other sources. If we were to use working capital or permanent borrowings to fund dividends, we would have less cash and/or borrowing capacity available for future dividends and other purposes, which could negatively affect our financial condition, our results of operations, our liquidity and our ability to maintain or expand our business. Our board is free to depart from or change our dividend policy at any time and could do so, for example, if it were to determine that we had insufficient cash to take advantage of growth opportunities. In addition, our credit facilities contain limitations on our ability to pay dividends. See “Dividend Policy and Restrictions” in Item 5 of this report. The reduction or elimination of dividends may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. We have substantial indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could restrict our ability to pay dividends. Our ability to make distributions, pay dividends or make other payments will be subject to applicable law and contractual restrictions contained in the instruments governing any indebtedness of ours and our subsidiaries, including our credit facilities. The degree to which we are leveraged on a consolidated basis could have important consequences to the holders of our common stock, including the following: • our ability in the future to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or acquisitions may be limited; • a significant portion of our cash flow from operations is likely to be dedicated to the payment of the principal of and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing funds available for future operations, capital expenditures and/or dividends on our common stock; • we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and be limited in our ability to withstand competitive pressures; and • we may have limited flexibility to plan for and react to changes in our business or strategy. In addition, we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement. Any additional debt incurred by us could increase the risks associated with our substantial leverage. 29 Table of Contents We are subject to restrictive debt covenants and other requirements related to our outstanding debt that limit our business flexibility by imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. Covenants in our credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions prohibit or limit, among other things: • the incurrence of additional indebtedness and the issuance of preferred stock and certain redeemable capital stock; • the payment of dividends on, and purchase or redemption of, capital stock; • a number of other restricted payments, including investments and acquisitions; • specified sales of assets; • specified transactions with affiliates; • the creation of liens on our assets; • consolidations, mergers and transfers of all or substantially all of our assets; • our ability to change the nature of our business; and • our ability to make capital expenditures. These restrictions could limit our ability to obtain future financing, make acquisitions, fund capital expenditures, withstand downturns in our business or take advantage of business opportunities. Furthermore, the credit facilities also require us to maintain specified total leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios, to satisfy specified financial condition tests and may require us to make annual mandatory prepayments with a portion of our available cash. See “Long-Term Debt and Revolving Credit Facilities” in Item 7 of this report. Our ability to comply with the ratios or tests may be affected by events beyond our control, including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. A breach of any of these covenants, ratios or tests could result in a default under the credit facilities. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facilities, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facilities to be immediately due and payable. If the lenders accelerate the payment of the indebtedness under the credit facilities, our assets may not be sufficient to repay in full this indebtedness and our other indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance our credit facilities at maturity on favorable terms or at all. Our credit facilities will mature in full on November 23, 2011. We may not be able to renew or refinance the credit facilities, or any renewal or refinancing may occur on less favorable terms. If we are unable to refinance or renew our credit facilities, our failure to repay all amounts due on the maturity date would cause a default under the credit facilities. In addition, given the current credit environment, our ability to access the capital markets may be restricted and our interest expense may increase significantly if we refinance our credit facilities on terms that are less favorable to us than the terms of our existing credit facilities, which could impair our ability to pay dividends. Due to recent financial market conditions, we may seek funding under our revolving credit facility or a commitment to lend incremental term loans and learn that our lenders cannot fulfill our request for cash. We have an agreement with the Rural Telephone Finance Cooperative, which we depend upon for our revolving credit needs. In spite of the contractual obligation of the institution to perform under the financing agreement, and in spite of our attempts to remain informed of the capability of any institution to perform their functions for us, we may learn that our request for cash on any given day cannot be fulfilled. 30 Table of Contents We will require a significant amount of cash, which may not be available to us, to service our debt, pay dividends and fund our other liquidity needs. Our ability to make payments, refinance or repay our debt, to fund planned capital expenditures, pay dividends and to expand our business will depend largely upon our future operating performance. Our future operating performance is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative and regulatory factors, as well as other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not generate enough cash flow and future borrowings may not be available to us under our credit facilities or otherwise, sufficient to enable us to pay our debt, pay dividends or fund our other liquidity needs. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt requirements, we will be required to refinance our credit facilities. We may not be able to refinance any of our debt, including the credit facilities, under such circumstances, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we were unable to refinance our debt or obtain new financing under these circumstances, we would have to consider other options, including: • sales of certain assets to meet our debt service requirements; • sales of equity; and • negotiations with our lenders to restructure the applicable debt. Our credit facilities could restrict our ability to do some of these things. If we are forced to pursue any of the above options under distressed conditions, our business and/or the value of our common stock could be adversely affected. There may be volatility in the trading price of our common stock, which could negatively affect the value of an investment in our common stock. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely as a result of various factors, such as period-to-period fluctuations in our operating results, sales of our common stock by significant shareholders, developments in the telecommunications industry, the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock or changes in financial estimates or opinions by analysts, competitive factors, regulatory developments, economic and other external factors, interest rates, general market conditions and market conditions affecting the stock of telecommunications companies in particular. Telecommunications companies have in the past experienced extreme volatility in the trading prices and volumes of their securities, which has often been unrelated to operating performance. Any such market volatility may have a significant adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Future sales, or the possibility of future sales, of a substantial amount of our common stock may depress the price of the shares of our common stock. Future sales, or the availability for sale in the public market, of substantial amounts of our common stock could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through future sales of equity securities. Members of our management and other employees held fully vested options to purchase a total of 38,141 shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2009, all of which have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may be exercised and sold at any time. We may issue shares of our common stock, or other securities, from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments, subject to the restrictions contained in the Merger Agreement. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of shares of our common stock, or the number or aggregate principal amount, as the case may be, of other securities that we may issue, may in turn be significant. We may also register, or grant registration rights covering, those shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. 31 Table of Contents If the Merger with Windstream is not completed, our organizational documents could limit another party’s ability to acquire us and therefore could deprive our investors of the opportunity to obtain a takeover premium for their shares. If the Merger with Windstream is not completed, a number of provisions in our articles of incorporation and bylaws will make it difficult for another company to acquire us and, therefore, for investors to receive any related takeover premium for their shares. For example, our articles of incorporation provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit removal of directors without cause and authorize the issuance of preferred stock without shareholder approval and upon such terms as the board of directors may determine. The rights of the holders of shares of our common stock will be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of holders of any class or series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. We are also subject to laws that may have a similar effect. For example, federal and state telecommunications laws and regulations generally prohibit a direct or indirect transfer of control over our business without prior regulatory approval. Section 490.1110 of the Iowa Business Corporation Act prohibits us from engaging in a business combination with an interested shareholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested shareholder unless certain conditions are met. The Iowa Business Corporation Act also provides that only shareholders representing at least 50% of our shares entitled to vote may request that our board of directors call a special meeting of shareholders and that, in evaluating any acquisition offer, our board of directors may consider the interests of our employees, suppliers, creditors and customers, the interests of the communities in which we operate, and the long-term interests of our company and the shareholders, in addition to the financial interests of shareholders. Factors requiring us to pay cash taxes in future periods may affect our ability to pay dividends. We currently are able to take deductions of approximately $44 million from taxable income associated with the amortization of intangibles through June 2015. In addition, as of December 31, 2009, we had net operating losses to offset taxable income of $154 million, which will expire in 2021 through 2024. Consequently, in the future we may be required to pay cash income taxes because all of our net operating losses have been used or have expired, or because our intangible assets have been fully amortized. Any of the foregoing would have the effect of increasing our taxable income and potentially reducing our after-tax cash flow available for payment of dividends in future periods, and may require us to reduce dividend payments on our common stock in such future periods. Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Competition in the telecommunications industry could result in access line losses or reduce our customer base, possibly requiring that we lower our rates, increase marketing expenditures, invest in new technologies or capabilities or use discounting and promotional campaigns that adversely affect our margins. We face actual or potential competition from other telecommunications service providers, including wireless service providers, who have entered and may continue to enter our service areas. Such competition has resulted in access line losses. In general, when we lose a customer to a competitor for local service we also lose that customer for all related services, such as long distance and Internet service, and may also lose the access charge revenues for that customer. We have interconnection agreements with 44 of the competitive local exchange carriers and 31 wireless carriers authorized to offer local service in our service area. Because we have multiple subsidiaries, we have multiple interconnection agreements with some competitors. Six of the 44 competitive local exchange carriers are municipal telephone utilities. Other communities we serve may in the future evaluate and decide to establish a municipal telephone utility. We cannot predict the likelihood of further competition from municipal telecommunications utilities on our business. MCC is offering voice services through a business arrangement with Sprint Communications L.P. (“Sprint”). On June 23, 2006, we filed a complaint against the Iowa Utilities Board and Sprint in the U.S. District 32 Table of Contents Court for the Southern District of Iowa asking the court to rule that the Iowa Utilities Board acted unlawfully when it required us to enter into an interconnection agreement with Sprint and asking the court to invalidate the agreement. On April 15, 2008, the court issued a ruling in favor of the Iowa Utilities Board and Sprint, therefore maintaining the status quo in which we are obligated to enter into an interconnection agreement with Sprint. On April 28, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit affirmed the lower court’s decision (and, ultimately, the Iowa Utilities Board’s decision). On January 22, 2007, we filed a second complaint against the Iowa Utilities Board and Sprint in U.S. District Court asking the court to rule that the Iowa Utilities Board acted unlawfully when it interpreted the interconnection agreement to require Iowa Telecom to provide certain services to Sprint in the manner requested by Sprint. On June 12, 2009, the District Court held that the Iowa Utilities Board acted improperly by requiring us to serve as a traffic-switching intermediary between Sprint and third-party long distance carriers. On July 31, 2006, MCC filed a complaint in the Iowa District Court for Polk County alleging that our refusal to accede to Sprint’s negotiation demands improperly interfered with MCC’s contracts and prospective customer relationships. The proceeding was stayed while our first federal complaint was pending but the stay was lifted after issuance of the Eighth Circuit’s April 28, 2009 decision. On January 20, 2010, we executed an interconnection agreement with MCC that envisions MCC connecting directly to us rather than through Sprint and on February 5, 2010, MCC dismissed its Iowa District Court complaint. We also face competition from sources other than wireline competition and wireline competitive local exchange carriers. Wireless providers, for example, currently compete in most of our markets. We expect this competition to continue, and likely become more acute, in the future. We also compete, or may in the future compete, with companies that provide other close substitutes for the traditional telephone services we provide, like cable television, voice over Internet protocol, high-speed fiber optic networks or satellite telecommunications services, and companies that might provide traditional telephone services over nontraditional network infrastructures, like electric utilities. We are subject to regulations, like those requiring us to provide number portability for wireless carriers, that reduce the barriers to entry faced by some providers of substitute services, and may be subject to other regulations favoring substitute services in the future. We may lose access lines due to general economic conditions and competition. Our business generates revenue by delivering voice and data services over access lines. In the past, we have experienced net access line loss due to challenging economic conditions and increased competition. Our total access line count increased by 0.6% during 2008 and increased 4.5% during 2009. Access lines decreased 7.5% for 2008, and 6.5% for 2009, if we exclude lines served by our competitive local exchange carrier and access lines acquired during 2008 and 2009, respectively. We are affected both by the economic effects of general demographic trends in the rural Midwest as well as, to some extent, more general economic downturns. Continued access line losses could adversely affect our revenues and earnings. The recent severe contraction in the global financial markets may have an impact on our business and financial condition Diminished availability of credit and liquidity due to the recent severe contraction in the global financial markets may impact the financial health of the Company’s customers, vendors and partners, which in turn may negatively impact the Company’s revenues and operating expenses. We may lose access lines due to the economic conditions and a declining population in many rural Midwest communities. Virtually all of our customers and operations are located in Iowa and Minnesota. Due to our geographic concentration, the successful operation and growth of our businesses is dependent on economic conditions in 33 Table of Contents Iowa and Minnesota. The Iowa and Minnesota economies, in turn, are dependent upon many factors, including the strength of the agricultural economy along with the manufacturing and service industries. Furthermore, the economies of rural communities, such as those that we serve, are affected by many of the same factors as the Iowa and Minnesota economies in general. In addition, rural communities face additional challenges to their economic stability and growth. The populations of many rural communities in Iowa and Minnesota, particularly smaller towns, have been declining. Any deterioration in general economic conditions in Iowa and Minnesota are likely to result in lower demand for our services, which would reduce our revenues. We may in the future compete with the Iowa Communications Network or with a future purchaser of the assets now owned by the Iowa Communications Network. The Iowa Communications Network, a state-owned limited use network with more than 3,000 miles of fiber optic cable extending into all 99 Iowa counties, and capable of providing a variety of voice, data and video communication services, currently is prohibited by state law from providing telephone service to parties other than school districts, higher education institutions, state and federal agencies, the United States Postal Service, hospitals, physicians’ clinics and public libraries. The assets now owned by the Iowa Communications Network could be used to provide voice, data and video communications to other users. The State of Iowa has previously considered modifying state law to remove some of the usage restrictions applicable to the Iowa Communications Network and/or to permit the sale of the Iowa Communications Network to a private party. A sale of the Iowa Communications Network or its assets, or a change in the law permitting broader use of the Iowa Communications Network, could provide additional competition for us. We may not be able to integrate future technologies, respond effectively to customer requirements or provide new services. The communications industry is subject to rapid and significant changes in technology, frequent new service introductions and evolving industry standards. We cannot predict the effect of these technological changes on our business. New technologies and products may not be compatible with our existing technologies and systems. In addition, our existing technologies and systems may not be competitive with new superior technologies and products, which may reduce service prices. These developments could require us to incur costs for equipment upgrades or to procure additional products that could be expensive. If we do not adequately replace or upgrade our technology and equipment that becomes obsolete, we may not be able to compete effectively. Technological changes in the communications industry may have a material adverse effect on our business or financial results. We may not be able to obtain timely access to new technology on satisfactory terms or incorporate new technology into our systems in a cost effective manner, or at all. In addition to technological advances, other factors could require us to further expand or adapt our network, including an increasing number of customers, demand for greater data transmission capacity, failure of our technology and equipment to support operating results anticipated in our business plan and changes in our customers’ service requirements. Expanding or adapting our network could require substantial additional financial, operational and managerial resources, any of which may not be available to us. Network failures and other disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. To be successful, we will need to continue providing our customers with a high capacity, reliable and secure network. Some of the risks to our network and infrastructure and the networks and infrastructures of our third party service providers include: • physical damage to access lines, central offices, central office equipment, or equipment used in our underlying voice and data networks or to our corporate headquarters; • power loss from, among other things, adverse weather conditions; 34 Table of Contents • capacity limitations; • software and hardware defects and malfunctions; • breaches of security, including sabotage, tampering, computer viruses and break-ins; and • other disruptions that are beyond our control. Disruptions or system failures may cause interruptions in service or reduced capacity for customers. If service is not restored in a timely manner, agreements with our customers or service standards set by the Iowa Utilities Board may obligate us to provide credits or other remedies, which would reduce our revenues or increase our costs. Service disruptions could also damage our reputation with customers, causing us to lose existing customers or have difficulty attracting new ones. We may not be able to maintain the necessary rights-of-way for our network. We are dependent on rights-of-way and other permits from railroads, utilities, state highway authorities, local governments and transit authorities to install conduit and related telecommunications equipment for any expansion of our network. We may need to renew current rights-of-way for our network and cannot assure you that we would be successful in renewing these agreements on acceptable terms. Some of our agreements may be short-term, revocable at will or subject to termination upon customary default provisions, and we may not have access to existing rights-of-way after they have expired or terminated. If any of these agreements were terminated or could not be renewed, we may be required to remove our existing facilities from existing locations such as under the streets or be forced to abandon our networks. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain right-of-way agreements on favorable terms, or at all, in new service areas, and, if we are unable to do so, our ability to expand our network, if we decide to do so, could be impaired. In addition, we may be required to relocate our facilities to comply with state or local laws or to allow for public infrastructure changes. Such relocations may require significant expenditures by us that are not reimbursed. Our competitive local exchange carrier strategy may adversely affect our profitability. We intend to expand our operations in both telephone and Internet services through our four competitive local exchange carrier subsidiaries into areas in close proximity to our incumbent local exchange carrier territory. As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 42,700 competitive local exchange carrier access lines focusing primarily on business customers. Competitive local exchange carrier profitability is contingent on obtaining customers in competition with the incumbent local exchange service provider in a cost-effective manner. Our wholly-owned CLEC subsidiaries utilize wholesale contracts with Qwest, Century Link and Frontier to purchase certain services from these providers. CLEC profitability could be negatively impacted if such wholesale contracts were either not available, or available only at a higher cost than we incur today. Either an incumbent provider or another competitive local exchange carrier may diminish our profitability by expanding its marketing efforts or offering additional products. Furthermore, as a result of the statutory provisions enacted in 2005 regarding deregulation of basic local services in some markets, the incumbent provider will have greater flexibility to respond to competition from our competitive local exchange carriers, which may reduce our margins and have other negative impacts on our profitability. We face risks associated with our strategy of growth through acquisitions. Any future acquisitions will depend on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, negotiate acceptable terms for their acquisition and finance those acquisitions. In addition, future acquisitions by us could result in the incurrence of indebtedness or contingent liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, and our ability to achieve sufficient cash flow, provide adequate working capital and service our indebtedness. Any future acquisitions could also expose us to increased risks, including: • the difficulty of integrating the acquired personnel, network, operations and other support systems; 35 Table of Contents • the potential disruption of our ongoing business and diversion of resources and management time; • the inability to generate revenues from acquired businesses sufficient to offset acquisition costs; • the inability of management to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; • the risks of entering markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience; • the difficulty in enhancing our customer support resources to adequately service our existing customers and acquired customers; and • the impairment of relationships with suppliers, employees or unions as a result of changes in management of the acquired company. Any future acquisitions of access lines will likely be subject to prior approvals from the Federal Communications Commission, the Iowa Utilities Board, the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission and other applicable state and federal agencies. We may not be able to obtain such approvals, in which case the acquisition could be delayed or not consummated. We may not be able to raise the capital to grow through acquisitions. We may need additional capital to continue growing through acquisitions. Such additional capital may be in the form of additional debt, which would increase our leverage or equity, which would increase our dividends paid. We may not be able to raise sufficient additional capital at all or on terms that we consider acceptable. We may not be successful in efficiently managing the growth of our business. Our business plan will, if successfully implemented, result in growth of our operations, which may place a significant strain on our management, financial and other resources. To achieve and sustain growth we must, among other things, monitor operations, control costs, maintain regulatory compliance, maintain effective quality controls and maintain adequate internal management, technical, provisioning, information, billing, customer service and accounting systems. We may not be able to successfully integrate, obtain and use the employee, management, operational and financial resources necessary to manage a developing and expanding business in an evolving, regulated and increasingly competitive industry. Our relationships with other telecommunications companies are material to our operations and their financial difficulties may affect our business. We originate and terminate calls for long distance carriers and other interexchange carriers over our network and for that service we receive payments called access charges. Some of the carriers that pay us these access charges are our largest customers in terms of revenues. Several such carriers have declared bankruptcy in recent years. Our inability to collect access charges from these bankrupt or financially distressed carriers has had a negative effect on our financial results and cash flows, as would any subsequent bankruptcies or disruptions in the businesses of these or other interexchange carriers. Our ability to collect past due amounts of access billings from carriers is hampered by federal and state regulations governing business relationships of these bankrupt or financially distressed carriers. We use many vendors and suppliers that derive significant amounts of business from customers in the telecommunications business. Associated with the difficulties facing many service providers, some of these vendors and suppliers recently have experienced substantial financial difficulties, in some cases leading to bankruptcies and liquidations. Any disruptions experienced by these vendors and suppliers as a result of their own financial difficulties may affect their ability to deliver products or services to us on a timely basis or at all, which could have an adverse affect on our business. 36 Table of Contents We face risks associated with our reliance on third party telecommunications service providers. We currently rely on a combination of interexchange carriers to provide long distance service and local exchange carriers to provide service in the communities served by our CLEC. These third party service providers could cancel or not renew our current agreements or require significant price increases to continue providing services. Any increase in costs from these carriers or an inability to obtain service from these carriers could have an adverse impact on our business. We face risks associated with our reliance on our information and billing systems. We currently rely on a combination of internal systems and licenses with third party vendors for our information and billing systems. These systems are vital to our growth and our ability to monitor and control costs, bill customers, process orders, and provide customer service. If our information and billing systems fail or do not perform as expected, our ability to collect revenues, provide adequate customer service and accurately track our expenses and revenues would be impaired, with potentially materially adverse effects on our business and operations. In addition, if our third party vendors cancel or do not renew our license agreements, we could face disruption in our operations, as well as unforeseen expense for obtaining suitable replacement services from other vendors. Labor disputes with our employees could interrupt our operations and adversely affect our business. We have a collective bargaining agreement with the Communications Workers of America, or CWA, which covers 171 of our employees and expires in May 2012. We also have a collective bargaining agreement with the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, or IBEW, which covers 22 of our employees and expires in June 2014. If we negotiate acceptable terms with the CWA or IBEW at the expiration of the current agreements, our operating costs could increase as a result of higher wages or benefits paid to union members, and if we fail to reach an agreement with the unions our operations could be disrupted. Also, we may experience labor disputes over recognition of types of work performed or additional organizing efforts. Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We depend on key members of our senior management team. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team, including Alan L. Wells, our President, CEO and Chairman. Competition for senior management in our industry is intense, and we may have difficulty retaining our current managers or attracting new managers in the event of termination or resignation. Risks Related to Our Regulatory Environment Our business is subject to extensive regulation that could change in a manner adverse to us. We operate in a heavily regulated industry, and most of our revenues come from providing services regulated by the Federal Communications Commission, or FCC, the Iowa Utilities Board, and the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission. Federal and state communications laws and regulations may be amended in the future, and other laws or regulations may be enacted which will affect our business. The FCC, Iowa Utilities Board and Minnesota Public Utilities Commission may add new rules, amend their rules or change the interpretation of their rules at any time. Laws and regulations applicable to us and our competitors may be, and have been, challenged in the courts, and could be changed at any time. We cannot predict future developments or changes to the regulatory environment, or the impact such developments or changes would have on us. 37 Table of Contents FCC, Iowa Utilities Board and Minnesota Public Utilities Commission decisions concerning telecommunications policy and judicial review of such decisions may adversely affect our business. Federal telecommunications policy continues to evolve through further proposed statutory amendments, changing and implementing new regulations, and judicial review. These continuing potential and actual changes make it difficult to predict what effect such changes will have on us, our operations and our competitors. For example, as discussed in more detail under Regulation-Federal Regulation, the FCC has recently been considering changes to intercarrier compensation applicable to local exchange carriers and wireless providers that could adversely affect the access revenues of our incumbent local exchange carrier and competitive local exchange carrier operations, and the manner in which we will be compensated for terminating calls originating on other carriers’ networks and will compensate other carriers for handling calls that originate on our network. The FCC is also examining its universal service policies, including policies with respect to both contribution and disbursement that could have an effect on the amount and timing of our receipt of universal service funds. Further, many FCC telecommunications decisions are subject to substantial judicial review and delay. These delays and related litigation create uncertainty over federal policies and rules, and may affect our business plans, investments and operations. The Iowa Utilities Board and Minnesota Public Utilities Commission establish state telecommunications policies, including in the area of discretionary deregulation, both on a service type and geographic basis, and the consequences thereof. Orders of the Iowa Utilities Board and Minnesota Public Utilities Commission are also subject to judicial review. New regulations and changes in existing regulations may force us to incur significant expenses. Our business may be adversely affected by laws and regulations that impose new or greater obligations related to assisting in law enforcement, bolstering homeland security, reducing environmental impacts or other aspects of our business. For example, existing provisions of the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act and FCC regulations implementing the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act require telecommunications carriers to ensure that their equipment, facilities, and services are able to facilitate authorized electronic surveillance. We cannot predict whether and when the FCC or other state or federal agencies might modify such regulations or any other rules, or what compliance with new rules might cost. Similarly, we cannot predict whether or when federal or state legislators or regulators might impose new security, environmental or other obligations on our business. Such new obligations include FCC outage reporting obligations, stayed by the FCC on December 20, 2004, but pending reconsideration that may, if enacted, require substantial compliance expenditures. Our incumbent local exchange carrier is subject to regulation that is not applicable to our competitors. Federal and state rules impose obligations and limitations on our incumbent local exchange carrier that are not imposed on some of our competitors. Federal obligations require us to, among other things, share facilities, allow unbundled access to our network and resale of our services purchased at wholesale rates, file tariffs for access charges, maintain certain types of accounts and file certain types of reports. Similarly, Iowa and Minnesota law impose, among other things, accounting and reporting requirements and service obligations on us that do not exist for our competitors. As our business becomes increasingly competitive, these regulatory disparities could impede our incumbent local exchange carrier businesses and our ability to compete in the marketplace, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Changes to existing regulations may reduce the revenue we receive from network access charges. Network access charges, which include charges that we assess carriers for originating, terminating or transporting services for their interchange calls on our local network (governed by tariffs), as well as charges for transit services and transport and termination services billed to wireless and landline carriers (governed by interconnection agreements) accounted for approximately 35% of our revenues in 2009. 38 Table of Contents Large long distance providers have advocated in the past, and continue to advocate, that access charges they are required to pay should be reduced and the revenues replaced, perhaps only in part, by raising the fees charged to business and residential customers or by receipts from a universal service fund. Large long-haul network providers have also argued and continue to argue that access charges do not apply to specific types of traffic. The combined or individual results of these long distance carrier efforts could reduce the amount of access charge revenue we receive. Access charge reform is a key element of the universal service and intercarrier compensation issues under review by state and federal regulators and legislators. We cannot predict whether or when action may be taken on any of these issues, or what effect any action may have on revenues and costs of our incumbent local exchange carrier and competitive local exchange carrier operations. To the extent that services that compete with ours are subject to different regulatory regimes, our revenues, particularly from network access charges, may be reduced. The emerging technology known as voice over Internet protocol can be used to carry user-to-user voice communications over dial-up or broadband service. The FCC has determined that a particular type of entirely Internet-based voice over Internet protocol service is an information service and exempt from such regulatory obligations, but that another, more widely-used, version of voice over Internet protocol service is an interstate service, and therefore, outside the jurisdiction of state telecommunications regulations. Certain aspects of the FCC’s determination have been challenged in judicial proceedings. The FCC is currently considering the regulatory status of a variety of voice over Internet protocol service configurations in the context of a comprehensive proceeding launched in February 2004 as well as several more application and issue-specific proceedings. These proceedings concern, among other things, what, if any, intercarrier compensation must be paid by providers of such service and what, if any, universal service contributions such providers must make. Expanded use of voice over Internet protocol technology could reduce the access revenues received by local exchange carriers like us. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings or the effect of FCC or judicial decisions on any of our incumbent local exchange carrier or competitive local exchange carrier businesses, or on our Internet operations. Because we are subject to extensive laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, we may face significant liabilities or compliance costs in the future. Our operations and properties are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, natural resources and worker health and safety, including laws and regulations governing and creating liability relating to the management, storage and disposal of hazardous materials, asbestos, petroleum products and other regulated materials. As a result, we face several risks, including but not limited to the following: • Under certain environmental laws, we could be held liable, jointly and severally and without regard to fault, for the costs of investigating and remediating any actual or threatened environmental contamination at currently and formerly owned or operated properties, and those of our predecessors, and for contamination associated with disposal by us or our predecessors of hazardous materials at third party disposal sites. Hazardous materials may have been released at certain current or formerly owned properties as a result of historic operations. • The presence of contamination can adversely affect the value of our properties and our ability to sell any such affected property or to use it as collateral. • We could be held responsible for third party property damage claims, personal injury claims or natural resource damage claims relating to any such contamination. • The cost of complying with existing environmental requirements could be significant. • Adoption of new environmental laws or regulations or changes in existing laws or regulations or their interpretations could result in significant compliance costs or as yet unidentified environmental liabilities. 39 Table of Contents • Future acquisitions of businesses or properties subject to environmental requirements or affected by environmental contamination could require us to incur substantial costs relating to such matters. • In addition, environmental laws regulating wetlands, endangered species and other land use and natural resource issues may increase costs associated with future business or expansion opportunities, delay, alter or interfere with such plans, or otherwise adversely affect such plans. As a result of the above, we may face significant liabilities and compliance costs in the future. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 