Item 1A. Risk Factors. The semiconductor market is volatile and unpredictable, which limits our ability to forecast our business and could negatively impact our results of operations. The semiconductor industry experienced significant challenges in 2008 and 2009 as a result of the decline in the macroeconomic environment. As a provider to global semiconductor companies, we are subject to business cycles, the timing, length and volatility of which can be difficult to predict. The semiconductor industry historically has been cyclical due to sudden changes in customers' manufacturing capacity requirements and spending, which depend in part on capacity utilization, demand for customers' integrated circuit ("IC") products, inventory levels relative to demand, and access to affordable capital. These changes have affected the timing and amounts of customers' purchases and investments in our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, and continue to affect our sales, operating expenses and net income. If we are not able to make adjustments to our business quickly to appropriately align our cost structure with prevailing market conditions in periods of low demand, or if we do not have sufficient resources to meet customers' demands in periods of high demand, results could be negatively impacted and could differ greatly from our expectations. We generate a large percentage of our revenues from a limited number of customers, so decreased volumes at any one of these customers, or the loss of any one of these customers could significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations below expectations. Historically, we have had a small number of large customers for our core Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions and we expect this to continue in the near term. In the year ended December 31, 2009, three customers accounted for 47% of our revenues, with IBM representing 19%, Toshiba representing 17%, and Chartered representing 11%. In the year ended December 31, 2008, two customers accounted for 34% of our revenues, with Toshiba representing 18% and IBM representing 16%. We could lose a customer due to its decision not to engage us on future process nodes, its decision not to develop its own future process node, or as a result of industry consolidation. The loss of any of these customers or a decrease in the sales volumes of their products could significantly reduce our total revenue below expectations. In particular, such a loss could cause significant fluctuations in results of operations because our expenses are fixed in the short term and it takes us a long time to replace customers. If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt, or they significantly delay adoption of, our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, our revenues will suffer. If semiconductor designers and manufacturers do not continue to adopt our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, both as currently comprised and as we may offer them in the future, our revenues will decline. We may not be successful if we do not continue to enter into agreements with existing customers and new customers that cover a larger number of IC products and processes. If we do not develop new customer relationships with companies that are integrated device manufacturers ("IDMs"), fabless semiconductor companies, and foundries, as well as system manufacturers, the market acceptance of our solutions will 12 Table of Contents suffer. Factors that may limit adoption of our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions by semiconductor companies include: •our existing and potential customers' delay in their adoption of the next process technology; •IDMs of logic ICs discontinuing or significantly cutting back their investment in the development of new process technology as a result of a shift to a model of outsourcing a larger proportion, or all, of the mass production of their ICs; •our inability to keep pace with the rapidly evolving technologies and equipment used in the semiconductor design and manufacturing processes; •our customers' failure to achieve satisfactory yield improvements using our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions; •fewer processes being developed at our customers and, therefore, a reduction in the potential impact our solutions can add across at any single customers; and •our inability to develop, market, or sell effective solutions that are outside of our traditional logic focus of manufacturing process solutions. Our business is subject to risks associated with the ongoing financial crisis and weak global economy. The severe tightening of the credit markets, turmoil in the financial markets, and weakened global economy which began in 2008 deteriorated in early 2009, and may not improve or could even worsen in 2010, contributed to slowdowns in the semiconductor industry, which impacts our ability to make sales. The markets for semiconductors depend largely on consumer spending. Economic uncertainty exacerbates negative trends in consumer spending and may cause some of our customers to delay or refrain altogether from entering into new engagements, licensing new or additional software products, or renewing maintenance and support for existing licensed software at historical levels. This will negatively affect our revenues. Difficulties in obtaining capital and deteriorating market conditions may also lead to the inability of some customers to obtain affordable financing for other purchases, which could tie up funds otherwise budgeted for purchases of our solutions and technologies. Customers with liquidity issues may also lead to additional bad debt expense. Further, these conditions and uncertainty about future economic conditions make it challenging for us to forecast our operating results, make business decisions, and identify the risks that may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to timely and appropriately adapt to changes resulting from the difficult macroeconomic environment, our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be significantly negatively affected. Revenues from our gainshare performance incentives is dependent on factors outside of our control, including the volume of ICs that our customers are able to sell to their customers. Our gainshare performance incentives fee component ties the profits of our customers to our own. Through this component, revenues for a particular product is largely determined by the volume of that product that our customer is able to sell to its customers, which is outside of our control. Decreased demand for semiconductor products decreases the volume of products our customers are able to sell, which directly decreases our gainshare performance incentives revenues. Important factors that could cause demand for semiconductor products to negatively fluctuate include: •changes in business and economic conditions, including the current downturn in the semiconductor industry and the overall economy; and •decreases in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market. 13 Table of Contents Also, our customers may unilaterally decide to implement changes to their manufacturing processes during the period that is covered by gainshare performance incentives, which could negatively affect yield results. Since we currently work on a small number of large projects, any product that does not achieve commercial viability or a significant increase in yield, or sustain significant volume manufacturing during the time we receive gainshare performance incentives, revenues from such customers could significantly reduce our revenue and results of operations below expectations. In addition, if we work with two directly competitive products, volume in one may offset volume, and thus any of our related gainshare performance incentives, in the other product. We may not be able to effectively implement our restructuring plans, and our restructuring plans may not result in the expected benefits on our planned schedule, or at all, which could negatively impact our future results of operations. During the year ended December 31, 2008, we have implemented restructuring plans in an effort to align our cost structure with expected revenue. We may not be able to successfully complete and realize the expected benefits of our restructuring plans, such as improvements in operating margins and cash flows, in the restructuring periods contemplated or at all. The restructuring plans may involve higher costs or a longer timetable than we currently anticipate, mainly due to the timing and execution of some plans and programs subject to local labor law requirements, and consultation with appropriate work councils. Our inability to realize these benefits may result in an inefficient business structure that could negatively impact our results of operations. We also expect our restructuring plans to cause us to incur substantial costs related to severance and other employee-related costs. Our restructuring plans may also subject us to litigation risks and expenses. In addition, our restructuring plans may have other consequences, such as attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a negative impact on employee morale, and our competitors may seek to gain a competitive advantage over us. The restructuring plans could also cause our remaining employees to be less productive, which in turn may negatively affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. If we do not effectively manage, support, and safeguard our worldwide information systems, and integrate recent and planned growth, our business strategy may fail. We have experienced in the past, and may experience in the future, interruptions in our information systems on which our global operations depend. Further, we may face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems or IP, which we may be unable to prevent. We could be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects until after it is too late to prevent it and the damage it may cause. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could negatively affect our competitive position, the value of our investment in product or research and development, and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data and/or system reliability. In any such event, our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses, including reputational harm. Further, intentional hacking of, interference with physical damage to, failure of, or digital damage (such as significant viruses or worms) to, our information systems could disrupt and delay time-sensitive services or computing operations that we perform for our customers, which could negatively impact our business results and reputation. In addition, we must frequently expand our internal information system to meet increasing demand in storage, computing and communication. Our internal information system is expensive to expand and must be highly secure due to the sensitive nature of our customers' information that we transmit. Building and managing the support necessary for our growth places significant demands on our management and resources. These demands may divert these resources from the continued growth of our business and implementation of our business strategy. Further, we must adequately train our new personnel, especially our client service and technical support personnel, to effectively and accurately, 14 Table of Contents respond to and support our customers. If we fail to do this, it could lead to dissatisfaction among our customers, which could slow our growth. It typically takes us a long time to sell our unique solutions to new customers and into new markets, and that can result in uncertainty and delays in generating revenues. Our gainshare performance incentives business model is unique and our Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions are often unfamiliar to new customers. This results in a lengthier sales cycle compared to some of our competitors and requires a significant amount of our senior management's time and effort. Furthermore, we need to target those individuals within a customer's organization who have overall responsibility for the profitability of an IC. These individuals tend to be senior management or executive officers. We may face difficulty identifying and establishing contact with such individuals. Even after initial acceptance, due to the complexity of structuring the gainshare performance incentives component, the negotiation and documentation processes can be lengthy. It can take nine months or more to reach a signed contract with a customer. Unexpected delays in our sales cycle could cause our revenues to fall short of expectations. By way of example, one of the industries that we have recently targeted that we believe would greatly benefit from our yield management system and FDC technology is the rapidly growing solar panel industry. Our efforts to leverage our products in this industry may not be successful. Further, ongoing negotiations and evaluation projects with photovoltaic manufacturers may not result in significant revenues for us if we are unable to close new engagements in these markets on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner, or at all, or if we are unable to successfully deliver our products and services to such markets. Our stock price may be volatile, and our common stock could decline in value, increasing potential dilution to our stockholders, or we may be delisted from the NASDAQ Global Market. Our stock price has fluctuated widely during the last few years, from a low closing price of $0.97 per share during March 2009 to a high closing price of $19.36 per share during April 2006. This significant reduction in our stock price negatively impacts our ability to raise equity capital in the public markets and increases the cost to us, as measured by dilution to our existing shareholders, of equity financing. In addition, the reduced stock price also increases the cost to us, in terms of dilution, of using our equity for employee compensation or for acquisitions of other businesses. Additionally, in order for our common stock to continue to be quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market ("NASDAQ"), we must satisfy various listing maintenance standards established by NASDAQ, including, among other things, the general requirement that our stock price consistently trades at or above $1.00 per share and that the total market value of our common stock exceed $50,000,000. We have had in the past, and may have again in the future, periods when our stock does not trade at, or the market value of our common stock has been below, the levels required by NASDAQ rules. If we were to be delisted from the NASDAQ and move to an alternative market, which may be less efficient and less broad-based, we may have difficulty accessing capital markets for additional funding, and the ability of our stockholders to sell any of our common stock at all would be severely, if not completely, limited, which could cause our stock price to decline further. Delisting could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by employees, the loss of institutional investor interest, and fewer business development opportunities. Also, significant volatility in the stock price could be followed by a securities class action lawsuit, which could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management's attention and resources. If we fail to protect our intellectual property ("IP") rights, customers or potential competitors may be able to use our technologies to develop their own solutions which could weaken our competitive position, reduce our revenue, or increase our costs. Our success depends largely on the proprietary nature of our technologies. We currently rely primarily on contractual, patent, copyright, trademark, and trade secret protection. Our pending patent applications 15 Table of Contents may not result in issued patents, and even if issued, they may not be sufficiently broad to protect our proprietary technologies. Litigation may be necessary from time to time to enforce our IP rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. As a result of any such litigation, we could lose our proprietary rights and incur substantial unexpected operating costs. Litigation could also divert our resources, including our managerial and engineering resources. Our solution implementations may take longer than we anticipate, which could cause us to lose customers and may result in adjustments to our operating results. Our solution implementations require a team of engineers to collaborate with our customers to address complex yield loss issues by using our software and other technologies. We must estimate the amount of time needed to complete an existing solution implementation in order to estimate when the engineers will be able to commence a new solution implementation. In addition, our accounting for solution implementation contracts, which generate fixed fees, sometimes require adjustments to profit and loss based on revised estimates during the performance of the contract. These adjustments may have a material effect on our results of operations in the period in which they are made. The estimates giving rise to these risks, which are inherent in fixed-price contracts, include the forecasting of costs and schedules, and contract revenues related to contract performance. If we are not able to attract, retain, motivate, and strategically locate talented employees, including some key executives, our business may suffer. Our success and competitiveness depend on our ability to attract, retain, motivate, and strategically locate in our offices around the globe talented employees, including some of our key executives. Achieving this objective may be difficult due to many factors, including fluctuations in global economic and industry conditions, changes in our management or leadership, the hiring practices at our competitors or customers, cost reduction activities, and the effectiveness of our compensation programs, including equity-based programs. Further, we have had, and expect to continue to have, difficulty in obtaining visas permitting entry for some of our employees that are foreign nationals into the United States, and delays in obtaining visas permitting entry into other key countries, for several of our key personnel, which disrupts our ability to strategically locate our personnel. If we lose the services of any of our key executives or a significant number of our engineers, it could disrupt our ability to implement our business strategy. If we do not successfully attract, retain, and motivate key employees, including key executives, we may be unable to realize our business objectives and our operating results may suffer. Competition in the market for yield improvement solutions and increased integration between IC design and manufacturing may intensify in the future, which could impede our ability to grow or execute our strategy. Competition in our market may intensify in the future, which could slow our ability to grow or execute our strategy and could lead to increased pricing pressure. Our current and potential customers may choose to develop their own solutions internally, particularly if we are slow in deploying our solutions or improving them to meet market needs. Many of these companies have the financial and technical capability to develop their own solutions. Also, competitors may be able to operate with a lower cost structure than our engineering organization, which would give any such competitor's products a competitive advantage over our solutions. There may be other providers of commercial solutions for systematic IC yield and performance enhancement of which we are not aware. We currently face indirect competition from the internal groups at IC companies and some direct competition from providers of yield management or prediction software such as KLA-Tencor, MKS Instruments, Inc. ("MKS"), and Synopsys, Inc., and process control software, such as Applied Materials, Inc., BISTel Inc., and Trancom Technology, Inc., and MKS. Further, ARM Ltd. and Virage Logic Corporation provide standard cells in the physical IP space and Tela provides software for standard cell synthesis, each of which could compete with our pdBRIX solution. In 16 Table of Contents addition, electronic design automation suppliers provide alternative DFM solutions that may compete for the same budgetary funds. Some providers of yield management software or inspection equipment may seek to broaden their product offerings and compete with us. In addition, we believe that the demand for solutions that address the need for better integration between the silicon design and manufacturing processes may encourage direct competitors to enter into our market. For example, large integrated organizations, such as IDMs, electronic design automation software providers, IC design service companies or semiconductor equipment vendors, may decide to spin-off a business unit that competes with us. Other potential competitors include fabrication facilities that may decide to offer solutions competitive with ours as part of their value proposition to their customers. If these potential competitors change the pricing environment or are able to attract industry partners or customers faster than we can, we may not be able to grow and execute our strategy as quickly or at all. In addition, customer preferences may shift away from our solutions as a result of the increase in competition. We face operational and financial risks associated with international operations that could negatively impact our revenue. We have in the past expanded our non-U.S. operations and may in the future continue such expansion by establishing overseas subsidiaries, offices, or contractor relationships in locations, if and when, deemed appropriate by our management. Thus, the success of our business is subject to risks inherent in doing business internationally, including in particular: •some of our key engineers and other personnel are foreign nationals and they may have difficulty gaining access to the United States and other countries in which our customers or our offices may be located and it may be difficult for us to recruit and retain qualified technical and managerial employees in foreign offices; •greater difficulty in collecting account receivables resulting in longer collection periods; •language and other cultural differences may inhibit our sales and marketing efforts and create internal communication problems among our U.S. and foreign research and development teams, increasing the difficulty of managing multiple, remote locations performing various development, quality assurance, and yield ramp analysis projects; •compliance with, inconsistencies among, and unexpected changes in, a wide variety of foreign laws and regulatory environments with which we are not familiar, including, among other issues, with respect to employees, protection of our IP, and a wide variety of operational regulations and trade and export controls under domestic, foreign, and international law; •currency risk due to the fact that expenses for our international offices are denominated in the local currency, including the Euro, while virtually all of our revenues is denominated in U.S. dollars; •quarantine, private travel limitation, or business disruption in regions affecting our operations, stemming from actual, imminent or perceived outbreak of human pandemic or contagious disease; •in the event a larger portion of our revenues becomes denominated in foreign currencies, we would be subject to a potentially significant exchange rate risk; and •economic or political instability, including but not limited to armed conflict, terrorism, interference with information or communication of networks or systems, and the resulting disruption to economic activity and business operations. 17 Table of Contents Revenues generated from customers in Asia accounted for 66% of our revenues in the year ended December 31, 2009 and 55% for the year ended December 31, 2008. Thus, in Asia, in particular, we face the following additional risks: •a downturn in Asian economies which could limit our ability to retain existing customers and attract new ones in Asia; and •if the U.S. dollar increases in value relative to local currencies, including for example, the Japanese Yen, the cost of our solutions will be more expensive to existing and potential local customers and therefore less competitive. In the Middle East, we use a number of professionals located in Ramallah, Palestine, who provide various software-related development, quality assurance, maintenance, and other technical support services for certain of our software products. The political uncertainty surrounding the region could disrupt these service providers and thus negatively affect the range of services we are able to provide or our cost for such services. Our earnings per share and other key operating results may be unusually high in a given quarter, thereby raising investors' expectations, and then unusually low in the next quarter, thereby disappointing investors, which could cause our stock price to drop. Historically, our quarterly operating results have fluctuated. Our future quarterly operating results will likely fluctuate from time to time and may not meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors in some future period. The price of our common stock declined significantly during 2008 and early 2009, and may continue to decline if we fail to meet expectations about our revenues or expenses. Measurement of our gainshare performance incentives requires data collection and is subject to customer agreement, which can result in uncertainty and cause quarterly results to fluctuate. We can only recognize revenue based on gainshare performance incentives once we have reached agreement with our customers on their level of yield performance improvements. Because measuring the amount of yield improvement is inherently complicated and dependent on our customers' internal information systems, there may be uncertainty as to some components of measurement. This could result in our recognition of less revenue than expected. In addition, any delay in measuring revenue attributable to our gainshare performance incentives could cause all of the associated revenue to be delayed until the next quarter. Since we currently have only a few large customers and we are relying on gainshare performance incentives as a significant component of our total revenues, any delay could significantly harm our quarterly results. Changes in the structure of our customer contracts, including the mix between fixed and variable revenue and the mix of elements, including perpetual and term-based licenses, can adversely affect the amount and timing of our total revenues. Our long-term success is largely dependent upon our ability to structure our future customer contracts to include a larger gainshare performance incentives component relative to the fixed fee component. We typically recognize the fixed fee component earlier than the gainshare performance incentives component so if we are successful in increasing the gainshare performance incentives component of our customer contracts, we will experience an adverse impact on our operating results in the short term as we reduce the fixed fee component. Due to acquisitions and expanded business strategies, the mix of elements in some of our contracts has changed recently and the relative importance of the software component in some of our contracts has increased. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in the expected recognition of revenue associated with generally accepted accounting principles regarding the timing of revenue recognition in multi-element software arrangements, including the effect of acceptance criteria as a result of the change in our contracts. If we fail to meet contractual acceptance criteria on time or at all, 18 Table of Contents the total revenues we receive under a contract could be delayed or decline. Further, if we mix term-based licenses with perpetual licenses, it will impact the timing of the recognition of revenue from that customer. In addition, by increasing the gainshare performance incentives or the software component, we may increase the variability or timing of recognition of our revenue, and therefore increase the risk that our total future revenues will be lower than expected and fluctuate significantly from period to period. We have a history of losses, we may incur losses in the future and we may be unable to reach, or thereafter maintain, profitability. We have experienced losses in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and in the past. We may not achieve, and thereafter maintain, profitability if our revenue increases more slowly than we expect or if it decreases. In addition, virtually all of our operating expenses are fixed in the short term, so any shortfall in anticipated revenue in a given period could significantly reduce our operating results below expectations. Our accumulated deficit was $130.1 million as of December 31, 2009. We expect to continue to incur significant expenses in connection with: •funding for research and development; •expansion of our solution implementation teams; •expansion of our sales and marketing efforts; and •additional non-cash charges relating to amortization and stock-based compensation. As a result, if we do not significantly increase revenues to reach or maintain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis, our stock price could decline. We may be subject to additional impairment of our long-lived assets. We intend to pursue additional strategic relationships, which are necessary to maximize our growth, but could substantially divert management attention and resources. We have sought in the past, and may seek in the future, to establish and maintain strategic relationships with industry leaders at each stage of the IC design and manufacturing processes. This requires us to expend significant resources and to commit a significant amount of management's time and attention, although any such relationship may not be successful. If we are unable to enter into strategic relationships with these companies, we will not be as effective at modeling existing technologies or at keeping ahead of the technology curve as new technologies are introduced. In the past, the absence of an established working relationship with key companies in the industry has meant that we have had to exclude the effect of their component parts from our modeling analysis, which reduces the overall effectiveness of our analysis and limits our ability to improve yield. Inadvertent disclosure of our customers' confidential information could result in costly litigation and cause us to lose existing and potential customers. Our customers consider their product yield information and other confidential information, which we must gather in the course of our engagement with the customer, to be extremely competitively sensitive. If we inadvertently disclosed or were required to disclose this information, we would likely lose existing and potential customers and could be subject to costly litigation. In addition, to avoid potential disclosure of confidential information to competitors, some of our customers may, in the future, ask us not to work with key competitive products, which could limit our revenue opportunities. 19 Table of Contents Our technologies could infringe the IP rights of others, causing costly litigation and the loss of significant rights. Significant litigation regarding intellectual property rights exists in the semiconductor industry. It is possible that a third party may claim that our technologies infringe their intellectual property rights or misappropriate their trade secrets. Any claim, even if without merit, could be time consuming to defend, result in costly litigation, or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. A successful claim of infringement against us in connection with the use of our technologies could adversely affect our business. Defects in our proprietary technologies, hardware and software tools, and the cost of support to remedy any such defects could decrease our revenue and our competitive market share. If the software, hardware, or proprietary technologies we provide to a customer contain defects that increase our customer's cost of goods sold and time-to-market or damage our customer's property, these defects could significantly decrease the market acceptance of our solutions. Further, the cost of support resources required to remedy any defects in our technologies, hardware, or software tools could exceed our expectations. Any actual or perceived defects with our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies may also hinder our ability to attract or retain industry partners or customers, leading to a decrease in our revenue. These defects are frequently found during the period following introduction of new software, hardware, or proprietary technologies or enhancements to existing software, hardware, or proprietary technologies. Our software, hardware, and proprietary technologies may contain errors not discovered until after customer implementation of the silicon design and manufacturing process recommended by us. If our software, hardware, or proprietary technologies contain errors or defects, it could require us to expend significant resources to remedy these problems, which could reduce margins and result in the diversion of technical and other resources from our other development efforts. Failing to maintain the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting could impede our ability to provide accurate and timely financial information, which could cause our investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and could cause our stock price to decline. We identified a material weakness in connection with the evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("Section 404") as of December 31, 2009. In the future, our management may identify additional deficiencies regarding the design and operating effectiveness of our system of internal control. We may not be able to remediate such deficiencies in time to meet the continuing reporting deadlines imposed by Section 404 and the costs of remediation may be substantial. A material weakness in our internal controls could result in a material misstatement not being prevented or detected, which could result in the need for a restatement of past periods. Moreover, our independent registered public accounting firm may continue to deem that we did not maintain, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting if we are unable to remediate deficiencies on a timely basis. If we are unable at any time to assert that we maintain effective internal controls, our investors could lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports and our stock price could decline. We may not be able to raise necessary funds to support our growth or execute our strategy. Unanticipated efforts to support more rapid expansion, develop or enhance Design-to-Silicon-Yield solutions, respond to competitive pressures or acquire complementary businesses or technologies could impact our future capital requirements and the adequacy of our available funds. In such event, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements. We may not be able to raise necessary funds on terms favorable to us, or at all. 20 Table of Contents Recent or potential acquisitions may adversely affect our business by diverting management's attention, increasing our expenses or by being more difficult to integrate than expected. Our success in realizing the strategic benefits, the timing of this realization, and growth opportunities to be gained from acquiring technology or companies and incorporating into PDF the operations of previously acquired businesses, including Fabbrix, Inc. ("Fabbrix"), a U.S. company, acquired in May 2007, and Triant Holdings, Inc. and Triant Technologies (2005) Inc. ("Triant"), both Canadian companies acquired in October 2008, depend upon our ability to successfully identify the technology or company, negotiate favorable terms, close the related transaction in a timely manner, and integrate those businesses or assets. We may be unable to identify suitable acquisition or investment candidates at reasonable prices or on reasonable terms, or consummate future acquisitions or investments at all or in a timely manner, each of which could slow our growth strategy. Further, the integration of acquired businesses or assets is a complex, costly and time-consuming process. The difficulties of combining our existing operations associated with acquired businesses or assets include: •consolidating research and development operations; •integrating acquired products and business technology into our existing product lines; •coordinating effective sales and marketing functions; •preserving research and development, marketing, customer and other important relationships; and •minimizing the diversion of management's attention from ongoing business concerns. Changes in effective tax rates could negatively affect our operating results. We conduct our business globally and, as a result, are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign countries. Our future tax rates could be affected by numerous factors, including changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws and changes in accounting policies. Our filings are subject to reviews or audit by the Internal Revenue Service and state, local and foreign taxing authorities. We cannot be sure that any final determination in an audit would not be materially different than the treatment reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If additional taxes are assessed as a result of an audit, there could be a significant negative effect on our income tax provision and our operating results in the period or periods for which that determination is made. The uncertainty in the credit markets might impact the value of certain auction-rate securities we have and we might have to record impairment charges in the future. Credit concerns in the capital markets have significantly reduced our ability to liquidate auction-rate securities that we classify as non-current investment securities on our balance sheet. The liquidity of the securities has been reduced by the uncertainty in the credit markets and the exposure of these securities to the financial condition of bond insurance companies. All auction-rate securities we hold have been failing to sell at auction since February 2008 due to an insufficient number of bidders. We reviewed the value of these securities for impairment as of December 31, 2009, concluded that these securities were temporarily impaired, and have recorded an unrealized loss of $282,000 as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. In future periods, the estimated fair value of our auction-rate securities could decline further based on market conditions, which could result in additional impairment and could result in the need to classify such impairment as other than temporary, this resulting in a charge to operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 21 Table of Contents 