Risk Factors," that may cause our or our industry's actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. For example, assumptions that could cause actual results to vary materially from future results include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully develop and market our products to customers; our ability to generate customer demand for our products in our target markets; the development of our target markets and market opportunities; our ability to produce and deliver suitable products at competitive cost; market pricing for our products and for competing products; the extent of increasing competition; technological developments in our target markets and the development of alternate, competing technologies in them; and sales of shares by existing shareholders. Although we believe that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, we cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. Unless we are required to do so under U.S. federal securities laws or other applicable laws, we do not intend to update or revise any forward-looking statements. 1 ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We are an integrated natural gas operator in The Peoples’ Republic of China (“China” or the “PRC”), primarily involved in the distribution of compressed natural gas (“CNG”) through our variable interest entity (“VIE”)-owned CNG fueling stations. As of December 31, 2009, we operated 24 CNG fueling stations in Shaanxi province and 12 CNG fueling stations in Henan province. Our VIE own our CNG fueling stations while we lease the land upon which our VIE-owned CNG fueling stations operate. For the year ended December 31, 2009, we sold CNG of 164,343,895 cubic meters through our VIE-owned fueling stations, compared to 149,412,144 cubic meters for the year ended December 31, 2008. We also transport, distribute and sell piped natural gas to residential and commercial customers in the Xi’an area, including Lantian County, and the districts of Lintong and Baqiao, in Shaanxi province through a high pressure pipeline network of approximately 120 kilometers. We operate four main business lines: · Distribution and sale of CNG through our VIE-owned CNG fueling stations for hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles (36 stations as of December 31, 2009); · Installation, distribution and sale of piped natural gas to residential and commercial customers through our VIE-owned pipelines. We distributed and sold piped natural gas to approximately 108,423 residential customers as of December 31, 2009; · Distribution and sale of gasoline through our VIE-owned CNG fueling stations for gasoline and hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles (eight of our CNG fueling stations sold gasoline as of December 31, 2009); and · Conversion of gasoline-fueled vehicles to hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles at our auto conversion sites. We buy all of the natural gas that we sell and distribute to our customers. We do not mine or produce any of our own natural gas and have no plans to do so during the next 12 months. We currently sell our natural gas in two forms: (i) CNG and (ii) piped natural gas. On October 24, 2006, our VIE, Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. ("XXNGC"), formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Shaanxi Jingbian Liquefied Natural Gas Co., Ltd. ("SJLNG"), for the purpose of constructing a liquefied natural gas ("LNG") facility to be located in Jingbian, Shaanxi province. We planned to invest approximately $50 million to construct this facility, funded through the sale of senior notes to Abax and our September 2009 equity financing, as well as cash flows from operations. The LNG plant is under construction and is expected to be completed by the second quarter of 2010. Once completed, the plant is expected to have a LNG processing capacity of 500,000 cubic meters per day, or approximately 150 million cubic meters on an annual basis. 2 We had total revenues of $81,066,118, $67,720,659 and $35,392,053 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We had net income of $18,830,787, $15,190,368 and $9,116,070 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We had total assets of $197,614,516, $118,262,291 and 53,289,998 as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Our Corporate History and Structure We were incorporated in the state of Delaware on March 31, 1999, as Bullet Environmental Systems, Inc. On May 25, 2000 we changed our name to Liquidpure Corp. and on February 14, 2002 we changed our name to Coventure International, Inc. ("Coventure"). On December 6, 2005, Coventure issued an aggregate of 4 million shares to all of the registered shareholders of XXNGC, and entered into exclusive arrangements with XXNGC and these shareholders that give us the ability to substantially influence XXNGC's daily operations and financial affairs, appoint its senior executives and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval. On December 19, 2005, we changed our name to China Natural Gas, Inc. On February 22, 2006, we formed Shaanxi Xilan Natural Gas Equipment Co., Ltd., ("SXNGE") as a wholly foreign owned enterprise (“WFOE”). We then, through SXNGE entered into exclusive arrangements with XXNGC and these shareholders that give us the ability to substantially influence XXNGC's daily operations and financial affairs, appoint its senior executives and approve all matters requiring shareholder approval. We memorialized these arrangements on August 17, 2007. As a result, we consolidate the financial results of XXNGC as a variable interest entity pursuant to FASB accounting standard. On October 24, 2006, XXNGC formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Shaanxi Jingbian Liquefied Natural Gas Co., Ltd. (“SJLNG”), a limited liability company organized under the laws of the PRC to administer the production and sales of LNG. On December 1, 2006, XXNGC formed a wholly-owned subsidiary, Xi'an Xilan Auto Body Shop Co., Ltd. ("XXABC"), which converts gasoline-fueled vehicles to hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles. On July 3, 2008, XXNGC formed a wholly owned subsidiary, Henan Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. ("HXNGC"), for the purpose of improving the efficiency of our natural gas fueling station operations, pipeline construction, engineering design, construction and technical advisory work services in Henan province. HXNGC also operates our CNG fueling stations in Henan province. On October 2, 2008, XXNGC acquired a 100% equity interest in Lingbao Yuxi Natural Gas Co., Ltd. ("LBNGC"), which possesses the right to operate CNG fueling stations and pipelines in the city of Lingbao, from the shareholders of LBNGC, Zhihe Zhang, who held a 90% ownership interest in Henan, and Lingjun Hu, who held a 10% ownership interest in Henan. On October 27, 2009, XXNGC formed Henan CNPC Kunlun Xilan Compressed Natural Gas Co., Ltd. (“JV”) as a joint venture with China National Petroleum Corporation Kunlun Natural Gas Co., Ltd. (“CNPC Kunlun”) in Henan province, PRC. The JV was established to build and operate CNG compressor stations and fueling stations, sell CNG, provide vehicle conversion services from gasoline-fueled vehicles to hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles and technical advisory work services in Henan, PRC. CNPC Kunlun will hold 51% ownership of the JV, and XXNGC will hold 49% ownership. 3 On October 27, 2009, CHNG formed Xilan Energy Co., Ltd. (“XEC”) as a wholly owned limited liability company in Hong Kong. XEC was established for the purpose of importing liquid natural gas (“LNG”) into PRC. On December 17, 2009, XXNGC formed Hubei Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. (“HBXNGC”) as a wholly owned limited liability company in Hubei province, PRC. HBXNGC was established to construct harbor LNG fueling stations and ships in Hubei, PRC. The following diagram illustrates our corporate and share ownership structure: Our Variable Interest Entity Agreements The following is a summary of the agreements we have with our variable interest entity, XXNGC: Consulting Service Agreement, dated August 17, 2007. Under this agreement entered into between SXNGE and XXNGC, SXNGE provides XXNGC exclusive consulting services with respect to XXNGC's general business operation, human resources and research and development. In return, XXNGC pays a quarterly service fee to SXNGE, which is equal to XXNGC’s revenue for such quarter. The term of this agreement is indefinite unless SXNGE notifies XXNGC of its intention to terminate this agreement. XXNGC may not terminate this agreement during its term. This agreement is retroactive to March 8, 2006. Operating Agreement, dated August 17, 2007. Under this agreement entered into between SXNGE, on the one hand, and XXNGC and certain shareholders of XXNGC, on the other hand, SXNGE agrees to act as a guarantor for XXNGC in the contracts, agreements or transactions in connection with XXNGC’s operation between XXNGC and any other third party, to provide full guarantee for the performance of such contracts. XXNGC agrees, as a counter-guarantee, to pledge all of its assets, including accounts receivable to SXNGE. The XXNGC shareholders party to this operating agreement agree to, among other things, appoint as XXNGC's director, individuals recommended by XXNGC and appoint SXNGE's senior officers as XXNGC's general manager, chief financial officer and other senior officers. The term of this agreement is indefinite unless SXNGE notifies XXNGC of its intention to terminate this agreement with 30 days prior notice. XXNGC may not terminate this agreement during its term. This agreement is retroactive to March 8, 2006. 4 Equity Pledge Agreement, dated August 17, 2007. Under this agreement entered into between SXNGE, on the one hand, and XXNGC and certain shareholders of XXNGC, on the other hand, to secure the payment obligations of XXNGC under the Consulting Service Agreement described above, the XXNGC shareholders party to this equity pledge agreement have pledged to SXNGE their entire equity ownership interests in XXNGC. Upon the occurrence of certain events of default specified in this agreement, SXNGE may exercise its rights and foreclose on the pledged equity interest. Under this agreement, the pledgors may not transfer the pledged equity interest without SXNGE's prior written consent. This agreement will also be binding upon successors of the pledgor and transferees of the pledged equity interest. The term of the pledge is two years after the obligations under the Consulting Service Agreement have been fulfilled. This agreement is retroactive to March 8, 2006. Option Agreement, dated August 17, 2007. Under this option agreement entered into between SXNGE, on the one hand, and XXNGC and certain shareholders of XXNGC, on the other hand, the XXNGC shareholders party to this option agreement irrevocably granted to SXNGE, or any third party designated by SXNGE, the right to acquire, in whole or in part, the respective equity interests in XXNGC of these XXNGC shareholders. The option agreement can be terminated by SXNGE by notifying XXNGC of its intention to terminate this agreement with 30 days prior notice. The option agreement is retroactive to March 8, 2006. Addendum to the Option Agreement, dated August 8, 2008. Under this addendum to the option agreement entered into between SXNGE, on the one hand, and XXNGC and certain shareholders of XXNGC, on the other hand, the XXNGC shareholders (the "Transferors") irrevocably granted to SXNGE an option to purchase the XXNGC shareholders' additional equity share in XXNGC (the "Additional Equity Interest") in connection with an increase in XXNGC's registered capital since the execution of the option agreement at $1.00 or the lowest price permissible under the applicable laws at the time that SXNGE exercises the option to purchase the Additional Equity Interest. The option agreement can be terminated by SXNGE by notifying XXNGC of its intention to terminate this agreement with 30 days prior notice. This addendum is retroactive to June 30, 2008. Proxy Agreement dated August 17, 2007. Under this agreement entered into between SXNGE, on the one hand, and XXNGC and certain shareholders of XXNGC, on the other hand, the XXNGC shareholders irrevocably granted to SXNGE the right to exercise their shareholder voting rights, including attendance at and voting of their shares at shareholders meetings in accordance with the applicable laws and XXNGC’s articles of associations. This agreement is retroactive to March 8, 2006. Our Products, Services and Customers CNG and Gasoline Fueling Stations As of December 31, 2009, our VIE operated 24 CNG fueling stations in the Shaanxi province and 12 CNG fueling stations in Henan province. Through these VIE-owned fueling stations, CNG is sold to taxis, buses and private cars that operate with CNG technology. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we purchased natural gas at an average cost of RMB1.11/cubic meter and sold each cubic meter for RMB2.33 net of value added taxes in Shaanxi province and we purchased natural gas at an average cost of RMB1.19/cubic meter and sold each cubic meter for RMB2.83 net of value added taxes in Henan province. 5 We continue to expand our VIE-owned CNG fueling station base by constructing new stations as well as acquiring existing stations. We can obtain approvals and construct a CNG fueling station in Shaanxi province in approximately 60 days for a cost of approximately US$1,300,000 to US$1,500,000. We are evaluating additional sites for CNG fueling stations in Shaanxi, Henan and in other regions. Our VIE also own three natural gas compressor stations. Two are located in Xi’an: Hongqing station, acquired in July 2005, near our pipeline; and Changsheng station, acquired in September 2008. The third station is located in Xianyang city and was acquired in January 2008. A compressor station compresses natural gas and allows trucks to transport CNG to fueling stations. We currently have a daily processing capacity of 250,000 cubic meters of CNG. We began to distribute and sell gasoline during the fourth quarter of 2007 in an effort to support our sales of CNG by attracting more natural gas/gasoline hybrid car owners through providing a one-stop refueling option for such customers. Our gasoline facilities were either installed by us at our existing CNG stations or acquired through our acquisition of CNG fueling stations that have both CNG and gasoline fueling capability. As of December 31, 2009, we distributed and sold gasoline at eight of our VIE-owned CNG fueling stations for gasoline and hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles in Xi'an. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we purchased gasoline at an average cost of RMB4.13/liter and sold each liter at an average price of RMB4.39/liter net of value added taxes in Xi'an. Our Pipeline Distribution System Our VIE own and operate a high pressure pipeline network of approximately 120 kilometers in the Xi’an area. The network connects to a high pressure government pipeline network operated by Shaanxi Natural Gas Company, which supplies natural gas directly from a gas field in the northern region of the province. Our high pressure pipeline then feeds into city-gate "let-down" stations at Hongqing and Lantian County, where the pressure is reduced and natural gas is transported through a network of low-pressure distribution pipes to supply our residential and commercial customers in Lantian County and the Lintong and Baqiao Districts. The supply also feeds our compressor stations at Hongqing and Xianyan where CNG is collected by tankers to supply our CNG fueling stations. Each of our pipeline customers is physically connected to our pipeline network through Company-installed and maintained piping and natural gas usage gauges. We generate revenues both from the sale of natural gas to these customers and the installation and maintenance of this equipment. We believe we are currently the sole authorized provider of natural gas to residential customers in our service areas and the only privately owned company in Shaanxi province to own and operate this type of high pressure pipeline. 6 Our Automobile Conversion Sites We began our automobile conversion business during the second quarter of 2007. Our automobile conversion sites convert gasoline-fueled vehicles to hybrid (natural gas/gasoline) powered vehicles. As of December 31, 2009, we had four auto conversion sites, all in the Xi'an area. Our CNG Market As of December 31, 2009, there were 3,639 buses and 10,646 taxes powered by CNG in Xi’an, which accounts for approximately 97% and 91% of the total market, respectively. Each bus uses an average of approximately 100 cubic meters of CNG per day and each taxi uses an average of approximately 30 cubic meters of CNG per day (Source: PRC Ministry of Science and Technology). The PRC government estimates in its Eleventh Five Year Plan (2006-2010) that current total demand for CNG as a vehicular fuel in the Xi’an area will reach approximately 1,070,000 cubic meters per day by 2010. Compared to gasoline and diesel, we believe natural gas as vehicular fuel is cheaper, cleaner and safer. The PRC government’s Clean Energy Policy encourages the use of CNG as a vehicular fuel. We estimate that the average CNG station in Xi’an pumped approximately 11,000 cubic meters of CNG per day in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, there were 73 CNG fueling stations in Xi’an and we estimate that approximately 803,000 cubic meters of CNG was pumped per day during 2009, a figure below estimated total demand. As a result, we believe that there is unmet demand for CNG as vehicular fuel in the Xi’an area. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately 2,100 buses and 8,900 taxes powered by CNG in Zhengzhou, which account for approximately 50% and 84% of the market shares, respectively. (Source: Zhengzhou Evenings). We estimate each bus uses an average of approximately 100 cubic meters of CNG per day and each taxi uses an average of approximately 30 cubic meters of CNG per day. We estimate that the average CNG station in Henan pumped approximately 11,000 cubic meters of CNG per day in 2009. As of December 31, 2009, there were 42 CNG fueling stations in Henan and we estimate that approximately 462,000 cubic meters of CNG was pumped per day during 2009, a figure below estimated total demand. As a result, we believe that there is unmet demand for CNG as vehicular fuel in the Henan area. While there are many competitors in the distribution and sale of CNG in China, we believe we are well positioned in the market through our cooperation with local natural gas suppliers and our experience in Shaanxi and Henan. Our Pipeline Network Customers As of December 31, 2009, we had 108,423 customers, including residential and commercial customers. We continue to expand our customer base in Xi’an's newly developed business and residential areas including Baqiao, Hongqing and Xihang as well as Lingbao in Henan Province. Our commercial customers, including the Xiwei Aluminum Company and the Hungtian Company, use natural gas as a raw material for their production process. We are not dependent upon any single customer or group of customers for a material portion of our natural gas sales or revenues. Our pipeline customers purchase natural gas by prepaid cards that can be inserted into the connection equipment to initiate gas flow. 7 We entered into agreements with the Xi’an International Port Administrative Committee (the “Port Committee”) and the town of Tangyu, China, in April 2008 and October 2008, respectively, to provide natural gas to local residents and businesses. The international port project is estimated to involve the development of approximately 13.5 square miles of business district and the investment of up to $30 million over the next several years, based on the Port Committee’s planning schedule. The Tangyu project involves supplying natural gas to potentially 50,000 residential and commercial users at a tourist site undergoing development and expansion. Our agreement with the Port Committee is currently being challenged by the Xi'an Municipal Administration Commission for violating an exclusive agreement between the municipal government and Qin Hua Gas Company, one of our major competitors in our pipeline natural gas business. We disagree with the Xi'an Municipal Administration Commission's assessment and are currently in negotiations with it to resolve its assessment. Our Liquefied Natural Gas (“LNG”) Project In September 2007, we began the construction of an LNG processing and distribution plant in Jingbian, Shaanxi province (the "LNG Project"). We estimate that the LNG Project will cost approximately $50 million, funded through the sale of senior notes to Abax and our September 2009 equity financing, as well as cash flows from operations. We believe we have obtained all the required permits and approvals to build the LNG plant and expect construction to be completed by the second quarter of 2010. During 2009, we made significant progress towards completing the LNG Project and spent approximately $31 million in constructing our LNG facility, acquiring technology licenses, prepaying for equipment purchases and acquiring land use rights. We believe that adding LNG to our product offerings will expand our geographic sales footprint and improve our revenues and profitability as well as diversify our revenue and profit structure. Both CNG and LNG are natural gas compressed into canisters for convenient transportation, usually by tank trucks, to locations of distribution or consumption. Typically, CNG is compressed at 200 kilograms per cubic centimeter and LNG is compressed at up to 625 times atmospheric pressure per normal cubic meter and must be transported at sub-zero temperatures. The cost of compressing and processing LNG is higher than CNG, but LNG can be transported in larger volumes and over longer distances per tanker and the per unit transportation costs are therefore lower than CNG. We believe we are well positioned in the LNG business because the NDRC has stopped approving LNG projects based on onshore gas fields that involve the processing of domestic natural gas supplies since August 2007. Suppliers We purchase our natural gas mainly from four vendors, namely, Shaanxi Natural Gas Co. Ltd., Petrochina Chang Qing Oil Field Branch, Jiyuan City Yuhai Gas Co., Ltd. and Qinshui Lanyan Coal Bed Methane Co., Ltd. Our supply contract with our largest supplier, Shaanxi Natural Gas Co. Ltd., is renewed on an annual basis. We have supply agreements with Petrochina Chang Qing Oil Field Branch, Jiyuan City Yuhai Gas Co., Ltd. and Qinshui Lanyan CoalBed Methane Co., Ltd. with no minimum purchase requirements. Our procurement price in Henan has increased from RMB 1.00/cubic meter to RMB 1.30/cubic meter starting June 2009. We do not expect the price to change materially in 2010. 8 On October 19, 2006, we received a letter from PetroChina Company Limited pursuant to which PetroChina agreed in principle to supply up to 150 million cubic meters of natural gas annually to our LNG Project subsidiary subject to the negotiation of a final agreement once our LNG plant is near completion. We do not expect any difficulty in continuing to renew our supply contracts during the next 12 months. Intellectual Property We have applied for a service mark on the “Xilan” name, which is used in connection with all our products and services. XXNGC is currently preparing to apply for the “CNG” trademark. XXNGC has also applied for the registration of its corporate name as a trademark under Application No. 5055703. This application has been published for opposition. If there are no successful oppositions once this opposition period expires on September 7, 2009, our corporate name will be registered as a trademark. Research and Development We incurred $83,708 expense in connection with the experiment of converting diesel / gasoline fueled ships to be able to run on natural gas. The funding for all research and development expenses is expected to come from operating cash flows. Governmental and Environmental Regulation To date, we have complied with, or are in the process of renewing, all registrations and requirements for the issuance and maintenance of all licenses required by the applicable governing authorities in China. These licenses include: · Xi’an Natural Gas Operations License, authorized by the Shaanxi Municipal Management Committee, effective from August 18, 2009 to August 17, 2010. · License to Supply, Install Equipment and Maintain Gas Fuel Lines issued by the local Gas Fuels for Heating Bureau, an agency of the Ministry of Construction and the Xi’an Natural Gas Management Bureau. (License number: XIRAN 136) · Safety and Inspection Regulation for Special Equipment Safety Inspection Standards for High Pressure Pipeline and Technical Safety Inspection Regulations from the Shaanxi Quality and Technology Inspection Bureau for compressor stations and pressure storage tank system. (Approval letter reference: 2004SHAANGUOCHUHAN033) · Annual Safety Inspection of Lightning Conductor Equipment approved by the Shaanxi Meteorology Bureau. (Certificate number 0005274) The City-gate and Compressor Stations are approved by the local office of the Ministry of Construction. 9 · Business license to operate Shaanxi Xilan Natural Gas Equipment Co., Ltd. effective from February 22, 2006 to February 21, 2021. · Business license to operate Xi’an Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. effective as of January 8, 2000. · Business license to operate Xi’an Xilan Auto Body Shop Co., Ltd. effective as of December 1, 2006. · Business license to operate Shaanxi Jingbian Liquefied Natural Gas Co. Ltd. effective from October 24, 2006 to October 23, 2036. · Business license to operate Henan Xilan Natural Gas Co. Ltd. effective from July 3, 2008 to June 25, 2018. · Business license to operate Lingbao Yuxi Natural Gas Co., Ltd. effective from June 13, 2008 to June 12, 2012. · Business license to operate Hubei Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. effective from December 17, 2009 to December 16, 2010. · Business license to operate Xilan Energy Co., Ltd. effective from October 27, 2009 to October 26, 2010. · Business license to operate Henan CNPC Kunlun Xilan Compressed Natural Gas Co., Ltd. effective from October 27, 2009 to October 22, 2029. Fuel service station standards are subject to regulation by the Ministry of Construction, the General Administration of Quality Supervision and the Bureau of Inspection and Quarantine of the People's Republic of China. Upon satisfactory inspection of service stations, certificates will be issued. Various standards must be met for fueling stations, including the handling and storage of CNG, tanker handling and compressor operation. The Local Ministry of Construction and the Gas Field Operation Department of the Municipal Administration Committee regulate these standards. The Municipal Development and Reform Commission, which issues certificates for the handling of dangerous chemical agents, carries out inspections. Standards for the design and construction of fueling stations must conform to GB50156-2202 and technology standard BJJ84-2000. Employees As of December 31, 2009, we had 868 employees, including, 94 in management, 8 in sales, and 766 in finance, accounting, and operations. We have not experienced any industrial actions and we believe we have good relationships with our employees. We are not a party to any collective bargaining agreements. 10 Available Information Our website is http://www.naturalgaschina.com/. We provide free access to various reports that we file with, or furnish to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, or the SEC, through our website, as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been filed or furnished. These reports include, but are not limited to, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports. Information on our website does not constitute part of and is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or any other report we file or furnish with the SEC. You may also read and copy any document that we file at the public reference facilities of the SEC in Washington, D.C. You may call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms. Our SEC filings are also available to the public from the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS An investment in our common stock involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty. You should carefully consider the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this prospectus, including the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of our Company, before deciding to invest in our common stock. The risks described below are not the only ones facing our Company. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we presently consider immaterial may also adversely affect our Company. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations and the value of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Business and the PRC Natural Gas Industry We may be adversely affected by the slowdown of China’s economy caused in part by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets. We rely on demand for natural gas in China for our revenue growth, which is substantially affected by the growth of the industrial base, increase in residential and vehicle consumption and the overall economic growth of China. The growth of China’s economy experienced a slowdown in late 2007. We believe a number of factors contributed to this slowdown, including appreciation of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and the Euro, which has adversely affected China’s exports, and tightening macroeconomic measures and monetary policies adopted by the PRC government aimed at preventing overheating of China’s economy and controlling China’s high level of inflation. The slowdown was further exacerbated by the recent global crisis in the financial services and credit markets, which has resulted in extreme volatility and dislocation of the global capital markets. It is uncertain how long the global crisis in the financial services and credit markets will continue and the impact this will have on the global economy in general and the economy of China in particular. We are currently unable to estimate the impact the slowing of the PRC economy will have on our business as the impact of the decline in international trade is being offset in part through domestic stimulus spending, expanded bank lending, increases in the speed of regulatory approvals of new construction projects and other economic policies. We do not believe we have experienced reduced demand for natural gas to date. If the economic downturn continues, our business may be negatively affected by any decrease in demand for our natural gas products and services. Reduction in demand for natural gas would have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if customers of taxis come to rely more on mass transit rather than taxis, a decline in demand for taxis may result in a decline of CNG as a vehicle fuel which would adversely affect our revenue and ability to sustain and grow our operations. 11 We have benefited from the natural gas procurement and sale prices set by government authorities. Natural gas sales accounted for 76.8%, 82.3% and 79.9% of our revenue for the three years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. However, the prices at which we purchase our natural gas supplies and sell our natural gas products are strictly regulated by the PRC central government, including the National Development and Reform Commission (“NDRC”), and the local state price bureaus who have the discretion to set natural gas prices within the boundaries set by the PRC central government. Our results of operations for the periods reviewed have benefited from the natural gas procurement and sale prices set by government authorities. There is no assurance that the government authorities will continue to set natural gas procurement and sale prices at levels that will allow us to improve or even maintain our margins. Increased natural gas prices affect the cost to us of natural gas and will adversely impact our margins in cases where we are unable to pass on the increased costs to our customers. In addition, higher natural gas prices may adversely impact the adoption of CNG and LNG and have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our competitors and potential competitors may be larger than us and have greater financial and other resources than we do and those advantages could make it difficult for us to compete with them. We expect to face intense competition in the natural gas industry, including in both the CNG and LNG industries. Our current, and potential, competitors include companies that are part of much larger companies, including state-owned enterprises. These companies are likely to have greater resources than we do, including longer operating history, larger customer base, stronger customer relationships, greater brand or name recognition and greater financial, technical, marketing, relationship and other resources and may be able to use these greater resources to enter into the CNG and LNG industries and gain substantial market share. Competition could result in price reductions, fewer purchases, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. If we are unable to remain competitive, we may not be able to establish our LNG business, expand our CNG business into new provinces or even maintain our current share of the CNG market in China. Prices of natural gas in the PRC are subject to government regulation and can be subject to significant fluctuations. Although regulated by the PRC central government, natural gas prices in China can be subject to significant fluctuations. Natural gas prices may be increased by the government for policy or other reasons including in response to changing national or international market forces, such as changes in domestic and foreign supplies of natural gas, domestic storage levels, crude oil prices, the price difference between crude oil and natural gas, price and availability of alternative fuels, weather conditions, level of consumer demand, economic conditions, price of foreign natural gas imports, and domestic and foreign governmental regulations and political conditions. The volatility of natural gas prices could adversely impact the adoption of CNG vehicle fuel and our business. 12 Natural gas operations entail inherent safety and environmental risks that may result in substantial liability to us. Natural gas operations entail inherent risks, including equipment defects, malfunctions and failures, human error and natural disasters, which could result in uncontrollable flows of natural gas, fires, explosions, property damage, injury and death. For example, a competitor of ours in Xi'an providing natural gas to residences recently experienced an accident resulting in significant property damage, injury and death. CNG fuel tanks, if damaged or improperly maintained, may rupture and the contents of the tank may rapidly decompress and result in death or injury. Also, operation of LNG pumps requires special training and protective equipment because of the extreme low temperatures of LNG. LNG tanker trailers have also in the past been, and may in the future be, involved in accidents that result in explosions, causing loss of life, injury and property damage. Improper loading of LNG vehicles can result in venting of methane gas, leading to explosions. Inherent in our natural gas pipeline business are a variety of hazards and operational risks, such as leaks, ruptures and mechanical problems. The location of pipelines near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering places, could increase the level of damage resulting from these risks, including the loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental damage, impairment of our operations and substantial loss to us. The risks associated with our natural gas businesses may expose us to liability for personal injury, wrongful death, property damage, pollution and other environmental damage. We may incur substantial liability and cost if damages are not covered by insurance or are in excess of policy limits. We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers of natural gas, which may affect our ability to supply natural gas to our customers. With the exception of certain compressed and liquid natural gas supplies, we obtain our supplies of natural gas primarily from four suppliers. The ability to deliver our product is dependent on a sufficient supply of natural gas and if we are unable to obtain a sufficient natural gas supply, we may be prevented from making deliveries to our customers. While we have supply contracts, we do not control our suppliers, nor are we able to control the amount of time and effort suppliers put forth on our behalf. It is possible that our suppliers will not perform as expected and that they may breach or terminate their agreements with us. Our supply contract with our largest supplier Petrochina Chang Qing Oil Field Branch. It is possible that, after a review of our supply contract, they will choose to provide services to a competitor. Any failure to obtain supplies of natural gas could prevent us from delivering our product to our customers and could have a material adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Our growth depends in part on environmental regulations and programs mandating the use of cleaner burning fuels, and modification or repeal of these regulations may adversely impact our business. Our business depends in part on environmental regulations and programs in China that promote the use of cleaner burning fuels, including natural gas, for vehicles. In particular, China’s 11th Five-Year Plan (2006-2010) has made the development of natural gas engines for heavy-load trucks a national key development project. In order to meet the demand for natural gas, the PRC government has encouraged private companies to invest in and build the necessary transportation, distribution and sale infrastructure for natural gas. On February 24, 2005, China’s State Council issued an opinion encouraging and supporting private sector businesses to become involved in industries that were previously controlled by state-owned enterprises, including oil and natural gas distribution. In 2007, China's State Development and Reform Commission officially included CNG/gasoline hybrid vehicles in the country's "encouraged development" category. In addition, local governments, including those in Chongqing, Hangzhou, Nanjing, Lanzhou and Dongguan have enacted policies providing subsidies to taxis and buses which covert their gasoline vehicles to CNG/gasoline hybrid vehicles. Any delay, repeal or modification of these regulations or programs that encourage the use of natural gas for vehicles could have a detrimental effect on the PRC natural gas industry, which, in turn, could slow our growth and materially adversely affect our business. 13 The infrastructure to support coal, gasoline and diesel consumption is vastly more developed than the infrastructure for natural gas vehicle and industrial fuels. Coal, gasoline and diesel fueling stations and service infrastructure are widely available in China. For natural gas vehicle and industrial fuels to achieve more widespread use in China, they will require a promotional and educational effort and the development and supply of more natural gas vehicles and fueling stations. This will require significant continued effort by us as well as the government, and we may face resistance from oil companies, coal companies and gasoline station operators. Also, a prolonged economic recession and continued disruption in the capital markets may make it difficult or impossible to obtain financing to expand the natural gas vehicle and industrial fuel infrastructure and impair our ability to grow our business. There is no assurance natural gas will ever achieve the level of acceptance as a vehicle and industrial fuel necessary for us to expand our business significantly. The expansion of our business into LNG may not be as successful as our CNG business, or at all. Although a similar business to CNG, our expansion into the LNG business entails different technology and requires us to expand into new markets where permitting, environmental issues, lack of materials and lack of human resources, among other factors, could complicate our ability to operate our LNG processing facility and successfully compete in the LNG segment. In contrast to CNG, the compression and production costs of LNG are higher than CNG due to LNG's more complicated and technical process and we may be unable to complete and operate our LNG expansion successfully due to the advanced technology involved in its production and sale. In addition, the construction of the LNG processing facility could also create increased financial exposure through start-up delays, the need for unforeseen repairs and failure to ramp up to full capacity. If the new plant has higher than expected operating costs or is not able to produce the expected amounts of LNG, we may be forced to sell LNG at a price below processing costs and we may lose money. While we have received a letter from PetroChina Company Limited pursuant to which PetroChina agreed in principle to supply up to 150 million cubic meters of natural gas annually to our LNG Project subsidiary subject to the negotiation of a final agreement once our LNG plant is near completion, we have not entered into a final agreement. Additionally, if the quality of LNG produced at the facility does not meet customer specifications, we may be unable to compete with other LNG producers, which would harm our business. As our target market for our LNG expansion is outside Shaanxi and Henan, there is no assurance that we will be able to establish a strong customer base in our LNG target markets and we currently have not entered into any contracts with customers for the supply of LNG. While we currently also benefit from the NDRC's decision in August 2007 to cease approval of LNG projects based on onshore gas fields that involve the processing of domestic natural gas supplies, there is no assurance that the NDRC will continue such a moratorium and should the NDRC resume such approvals, any expansion of our LNG business may be adversely affected. 14 We are in the process of constructing only one LNG plant and any prolonged disruption of the construction or operation of the LNG plant may adversely affect our business development plans. We are in the process of constructing only one LNG production facility. If, for any reason, the LNG production facility should fail to be completed in a timely fashion or does not operate according to expectation, it may become difficult for us to obtain substitute LNG to sell and distribute without interruption and near our current or target markets at competitive prices. We do not have any performance guarantees, insurance or indemnification from our contractors, sub-contractors or technology licensors in connection with the construction of our LNG production facility, and we may be required to make additional investments to complete the project. In addition, if our LNG production facility or our natural gas suppliers are damaged by severe weather, earthquake or other natural disaster, or otherwise experiences prolonged downtime, our LNG production will be restricted. If we are unable to supply enough of our own LNG or purchase it from third parties to meet customer demand, our ability to expand our business into LNG sales may be impeded and may hinder our growth and our business may be adversely affected. We failed to comply with PRC law in our recent contribution of capital to SJLNG and will be subject to possible fines, penalties and administrative action until the capital contribution is registered in compliance with PRC law. In August 2008, the board of directors of XXNGC passed a resolution to increase the registered capital of SJLNG to RMB118,305,000 through the form of intangible asset contributions. In September 2008, SJLNG obtained its updated business license reflecting the increased registered capital. Pursuant to XXNGC's board resolution, China Natural Gas, Inc. transferred its right to use the two licenses it obtained relating to the design of our LNG facility directly to SJLNG as SJLNG's registered capital. However, China Natural Gas, Inc. is not a shareholder of SJLNG and is therefore not permitted under PRC law to contribute capital to SJLNG. In addition, PRC law does not allow the contribution of capital in the form of an intangible asset, such as these two licenses, where the assets are not owned by the contributor. We are restructuring the capital contribution as a cash contribution and revising our LNG licenses so that the licensee is SJLNG and believe this capital contribution and license structure will comply with PRC law. However, until we have completed this process, the relevant regulatory authorities may impose fines or penalties, or require us to cease the operations of SJLNG, until such time as these defects are remedied. Any such fines, penalties or stop in operations could have a material and adverse effect on our LNG business in terms of our future growth, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on suppliers of LNG technology. Due to the advanced technology involved in the production, loading and transport of LNG, we have relied on suppliers of LNG technology for the construction of our LNG plant, and we anticipate we will rely on such suppliers for technology and know-how in connection with the operation and maintenance of our LNG plant. There are a limited number of suppliers of LNG technology and we may be unable to obtain alternate suppliers at acceptable prices, in a timely manner or at all. If we should lose the assistance of our LNG technology licensors for any reason, we may be unable to complete or operate our planned LNG plant, which could have a material and adverse effect on our future growth, financial condition and results of operations. 15 If there are advances in other alternative vehicle and industrial fuels or technologies, or if there are improvements in gasoline, diesel or hybrid engines, demand for natural gas vehicle and industrial fuels may decline and our business may suffer. Technological advances in the production, delivery and use of alternative fuels that are, or are perceived to be, cleaner, more cost-effective or more readily available than CNG or LNG have the potential to slow adoption of natural gas vehicles and industrial facilities. In addition, advances in gasoline and diesel engine technology, especially hybrids, may offer a cleaner, more cost-effective option and make vehicle customers less likely to convert their vehicles to natural gas. Technological advances related to ethanol or biodiesel, which are increasingly used as an additive to, or substitute for, gasoline and diesel fuel, may slow the need to diversify fuels and affect the growth of the natural gas vehicle market. In addition, hydrogen and other alternative fuels in experimental or developmental stages may eventually offer a cleaner, more cost-effective alternative to gasoline and diesel than natural gas. Advances in technology that slow the growth of or conversion to natural gas vehicles or industrial facilities or which otherwise reduce demand for natural gas as a vehicle or industrial fuel will have an adverse effect on our business. We may need to raise capital to fund our operations and our failure to obtain funding when needed may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our business development plans. We may require additional cash resources in order to carry out our business development plans, including constructing and acquiring CNG and LNG fueling and compression stations. If the cost of any such construction or acquisition that our management deems appropriate is higher than our cash resources, we will need to seek additional cash resources, and may seek to sell additional equity or debt securities or borrow under credit facilities. The sale or issuance of additional equity securities could result in dilution to our shareholders. The incurrence of indebtedness would result in increased debt service obligations and could result in operating and financing covenants that would restrict our operations. If we are unable to raise additional capital on terms favorable to us or at all, we may have to delay, scale back, or discontinue our planned facility construction or acquisitions, or obtain funds by entering into agreements on terms not favorable to us. We may also not be able to secure or repay debt incurred to fund facility construction or acquisition, especially if the construction or acquisition does not result in the benefits we anticipated. As a result, our future growth, financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. We have limited insurance coverage and may incur losses due to business interruptions resulting from natural and man-made disasters, and our insurance may not be adequate to cover liabilities resulting from accidents or injuries that may occur. The insurance industry in China is still at an early stage of development. Insurance companies in China offer limited commercial insurance products. We carry auto insurance on our vehicles and maintain workers compensation insurance for our fueling station workers. We do not carry any product liability insurance or property insurance on our office buildings, fueling stations, other industrial sites or other property. We believe that current facilities are adequate for our current and immediately foreseeable operating needs. We do not have any policies regarding investments in real estate, securities or other forms of property. We have determined that balancing the risks of disruption or liability from our business, or the loss or damage to our property, including our facilities and equipment, the cost of insuring for these risks on the one hand, and the difficulties associated with acquiring such insurance on commercially reasonable terms on the other hand, makes it impractical for us to have such insurance. 16 Should any natural catastrophes such as earthquakes, floods, or any acts of terrorism occur in Shaanxi or Henan provinces, where our primary operations are located and most of our employees are based, or elsewhere, we might suffer not only significant property damage, but also loss of revenues due to interruptions in our business operations. In addition, the provision of our services depends on the continuing operation of our natural gas pipelines and fueling stations, which are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural catastrophes such as earthquakes and acts of terrorism. The occurrence of a significant event for which we are not fully insured or indemnified, and/or the failure of a party to meet its underwriting or indemnification obligations, could materially and adversely affect our operations and financial condition. Moreover, no assurance can be given that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance in the future at rates we consider reasonable. Qinan Ji, our chairman and chief executive officer, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception, and a loss of his services in the future could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may also cause the market price of our common stock to go down. Qinan Ji, our chairman and chief executive officer, has played an important role in the growth and development of our business since its inception. To date, we have relied heavily on Mr. Ji’s expertise in, and familiarity with, our business operations, his relationships within the natural gas industry, including with our suppliers, and his reputation and experience. In addition, Mr. Ji continues to be primarily responsible for formulating our overall business strategies and spearheading the growth of our operations. If Mr. Ji were unable or unwilling to continue in his present positions, we may not be able to easily replace him and may incur additional expenses to identify and train his successor. In addition, if Mr. Ji were to join a competitor or form a competing business, it could severely disrupt our business and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Although Mr. Ji is subject to certain non-competition restrictions during and after termination of his employment with us, we cannot assure you that such non-competition restrictions will be effective or enforceable under PRC law. Moreover, even if the departure of Mr. Ji from our company would not have any actual impact on our operations and the growth of our business, it could create the perception among investors or the marketplace that his departure could severely damage our business and operations and could negatively affect investor confidence in us, which may cause the market price of our common stock to go down. We do not maintain key man insurance for Mr. Ji. 17 Failure to attract and retain qualified personnel and experienced senior management could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our business and competitiveness. Our continuing success is dependent, to a large extent, on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including well-trained technicians for the operation and maintenance of our compressing stations, fueling stations, pipeline and delivery trucks and experienced senior management. Due to the intense market competition for highly skilled workers and experienced senior management and our geographical location, we have faced difficulties locating experienced and skilled personnel in certain areas, such as engineers, station and truck operators, administration, marketing, product development, sales, finance and accounting. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract or retain the key personnel that we will need to achieve our business objectives and if one or more of our key personnel are unable or unwilling to continue to work for us, we may not be able to replace them within a reasonable period of time or at all. Our business may be severely disrupted, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected, and we may incur additional expenses in recruiting and training additional personnel. Although our employees and senior management members are subject to certain non-competition restrictions during and after termination of their employment, we cannot assure you that such non-competition restrictions will be effective or enforceable under PRC law. If any of our key personnel joins a competitor or forms a competing business, our business may be severely disrupted. We have no key man insurance with respect to our key personnel that would provide insurance coverage payable to us for loss of their employment due to death or otherwise. The expansion of our business into new provinces may not be as successful as in Shaanxi and Henan provinces, or at all. We plan to expand our business into additional provinces throughout China. However, our experience in operating CNG fueling stations in Shaanxi and Henan may not be applicable in other parts of China. We cannot assure you that we will be able to leverage such experience to expand into other parts of China. When we enter new markets, we may face intense competition from natural gas operators with established experience or presence in the geographical areas in which we plan to expand and from other natural gas operators with similar expansion targets. In addition, expansion or acquisition may require a significant amount of capital investment, divert the resources and time of our management and, if we fail to integrate the new businesses effectively, affect our operating efficiency. Demand for natural gas and government regulation may also be different in other provinces. The distribution of natural gas and operations of fueling stations are highly regulated industries requiring registration for the issuance of licenses required by various governing authorities in China. Additionally, various standards must be met for fueling stations, including handling and storage of natural gas, tanker handling and compressor operation. While we have benefited from quicker permitting and licensing processes and stable access to the supply of natural gas in Shaanxi, there is no assurance that we will have similar success in other provinces. Our failure to manage any of our planned expansion or acquisitions may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations and we may not have the same degree of success in other provinces that we have had so far to date, or at all Growth in our CNG business may depend on the increased adoption of CNG technology by buses and private cars and/or the expansion of taxi fleets. Our revenue from CNG comes primarily from the sale of CNG as a fuel for vehicles and we expect this trend will continue. As many of the taxis in our core CNG markets have adopted CNG technology, growth in our CNG business may depend on the increased adoption of CNG technology by buses and private cars. If buses and private cars do not increasingly adopt CNG technology, growth in our CNG business may be adversely affected. To expand our business, we must develop new customers. Whether we will be able to expand our customer base will depend on a number of factors, including the level of acceptance and availability of natural gas vehicles, the level of acceptance of natural gas as a vehicular and industrial fuel, the growth in our target markets of natural gas infrastructure that supports CNG and LNG sales and our ability to supply CNG and LNG at competitive prices. The recent and rapid decline in oil, diesel and gasoline prices may result in decreased interest in alternative fuels like CNG and LNG. If our potential customers are unable to access credit to purchase natural gas vehicles it may make it difficult or impossible for them to invest in natural gas vehicles and the conversion of industrial facilities to natural gas, which would impair our ability to grow our business. 18 If the prices of CNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline and diesel, potential fleet customers will have less incentive to purchase natural gas vehicles or convert their fleets to natural gas, which would decrease demand for CNG and limit our growth, including our expansion into LNG . Natural gas vehicles cost more than comparable gasoline or diesel powered vehicles because converting a vehicle to use natural gas adds to its base cost. If the prices of CNG do not remain sufficiently below the prices of gasoline or diesel, fleet operators may be unable to recover the additional costs of acquiring or converting to natural gas vehicles in a timely manner, and they may choose not to use natural gas vehicles. Recent and extreme volatility in oil and gasoline prices demonstrate that it is difficult to predict future transportation fuel costs. The decline in the price of oil, diesel fuel and gasoline has reduced the economic advantages that our existing or potential customers may realize by using less expensive CNG fuel as an alternative to gasoline or diesel. The reduced prices for gasoline and diesel fuel and continuing uncertainty about fuel prices, combined with higher costs for natural gas vehicles, may cause potential customers to delay or reject converting their fleets to run on natural gas which may limit our growth and cause our business to suffer. Our acquisition and investment in other lines of business may be unsuccessful. We intend to selectively pursue strategic acquisition and investment opportunities which complement or enhance our current businesses with new product lines or customers at the appropriate time. However, we may encounter strong competition during the acquisition or investment process and we may fail to select or value targets appropriately, which may result in our experiencing difficulty in completing such acquisitions or investments at reasonable cost or at all. Even if an acquisition or investment is successful, we may have to allocate additional capital and human resources to implement the integration of the new line of business. There is no assurance that such integration will be completed within a reasonable period of time or at all or that it will generate the expected economic benefits. If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, our business could be harmed. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of trademark laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions, when appropriate. Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Enforcement of intellectual property rights can lead to costly litigation and counterclaims. There is a risk that the outcome of such potential litigation will not be in our favor. Such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention as well as expend other resources which could otherwise have been devoted to our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation will impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects and reputation. In addition, historically, implementation of PRC intellectual property-related laws has been lacking, primarily because of ambiguities in the PRC laws and difficulties in enforcement. Accordingly, intellectual property rights and confidentiality protections in China may not be as effective as in the United States or other countries, which increases the risk that we may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property. Moreover, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights. Future litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of our management’s attention and resources, and could disrupt our business, as well as have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given the relative unpredictability of China’s legal system and potential difficulties enforcing a court judgment in China, there is no guarantee that we would be able to halt the unauthorized use of our intellectual property through litigation. 19 We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which may force us to incur substantial legal expenses and, if determined adversely against us, may materially disrupt our business. We cannot assure you that our intellectual property does not or will not infringe upon trademarks, valid copyrights or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. We may become subject to legal proceedings and claims from time to time relating to the intellectual property of others in the ordinary course of our business. If we are found to have violated the intellectual property rights of others, we may be enjoined from using such intellectual property, and we may incur licensing fees or be forced to develop alternatives. In addition, we may incur substantial expenses, and may be forced to divert management and other resources from our business operations, to defend against these third-party infringement claims, regardless of their merit. Successful infringement or licensing claims against us may result in substantial monetary liabilities or may materially disrupt the conduct of our business by restricting or prohibiting our use of the intellectual property in question. In order to comply with PRC laws limiting foreign ownership of Chinese companies, we conduct our natural gas business through Xi'an Xilan Natural Gas Co., Ltd. by means of contractual arrangements which may not be as effective as direct ownership or may be deemed in violation of PRC restrictions on foreign investment in our industry. The government of the PRC restricts foreign investment in natural gas businesses in China. Accordingly, we operate our business in China through our variable interest entity, XXNGC. XXNGC holds the licenses, approvals and assets necessary to operate our natural gas business in China. We have no equity ownership interest in XXNGC and rely on contractual arrangements with XXNGC and its shareholders that allow us to substantially control and operate XXNGC. These contractual arrangements may not be as effective in providing control over XXNGC as direct ownership would be. For example, XXNGC could fail to take actions required for our business despite its contractual obligation to do so. If XXNGC fails to perform under its agreements with us, we may have to incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements and may have to rely on legal remedies under the law of the PRC, which may not be effective. In addition, we cannot assure you that XXNGC’s shareholders would always act in our best interests. Although we believe we comply with current regulations of the PRC, we cannot assure you that the PRC government would agree that our structure or operating arrangements comply with the PRC’s licensing, registration or other regulatory requirements with existing policies or with requirements or policies that may be adopted in the future. If the PRC government determines that our structure or operating arrangements do not comply with applicable law, it could revoke our business and operating licenses, require us to discontinue or restrict our operations, restrict our right to collect revenues, require us to restructure our operations, impose additional conditions or requirements with which we may not be able to comply, impose restrictions on our business operations or on our customers, or take other regulatory or enforcement actions against us that could be harmful to our business. In addition, the equity pledge in the Equity Pledge Agreement between SXNGE and XXNGC and XXNGC's shareholders has not been registered and may be deemed to be unenforceable under PRC law. 20 Other than the proxy agreement between SXNGE and XXNGC and XXNGC's chairman and shareholders, which does not contain a choice of law or jurisdictional clause, our contractual arrangements with XXNGC are governed by PRC law and provide for the resolution of disputes through arbitration in the PRC. Accordingly, these contracts would be interpreted in accordance with PRC law and any disputes would be resolved in accordance with PRC legal procedures. If XXNGC or its shareholders fail to perform their respective obligations under these contractual arrangements, we may have to (i) incur substantial costs and resources to enforce such arrangements, and (ii) rely on legal remedies under PRC law, including seeking specific performance or injunctive relief, and claiming damages, which we cannot be sure would be effective. However, the legal environment in the PRC is not as developed as in the United States and uncertainties in the Chinese legal system could limit our ability to enforce these contractual arrangements. In the event that we are unable to enforce these contractual arrangements, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our contractual arrangements with XXNGC may be subject to scrutiny by the Chinese tax authorities and create a potential double layer of taxation for our revenue-generating services conducted by XXNGC. We could face material and adverse tax consequences if the Chinese tax authorities determine that our contractual arrangements with XXNGC were not priced at arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liability. If the Chinese tax authorities determine that these contracts were not entered into on an arm’s-length basis, they may adjust our income and expenses for Chinese tax purposes in the form of a transfer pricing adjustment. A transfer pricing adjustment could result in a reduction, for Chinese tax purposes, of deductions recorded by XXNGC, which could adversely affect us by increasing the tax liabilities of XXNGC. This increased tax liability could further result in late payment fees and other penalties to XXNGC for underpaid taxes. Any payments we make under these arrangements or adjustments in payments under these arrangements that we may decide to make in the future will be subject to the same risk. Prices for such services will be set prospectively and therefore we do not currently have a basis to believe that any of the payments to be made under the contracts will or will not be considered arm’s length for purposes of determining tax liability. The shareholders of XXNGC may have potential conflicts of interest with us, which may materially and adversely affect our business and financial condition. The shareholders of XXNGC are also beneficial holders of our common shares. They are also directors of both XXNGC and our company. Conflicts of interests between their dual roles as shareholders and directors of both XXNGC and our Company may arise. We cannot assure you that when conflicts of interest arise, any or all of these individuals will act in the best interests of our company or that conflicts of interests will be resolved in our favor. In addition, these individuals may breach or cause XXNGC to breach or refuse to renew the existing contractual arrangements that allow us to receive economic benefits from XXNGC. Currently, we do not have existing arrangements to address potential conflicts of interest between these individuals and our company. We rely on these individuals to abide by the laws of Delaware, which provides that directors owe a fiduciary duty to the Company, which requires them to act in good faith and in the best interests of the Company and not to use their positions for personal gain. If we cannot resolve any conflicts of interest or disputes between us and the shareholders of XXNGC, we would have to rely on legal proceedings, which could result in disruption of our business and substantial uncertainty as to the outcome of any such legal proceedings. 21 Certain shares in XXNGC, our variable interest entity, may be subject to adverse claims. Six individuals have previously claimed to own 1,200,000 shares of XXNGC's common stock, our main operating company and variable interest entity. They have claimed that they acquired these shares from other shareholders of XXNGC. Based on XXNGC's registered capital of RMB69,000,000 when it became a joint stock limited company in 2004, we believe the 1,200,000 shares represented 1.74% of XXNGC's outstanding common stock at the time the six individuals claim to have acquired the 1,200,000 shares of XXNGC. While we and XXNGC dispute their claim of ownership over the 1,200,000 shares, there is no assurance that XXNGC will prevail if these six individuals pursued their claim in legal proceedings. If these six individuals are found to have ownership over these shares, XXNGC's shareholding structure may change and our revenues from our contractual arrangements with XXNGC may be reduced. We may lose the ability to use and enjoy assets held by XXNGC that are important to the operation of our business if XXNGC goes bankrupt or becomes subject to a dissolution or liquidation proceeding. As part of our contractual arrangements with XXNGC, XXNGC holds certain of the assets that are important to the operation of our natural gas business. If XXNGC were to file for bankruptcy and all or part of its assets become subject to liens or rights of third-party creditors, we may be unable to continue some or all of our natural gas operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. If XXNGC undergoes a voluntary or involuntary liquidation proceeding, its shareholders or unrelated third-party creditors may claim rights to some or all of these assets, thereby hindering our ability to operate our natural gas business, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The transfer of state-owned assets in China is subject to approval by authorities in charge of state-owned assets administration and supervision and any failure by us or prior owners of our projects to comply with PRC laws and regulations in respect of the transfer of state-owned assets may result in the imposition of fines or forfeiture of our projects. As part of our business development, we have historically and may continue to acquire assets which were previously state-owned. In particular, XXNGC, our main operating company and variable interest entity, was previously a state-owned enterprise. XXNGC was acquired in 2004 by Xi'an Sunway Technology Industry Co., Ltd. ("Sunway"), a company in which our chairman and CEO, Mr. Ji, is a shareholder, and privatized. Mr. Ji, subsequently acquired XXNGC in October 2005. The acquisition of XXNGC by Sunway was approved by the Xi'an Municipal Administration Committee. However, the transfer price Sunway paid to acquire XXNGC was not evaluated by licensed appraisers. Under PRC law, the transfer of state-owned assets is subject to strict procedures and approvals, including the requirement that the transfer price be evaluated by licensed appraisers. If a previous transferor of state-owned assets failed to comply with relevant PRC law, the transfer of the state-owned assets may be reversed by the government or fines may be levied. In such circumstances, we will have a legal right to recover our investment in the assets, but we may not be able to recover from the relevant parties, which could result in a loss of revenues and a significant increase in operating costs. In addition, because XXNGC is our main operating company, any reversal of the transfer of XXNGC would have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and result of operations. 22 Acquisition of state-owned assets involves a public bidding process and failure to win the bids for our state-owned target companies or equity interests therein may limit our future growth and the control of our existing projects. Under PRC law, we are required to bid for the acquisition of state-owned assets that we wish to acquire. We typically negotiate the terms of the sale with the state-owned seller prior to the bidding process. However, we may not be successful in the bid and may fail to obtain the project as a result. To the extent we seek in the future to acquire state-owned assets, we will need to follow this process, and may not be successful in obtaining the target business. We may be required to vacate some of the land upon which our CNG fueling stations operate. We entered into long term lease agreements with third parties to lease certain land upon which our CNG fueling stations operate. Some of the entities from which we leased the land may not possess valid title to their properties. In addition, we have leased land from individual villagers or villager committees and applicable PRC law may be interpreted as prohibiting such land to be used for non-agricultural purposes or from being leased to parties other than local residents or their collective economic organizations. If there are disputes over the legal title to any of these leased properties or if the relevant authorities determine that our use of such properties violate PRC law and our leases are deemed to be invalid under PRC law, we may be required to vacate such sites and our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We may be subject to fines in connection with the construction of our CNG fueling stations due to failure to comply with proper procedural requirements. According to relevant PRC laws and regulations in Shaanxi and Henan provinces, contracts exceeding certain specified amounts relating to the construction of natural gas stations, such as construction contracts and equipment purchase agreements, must be obtained through bidding. We, however, did not comply with such bidding procedures in connection with the construction of any of our CNG fueling stations. While we believe this is accepted local practice, it is not in compliance with national and local legal requirements, and as a result, we may be subject to administrative fines and other penalties as a result of our failure to comply with these requirements. Our business operations are subject to extensive government regulation. Our business activities are extensively regulated by policies and other laws and regulations enacted by the PRC government. Natural gas operations require approvals, licenses or permits from the relevant central and local government authorities, some of which may take longer to obtain than others. In addition, from time to time, the relevant government authorities may impose new regulations on these activities. The success of our strategy to increase our natural gas business is contingent upon, among other things, receipt of all required licenses, permits and authorizations, including, but not limited to, construction, safety and environmental permits. While we believe we have, or are in the process of obtaining, all the required licenses, permits and authorizations material to our business, there is no assurance that changes or concessions required by our regulatory authorities could also involve significant costs and delay or prevent the completion of our growth or could result in the loss of an existing license, permit or authorization, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, to the extent we have failed to obtain any licenses, permits and authorizations, the relevant government authorities may subject us to fines, penalties or require us to cease operations. 23 Because we may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future Chinese subsidiaries for our cash requirements, restrictions under Chinese law on their ability to make such payments could materially and adversely affect our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could benefit our business, pay dividends to you, and otherwise fund and conduct our businesses. We have adopted a holding company structure, and our holding companies may rely on dividends and other distributions on equity paid by our current and future Chinese subsidiaries for their cash requirements, including the funds necessary to service any debt we may incur or financing we may need for operations other than through our Chinese subsidiaries. Chinese legal restrictions permit payments of dividends by our Chinese subsidiaries only out of their accumulated after-tax profits, if any, determined in accordance with PRC GAAP. Our Chinese subsidiaries are also required under Chinese laws and regulations to allocate at least 10% of their after-tax profits determined in accordance with PRC GAAP to statutory reserves until such reserves reach 50% of the company’s registered capital. Allocations to these statutory reserves and funds can only be used for specific purposes and are not transferable to us in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends. Any limitations on the ability of our Chinese subsidiaries to transfer funds to us could materially and adversely limit our ability to grow, make investments or acquisitions that could be beneficial to our business, pay dividends and otherwise fund and conduct our business. Our failure to fully comply with PRC labor laws exposes us to potential liability. Companies operating in China must comply with a variety of labor laws, including certain pension, housing and other welfare-oriented payment obligations. While we intend to make such payments beginning in July 2009, our failure to make previous payments may be in violation of applicable PRC labor laws and we cannot assure you that PRC governmental authorities will not impose penalties on us for failure to comply. In addition, in the event that any current or former employee files a complaint with the PRC government, we may be subject to making up the social insurance payment obligations as well as paying administrative fines. Risks Related to the People’s Republic of China Adverse changes in PRC economic and political policies could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could reduce the demand for natural gas and materially and adversely affect our business. Substantially all of our assets are located in China and substantially all of our revenue is derived from our operations in China. Accordingly, our results of operations and prospects are subject, to a significant extent, to the economic, political and legal developments in China. The PRC economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many aspects, including: 24 · the level of government involvement; · the level of development; · the growth rate; · the level and control of capital investment; · the control of foreign exchange; and · the allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has grown significantly in the past two decades, the growth has been uneven geographically, among various sectors of the economy and during different periods. We cannot assure you that the Chinese economy will continue to grow or to do so at the pace that has prevailed in recent years, or that if there is growth, such growth will be steady and uniform. In addition, if there is a slowdown, such slowdown could have a negative effect on our business. Any measures taken by the PRC government, even if they benefit the overall Chinese economy in the long-term, may have a negative effect on us. For example, our financial condition and results of operations may be materially and adversely affected by government control over capital investments. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy, a substantial portion of the productive assets in China is still owned by the PRC government. The continued control of these assets and other aspects of the national economy by the PRC government could materially and adversely affect our business. The PRC government also exercises significant control over Chinese economic growth through allocating resources, controlling payment of foreign currency denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Any adverse change in the economic conditions or government policies in China could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth and the level of investments and expenditures in China, which in turn could lead to a reduction in demand for natural gas and consequently have a material adverse effect on our businesses. The PRC legal system embodies uncertainties that could limit the legal protections available to you and us. Unlike common law systems, the PRC legal system is based on written statutes and decided legal cases have little precedential value. In 1979, the PRC government began to promulgate a comprehensive system of laws and regulations governing economic matters in general. The overall effect of legislation since then has been to significantly enhance the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investment in China. Our PRC operating subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations applicable to foreign investment in China. Our PRC affiliated entities are subject to laws and regulations governing the formation and conduct of domestic PRC companies. Relevant PRC laws, regulations and legal requirements may change frequently, and their interpretation and enforcement involve uncertainties. For example, we may have to resort to administrative and court proceedings to enforce the legal protection that we enjoy either by law or contract. However, since PRC administrative and court authorities have significant discretion in interpreting and implementing statutory and contractual terms, it may be more difficult to evaluate the outcome of administrative and court proceedings and the level of legal protection we enjoy than under more developed legal systems. Such uncertainties, including the inability to enforce our contracts and intellectual property rights, could materially and adversely affect our business and operations. Accordingly, we cannot predict the effect of future developments in the PRC legal system, particularly with respect to the natural gas sector, including the promulgation of new laws, changes to existing laws or the interpretation or enforcement thereof, or the preemption of local regulations by national laws. These uncertainties could limit the legal protections available to us and other foreign investors. 25 The PRC currency is not a freely convertible currency, which could limit our ability to obtain sufficient foreign currency to support our business operations in the future. The PRC currency, the “Renminbi” or “RMB,” is not a freely convertible currency. We rely on the PRC government’s foreign currency conversion policies, which may change at any time, in regard to our currency exchange needs. We receive substantially all of our revenues in Renminbi, which is not freely convertible into other foreign currencies. In China, the government has control over Renminbi reserves through, among other things, direct regulation of the conversion of Renminbi into other foreign currencies and restrictions on foreign imports. Although foreign currencies that are required for current account transactions can be bought freely at authorized PRC banks, the proper procedural requirements prescribed by PRC law must be met. At the same time, PRC companies are also required to sell their foreign exchange earnings to authorized PRC banks and the purchase of foreign currencies for capital account transactions still requires prior approval of the PRC government. This substantial regulation by the PRC government of foreign currency exchange may restrict our business operations and a change in any of these government policies could negatively impact our operations, which could result in a loss of profits. In order for our PRC subsidiaries to pay dividends to us, a conversion of Renminbi into U.S. dollars is required. Under current PRC law, the conversion of Renminbi into foreign currency for capital account transactions generally requires approval from SAFE and, in some cases, other government agencies. Government authorities may impose restrictions that could have a negative impact in the future on the conversion process and upon our ability to meet our cash needs and to pay dividends to our shareholders. Although, our subsidiaries’ classification as wholly foreign-owned enterprises, or WFOEs, under PRC law permits them to declare dividends and repatriate their funds to us in the United States, any change in this status or the regulations permitting such repatriation could prevent them from doing so. Any inability to repatriate funds to us would in turn prevent payments of dividends to our shareholders. Fluctuations in exchange rates could result in foreign currency exchange losses. Because substantially all of our revenues and expenditures are denominated in Renminbi and the net proceeds from our capital raising were denominated in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and Renminbi affect the relative purchasing power of these proceeds and our balance sheet and earnings per share in U.S. dollars. In addition, we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, and appreciation or depreciation in the value of the Renminbi relative to the U.S. dollar would affect our financial results reported in U.S. dollar terms without giving effect to any underlying change in our business or results of operations. Fluctuations in the exchange rate will also affect the relative value of any dividend we issue that will be exchanged into U.S. dollars and earnings from and the value of any U.S. dollar-denominated investments we make in the future. Since July 2005, the Renminbi has no longer been pegged to the U.S. dollar. Although currently the Renminbi exchange rate versus the U.S. dollar is restricted to a rise or fall of no more than 0.5% per day and the People’s Bank of China regularly intervenes in the foreign exchange market to prevent significant short-term fluctuations in the exchange rate, the Renminbi may appreciate or depreciate significantly in value against the U.S. dollar in the medium- to long-term. Moreover, it is possible that in the future, PRC authorities may lift restrictions on fluctuations in the Renminbi exchange rate and lessen intervention in the foreign exchange market. 26 Very limited hedging transactions are available in China to reduce our exposure to exchange rate fluctuations. To date, we have not entered into any hedging transactions in an effort to reduce our exposure to foreign currency exchange risk. While we may decide to enter into hedging transactions in the future, the availability and effectiveness of these hedging transactions may be limited and we may not be able to successfully hedge our exposure at all. In addition, our currency exchange losses may be magnified by PRC exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert Renminbi into foreign currency. SAFE regulations relating to offshore investment activities by PRC residents may increase our administrative burden and restrict our overseas and cross-border investment activity. If our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents fail to make any required applications and filings under such regulations, we may be unable to distribute profits and may become subject to liability under PRC laws. The PRC State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or SAFE, has promulgated several regulations, including Circular No. 75 issued in November 2005 and implementation rules issued in May 2007, requiring registrations with, and approvals from, PRC government authorities in connection with direct or indirect offshore investment activities by PRC residents. These regulations apply to our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents. The SAFE regulations require registration of direct or indirect investments made by PRC residents in offshore companies. In the event that a PRC shareholder with a direct or indirect stake in an offshore parent company fails to make the required SAFE registration, the PRC subsidiaries of that offshore parent company may be prohibited from making distributions of profit to the offshore parent and from paying the offshore parent proceeds from any reduction in capital, share transfer or liquidation in respect of the PRC subsidiaries. Further, failure to comply with the various SAFE registration requirements described above could result in liability under PRC law for foreign exchange evasion. We have requested our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents to make the necessary applications and filings as required under these regulations and under any implementing rules or approval practices that may be established under these regulations. We believe our PRC resident shareholders, including Mr. Ji, our chairman and chief executive officer, have already completed the registration process. However, as a result of the recent enactment of the regulations, lack of implementing rules and uncertainty concerning the reconciliation of the new regulations with other approval requirements, it remains unclear how these regulations, and any future legislation concerning offshore or cross-border transactions, will be interpreted, amended and implemented by the relevant government authorities. There is a risk that not all of our shareholders and beneficial owners who are PRC residents will in the future comply with our request to make or obtain any applicable registration or approvals required by these regulations or other related legislation. The failure or inability of our PRC resident shareholders and beneficial owners to receive any required approvals or make any required registrations may subject us to fines and legal sanctions, restrict our overseas or cross-border investment activities, limit our PRC subsidiaries’ ability to make distributions or pay dividends or affect our ownership structure, as a result of which our acquisition strategy and business operations and our ability to distribute profits to you could be materially and adversely affected. 27 We may have difficulty establishing adequate management, legal and financial controls in the People’s Republic of China. The PRC historically has been deficient in Western style management and financial reporting concepts and practices, as well as in modern banking, computer and other control systems. We may have difficulty in hiring and retaining a sufficient number of qualified employees to work in the PRC. As a result of these factors, we may experience difficulty in establishing management, legal and financial controls, collecting financial data and preparing financial statements, books of account and corporate records and instituting business practices that meet Western standards. Because our assets and operations are located in China, you may have difficulty enforcing any civil liabilities against us under the securities and other laws of the United States or any state. We are a holding company, and all of our assets are located in the PRC. In addition, our directors and officers are non-residents of the United States, and all or a substantial portion of the assets of these non-residents are located outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon these non-residents, or to enforce against them judgments obtained in United States courts, including judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state. There is uncertainty as to whether courts of the PRC would enforce: · Judgments of United States courts obtained against us or these non-residents based on the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state; or · In original actions brought in the PRC, liabilities against us or non-residents predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state. Enforcement of a foreign judgment in the PRC also may be limited or otherwise affected by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, arrangement, moratorium or similar laws relating to or affecting creditors’ rights generally and will be subject to a statutory limitation of time within which proceedings may be brought. PRC laws and regulations governing our businesses and the validity of certain of our contractual arrangements are uncertain. If we are found to be in violation, we could be subject to sanctions. In addition, changes in such PRC laws and regulations may materially and adversely affect our business. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of PRC laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations governing our business, or the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements with our variable interest entity, XXNGC, and its shareholders. We are considered a foreign person or foreign invested enterprise under PRC law. As a result, we are subject to PRC law limitations on foreign ownership of Chinese companies. These laws and regulations are relatively new and may be subject to change, and their official interpretation and enforcement may involve substantial uncertainty. The effectiveness of newly enacted laws, regulations or amendments may be delayed, resulting in detrimental reliance by foreign investors. New laws and regulations that affect existing and proposed future businesses may also be applied retroactively. 28 The PRC government has broad discretion in dealing with violations of laws and regulations, including levying fines, revoking business and other licenses and requiring actions necessary for compliance. In particular, licenses and permits issued or granted to us by relevant governmental bodies may be revoked at a later time by higher regulatory bodies. We cannot predict the effect of the interpretation of existing or new PRC laws or regulations on our businesses. We cannot assure you that our current ownership and operating structure would not be found to be in violation of any current or future PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may be subject to sanctions, including fines, and could be required to restructure our operations or cease to provide certain services. Any of these or similar actions could significantly disrupt our business operations or restrict us from conducting a substantial portion of our business operations, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The new Antimonopoly Law ("AML") may subject our future acquisitions to increased scrutiny, which could affect our ability to consummate acquisitions on terms favorable to us or at all. On August 8, 2006, six PRC government authorities, including the PRC Ministry of Commerce, the State Administration for Industry and Commerce, and the China Securities Regulatory Commission, promulgated a rule entitled “Provisions regarding Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Enterprises by Foreign Investors”, or the New M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The New M&A Rule, among other things, requires that certain acquisitions of Chinese domestic enterprises by foreign investors be subject to anti-trust scrutiny by the Ministry of Commerce and the State Administration for Industry and Commerce. The AML was adopted by the Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress on August 30, 2007 and became effective on August 1, 2008. The AML was enacted in part to guard against and cease monopolistic activities, and to safeguard and promote orderly market competition. In accordance with the AML, monopolistic acts shall include monopolistic agreements among business operators, abuse of dominant market positions by business operators and concentration of business operators that eliminates or restricts competition or might be eliminating or restricting competition. On August 3, 2008, the State Council promulgated the Regulations on the Thresholds for Reporting of Concentration of Business Operators, or the Reporting Threshold Regulations, which provide specific thresholds for reporting of concentration of business operators. Under the AML and the Reporting Threshold Regulations, the parties to an acquisition must report to the Ministry of Commerce in advance if in the preceding accounting year the turnover in the aggregate achieved by all the parties to the transaction exceeds RMB10.0 billion worldwide or RMB2.0 billion within China, and the turnover achieved by at least two of them respectively exceeds RMB400.0 million within China. However, the Ministry of Commerce has the right to initiate investigation of a transaction not reaching the above-mentioned reporting thresholds if the Ministry of Commerce has evidence that the transaction has or may have the effect of excluding or restricting competition. The anti-trust scrutiny procedures and requirements set forth in the AML and the Reporting Threshold Regulations grant the government extensive authority of evaluation and control over the terms of acquisitions in China by foreign investors, and their implementation involves significant uncertainties and risks. To the extent our future acquisitions meet the threshold requirements set forth in the AML and the Reporting Threshold Regulations, or are deemed by the Ministry of Commerce to meet the thresholds, we will be subject to anti-monopoly review. The consummation of our future acquisitions could therefore be much more time-consuming and complex, and any required approval processes, including obtaining approval from the Ministry of Commerce, may delay or prevent the consummation of such acquisitions, and prevent us from attaining our business objectives. 29 We may be deemed a PRC "resident enterprise" under the EIT Law and be subject to PRC taxation on our worldwide income. The EIT Law also provides that enterprises established outside of China whose “de facto management bodies” are located in China are considered “resident enterprises” and are generally subject to the uniform 25% enterprise income tax rate as to their worldwide income. Under the implementation regulations to the EIT Law issued by the State Council, “de facto management body” is defined as a body that has material and overall management and control over the manufacturing and business operations, personnel and human resources, finances and treasury, and acquisition and disposition of properties and other assets of an enterprise. It remains unclear how the PRC tax authorities will interpret this term. A substantial number of our management personnel are located in the PRC, and all of our revenues arise from our operations in China. However, we do recognize some interest income and other gains from our financing activities outside China. If the PRC tax authorities determine that we are a PRC resident enterprise, we will be subject to PRC tax on our worldwide income at the 25% uniform tax rate, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Notwithstanding the foregoing provision, the new EIT Law also provides that, if a resident enterprise already invests in another resident enterprise, the dividends received by the investing resident enterprise from the invested resident enterprise are exempt from income tax, subject to certain qualifications. Therefore, if we are classified as a resident enterprise, the dividends received from our PRC subsidiaries and investee company may be exempt from income tax. However, due to the short history of the EIT Law, it is unclear as to (i) the detailed qualification requirements for such exemption and (ii) whether dividend payments by our PRC subsidiaries and investee company to us will meet such qualification requirements, even if we are considered a PRC resident enterprise for tax purposes. Dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC may be subject to PRC withholding tax. The EIT Law provides that a withholding income tax rate of 20% will be applicable to dividends payable to foreign investors that are “non-resident enterprises” to the extent such dividends have their source within China unless the jurisdiction of such foreign investor has a tax treaty with China that provides a different withholding arrangement. The implementing regulations to the EIT Law subsequently reduced this withholding income tax rate from 20% to 10%. We are a Delaware company and substantially all of our income may be derived from dividends we receive from our operating subsidiaries located in the PRC. Thus, dividends paid to us by our subsidiaries in China may be subject to the 10% withholding income tax if we are considered as a “non-resident enterprise” under the EIT Law. If we are required under the EIT Law to pay income tax for any dividends we receive from our subsidiaries, it will materially and adversely affect the amount of dividends, if any, we may pay to our shareholders. 30 PRC regulation of direct investment and loans by offshore holding companies to PRC entities may delay or limit our ability to use the proceeds of this offering to make additional capital contributions or loans to our PRC operating businesses. Any capital contributions or loans that we, as an offshore company, make to our PRC operating businesses, including from the proceeds of this offering, are subject to PRC regulations. For example, any of our loans to our PRC operating businesses cannot exceed the difference between the total amount of investment our PRC operating businesses are approved to make under relevant PRC laws and their respective registered capital, and must be registered with the local branch of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange as a procedural matter. In addition, our capital contributions to our PRC operating businesses must be approved by the National Development and Reform Commission and the Ministry of Commerce or their local counterpart and registered with the State Administration for Industry and Commerce or its local counterpart. We cannot assure you that we will be able to obtain these approvals on a timely basis, or at all. If we fail to obtain such approvals, our ability to make equity contributions or provide loans to our PRC operating businesses or to fund their operations may be negatively affected, which could adversely affect their liquidity and their ability to fund their working capital and expansion projects and meet their obligations and commitments. Furthermore, the State Administration of Foreign Exchange promulgated a new circular in August 2008 with respect to the administration of conversion of foreign exchange capital contribution of foreign invested enterprises into RMB. Pursuant to this new circular, RMB converted from foreign exchange capital contribution can only be used for the activities within the approved business scope of such foreign invested enterprise and cannot be used for domestic equity investment or acquisition unless otherwise allowed by PRC laws or regulations. As a result, we may not be able to increase the capital contribution of our operating subsidiaries or equity investee and subsequently convert such capital contribution into RMB for equity investment or acquisition in China. We may be adversely affected by complexity, uncertainties and changes in PRC regulation of natural gas businesses and companies, including limitations on our ability to own key assets. The PRC government regulates the natural gas industry including foreign ownership of, and the licensing and permit requirements pertaining to, companies in the natural gas industry. These laws and regulations are relatively new and evolving, and their interpretation and enforcement involve significant uncertainty. As a result, in certain circumstances it may be difficult to determine what actions or omissions may be deemed to be a violation of applicable laws and regulations. Issues, risks and uncertainties relating to PRC government regulation of the natural gas industry include the following: · we only have contractual control over XXNGC. We do not own it due to the restriction of foreign investment in Chinese businesses; and · uncertainties relating to the regulation of the natural gas business in China, including evolving licensing practices, means that permits, licenses or operations at our company may be subject to challenge. This may disrupt our business, or subject us to sanctions, requirements to increase capital or other conditions or enforcement, or compromise enforceability of related contractual arrangements, or have other harmful effects on us. The interpretation and application of existing PRC laws, regulations and policies and possible new laws, regulations or policies have created substantial uncertainties regarding the legality of existing and future foreign investments in, and the businesses and activities of, natural gas businesses in China, including our business. 31 If the China Securities Regulatory Commission, or CSRC, or another PRC regulatory agency determines that its approval was required in connection with this offering, we may become subject to penalties. On August 8, 2006, six PRC regulatory agencies, including the CSRC, promulgated the Regulation on Mergers and Acquisitions of Domestic Companies by Foreign Investors, or the M&A Rule, which became effective on September 8, 2006. The M&A Rule, among other things, has certain provisions that require offshore special purpose vehicles, or SPVs, formed for the purpose of acquiring PRC domestic companies and controlled by PRC individuals, to obtain the approval of the CSRC prior to listing their securities on an overseas stock exchange. We believe, based on the opinion of our PRC legal counsel, Shaanxi Jiarui Law Firm, that while the CSRC generally has jurisdiction over overseas listings of SPVs like us, CSRC’s approval is not required for our overseas listing and any future offerings given the fact that our current corporate structure was established before the new regulation became effective. However, there remains some uncertainty as to how this regulation will be interpreted or implemented in the context of an overseas offering. If the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency subsequently determines that its approval was required for our overseas listing and any future offerings, we may face sanctions by the CSRC or another PRC regulatory agency. If this happens, these regulatory agencies may impose fines and penalties on our operations in the PRC, limit our operating privileges in the PRC, delay or restrict the injection of proceeds from an offering into our PRC subsidiaries, restrict or prohibit payment or remittance of dividends by our PRC subsidiaries to us or take other actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation and prospects, as well as the trading price of our common stock. We may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities if we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with Chinese regulations relating to employee share options granted by offshore listed companies to Chinese citizens. On March 28, 2007, SAFE issued the Application Procedure of Foreign Exchange Administration for Domestic Individuals Participating in Employee Share Holding Plan or Share Option Plan of Overseas Listed Company, or the Share Option Rule. Under the Share Option Rule, Chinese citizens who are granted share options by an offshore listed company are required, through a Chinese agent or Chinese subsidiary of the offshore listed company, to register with SAFE and complete certain other procedures, including applications for foreign exchange purchase quotas and opening special bank accounts. We and our Chinese employees who have been granted share options are subject to the Share Option Rule. If we or our Chinese employees fail to comply with these regulations, we or our Chinese employees may be subject to fines and legal sanctions imposed by SAFE or other Chinese government authorities and we may be prevented from further granting options under our share incentive plans to our employees. Such events could adversely affect our business operations. 32 Recent changes in the PRC labor law restrict our ability to reduce our workforce in the PRC in the event of an economic downturn and may increase our labor costs. In June 2007, the National People’s Congress of the PRC enacted the Labor Contract Law, which became effective on January 1, 2008. To clarify certain details in connection with the implementation of the Labor Contract Law, the State Council promulgated the Implementing Rules for the Labor Contract Law, or the Implementing Rules, on September 18, 2008 which came into effect immediately. The Labor Contract Law provides various rules regarding employment contracts that will likely have a substantial impact on employment practices in China. The Labor Contract Law imposes severe penalties on employers that fail to timely enter into employment contracts with employees. The employer is required to pay a double salary to the employee if it does not enter into a written contract with the employee within one month of the employment, and a non-fixed-term contract is assumed if a written contract is not executed after one year of the employment. Additionally, the Labor Contract Law sets a limit of two fixed-term contracts regardless of the length of each term, after which the contract must be renewed on a non-fixed-term basis should the parties agree to a further renewal unless otherwise required by the respective employee. This requirement curtails the common practice of continuously renewing short-term employment contracts. The Implementing Rules appear to further tighten this rule by suggesting that an employee has the right to demand a non-fixed-term contract upon the completion of the second fixed term regardless of whether the employer agrees to a contract renewal. A non-fixed-term contract does not have a termination date and it is generally difficult to terminate such a contract because termination must be based on limited statutory grounds. The employer can no longer supplement such statutory grounds through an agreement with the employee. In addition, the Labor Contract Law requires the payment of statutory severance upon the termination of an employment contract in most circumstances, including the expiration of a fixed-term employment contract. Under the Labor Contract Law, employers can only impose a post-termination non-competition provision on employees who have access to their confidential information for a maximum period of two years. If an employer intends to maintain the enforceability of a post-termination non-competition provision, the employer has to pay the employee compensation on a monthly basis post-termination of the employment. Under the Labor Contract Law, a “mass layoff” is defined as termination of more than 20 employees or more than 10% of the workforce. The Labor Contract Law expands the circumstances under which a mass layoff can be conducted, such as when the company undertakes a restructuring pursuant to the PRC Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, suffers serious difficulties in business operations, changes its line of business, performs significant technology improvements, changes operating methods, or where there has been a material change in the objective economic circumstances relied upon by the parties at the time of the conclusion of the employment contract, thereby making the performance of such employment contract impractical. The employer must follow specific procedures in conducting a mass layoff. There is little guidance on what penalties an employer will suffer if it fails to follow the procedural requirements in conducting the mass layoff. Finally, the Labor Contract Law requires that the employer discuss the company’s internal rules and regulations that directly affect the employees’ material interests (such as employees’ salary, work hours, leave, benefits, and training, etc.) with all employees or employee representative assemblies and consult with the trade union or employee representatives on such matters before making a final decision. All of our employees based exclusively within the PRC are covered by the new laws. As there has been little guidance and precedents as to how the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules will be enforced by the relevant PRC authorities, there remains uncertainty as to their potential impact on our business and results of operations. The implementation of the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may increase our operating expenses, in particular our personnel expenses and labor service expenses. If we want to maintain the enforceability of any of our employees’ post-termination non-competition provisions, the compensation and procedures required under the Labor Contract Law may add substantial costs and cause logistical burdens to us. Prior to the new law such compensation was often structured as part of the employee’s salary during employment, and was not an additional compensation cost. In the event that we decide to terminate employees or otherwise change our employment or labor practices, the Labor Contract Law and its Implementing Rules may also limit our ability to effect these changes in a manner that we believe to be cost-effective or desirable, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. In particular, our ability to adjust the size of our operations when necessary in periods of recession or less severe economic downturns such as the recent financial turmoil may be affected. In addition, during periods of economic decline when mass layoffs become more common, local regulations may tighten the procedures by, among other things, requiring the employer to obtain approval from the relevant local authority before conducting any mass layoff. Such regulations can be expected to exacerbate the adverse effect of the economic environment on our results of operations and financial condition. 33 Risks Related to Corporate and Stock Matters Qinan Ji, our chairman and chief executive officer, beneficially owns a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock and, as a result, he has significantly greater influence over us and our corporate actions relative to our public shareholders and his interests may not be aligned with the interests of other shareholders. As of December 31, 2009, our co-founder and chief executive officer, Mr. Ji, beneficially owned 2,965,799 shares of common stock or approximately 14.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock. Mr. Ji is an affiliate as defined in Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Act, due to the large size of his shareholding in us and his positions with us as our chairman and chief executive officer. Rule 144 defines an affiliate of a company as a person that, directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, our company. Mr. Ji has, and may continue to have, significant influence in determining the outcome of any corporate transactions or other matters submitted to our shareholders for approval, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all or substantially all of our assets, election of directors and other significant corporate actions. He may not act in the best interests of our other shareholders. In addition, without the consent of Mr. Ji, we could be prevented from entering into transactions that could be beneficial to us. This concentration of ownership may also discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company, which could deprive our shareholders of an opportunity to receive a premium for their shares as part of a sale of our company and might reduce the price of our common stock. These actions may be taken even if they are opposed by our other shareholders. The limited trading volume in our stock may cause volatility in the market price of our common stock. Our common stock is currently traded on a limited basis on the OTCBB under the symbol, “CHNG.OB” The quotation of our common stock on the OTCBB does not assure that a meaningful, consistent and liquid trading market currently exists, and in recent years, such market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have particularly affected the market prices of many smaller companies like us. Our common stock is thus subject to volatility. In the absence of an active trading market: · investors may have difficulty buying and selling or obtaining market quotations; · market visibility for our common stock may be limited; and · a lack of visibility for our common stock may have a depressive effect on the market for our common stock. NASD sales practice requirements may also limit a stockholder’s ability to buy and sell our stock. Section 15(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 15g-2 promulgated thereunder by the SEC require broker-dealers dealing in penny stocks to provide potential investors with a document disclosing the risks of penny stocks and to obtain a manually signed and dated written receipt of the document before effecting any transaction in a penny stock for the investor’s account. 34 Potential investors in our common stock are urged to obtain and read such disclosure carefully before purchasing any shares that are deemed to be “penny stock.” Moreover, Rule 15g-9 requires broker-dealers in penny stocks to approve the account of any investor for transactions in such stocks before selling any penny stock to that investor. This procedure requires the broker-dealer to (i) obtain from the investor information concerning his or her financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives; (ii)reasonably determine, based on that information, that transactions in penny stocks are suitable for the investor and that the investor has sufficient knowledge and experience as to be reasonably capable of evaluating the risks of penny stock transactions; (iii) provide the investor with a written statement setting forth the basis on which the broker-dealer made the determination in (ii) above; and (iv) receive a signed and dated copy of such statement from the investor, confirming that it accurately reflects the investor’s financial situation, investment experience and investment objectives. Compliance with these requirements may make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to resell their shares to third parties or to otherwise dispose of them in the market or otherwise. Shares eligible for future sale may adversely affect the market price of our common stock, as the future sale of a substantial amount of our restricted stock in the public marketplace could reduce the price of our common stock. From time to time, certain of our stockholders may be eligible to sell all or some of their shares of common stock by means of ordinary brokerage transactions in the open market pursuant to Rule 144, promulgated under the Securities Act (“Rule 144”), subject to certain limitations. In general, pursuant to Rule 144, a stockholder (or stockholders whose shares are aggregated) who has satisfied a six-month holding period may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of securities which does not exceed the greater of 1% of the then outstanding shares of common stock or the average weekly trading-volume of the class during the four calendar weeks prior to such sale. Rule 144 also permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of securities, without any limitations, by a non-affiliate of our company that has satisfied a one-year holding period. Any substantial sale of common stock pursuant to Rule 144 or pursuant to any resale prospectus may have an adverse effect on the market price of our securities. Stockholders should have no expectation of any dividends. The holders of our common stock are entitled to receive dividends when declared by the Board of Directors out of funds available. To date, we have not declared nor paid any cash dividends. The Board of Directors does not intend to declare any dividends in the near future, but instead intends to retain all earnings, if any, for use in our business operations. Furthermore, if we decide to pay dividends, foreign exchange and other regulations in China may restrict our ability to distribute retained earnings from China or convert those payments from Renminbi into foreign currencies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 35 ITEM 