Risk Factors" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K that could cause our actual growth, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows, performance and business prospects and opportunities to differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, these statements. Our forward-looking statements may include or relate to the following: (i) our plans to continue to grow our business through organic growth and integration of previous and future acquisitions; (ii) our beliefs with respect to the sufficiency of our liquidity and our plans to evaluate alternate sources of funding if necessary; (iii) our expectations relating to the extension, continuation or renewal of federal tax incentives and grants and state renewable portfolio standards; (iv) our expectations relating to construction of new facilities, expansion of existing facilities and sufficiency of our existing capacity to meet the demands of our customers and support expectations regarding our growth; (v) our plans with respect to the use of proceeds from financing activities; (vi) our beliefs and expectations relating to the economic downturn and the potential impact it may have on our business, including our customers; (vii) the anticipated benefits of our remediation efforts on the strength of our internal control processes and our plans with respect to future remediation efforts; and (viii) our beliefs regarding the state of the wind energy market generally. You should not consider any list of such factors to be an exhaustive statement of all of the risks, uncertainties, or potentially inaccurate assumptions that could cause our current expectations or beliefs to change. Except as expressly required by the federal securities laws, we undertake no obligation to update such factors or to publicly announce the results of any of the forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect future events, developments, or changed circumstances or for any other reason. ITEM 1. BUSINESS As used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the terms "we," "us," "our," "Broadwind," and the "Company" refer to Broadwind Energy, Inc., a Delaware incorporated company headquartered in Naperville, Illinois, and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Business Overview Broadwind Energy provides technologically advanced high-value products and services to the U.S. wind energy industry. We believe we are the only independent company that offers our breadth of products and services to the market. Our product and service portfolio provides our customers, including wind turbine manufacturers, wind farm developers and wind farm operators, with access to a broad array of wind component and service offerings, which we believe is becoming increasingly important in today's wind market. We also provide technical service and precision repair and engineering and specialized logistics to the wind industry in the United States, a highly-fragmented market in which we hold a significant position. We have long standing relationships with our primary customers, who include several leading participants in the U.S. wind sector. We believe we are well positioned to capture market opportunities associated with the anticipated growth in the wind farm development business in the United States. We believe this turn-around will be 1 Table of Contents driven by: (i) macroeconomic factors, including a broad economic recovery, an increase in overall energy prices and federal and state-level wind development incentives, (ii) broad upgrades to existing transmission infrastructure and increasing proliferation of smart grid technology, and (iii) the maturation of technologies and services within the wind industry, including increased turbine efficiencies, a coordinated global supply chain and improved equipment maintenance and reliability. Given our installed capital base, we believe we will be able to substantially grow revenues prior to investing in additional capital equipment. As of December 31, 2009, we had four subsidiaries which consisted of Brad Foote Gear Works, Inc. ("Brad Foote"), Tower Tech Systems Inc. ("Tower Tech"), Energy Maintenance Service, LLC ("EMS") and Badger Transport, Inc. ("Badger"). In December 2009, we merged the operations of our R.B.A., Inc. ("RBA") subsidiary into Tower Tech. In December 2009, we revised our reporting segment presentation into four reportable operating segments: Towers, Gearing, Technical and Engineering Services, and Logistics. Accordingly, all current and prior period financial results have been revised to reflect these changes. For additional financial information related to our segments, please refer to Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and Note 19 "Segment Reporting" in Item 15 in the notes to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of summary financial information by segment. The following is a description of our product and service offerings: Towers We manufacture structural towers for wind turbines. We specialize in heavier "next generation" wind towers that are larger, more technically advanced towers, designed for 2 megawatt ("MW") and larger wind turbines. Since starting commercial production in 2005, we have produced over 500 towers. Our production facilities are strategically located in close proximity to the primary U.S. wind resource regions, sited in Wisconsin, Texas and South Dakota. When our Brandon, South Dakota facility becomes operational, our three tower production facilities will have a combined annual tower production capacity sufficient to support turbines generating more than 1,500 MW of power. Our structural towers for wind turbines are predominantly sold to wind turbine manufacturers who utilize our products in the assembly of wind turbines. Due to the highly specialized nature of our products, they are generally sold through our direct sales force following an evaluation, qualification and testing period, which may occur over a number of months. We compete based on product performance, quality, price, location and available capacity. We have periodically entered into multi-year framework agreements under which we expect to provide products to certain key customers over multi-year periods. Our principal wind tower customers include Gamesa, Vestas and Nordex. We also manufacture specialty fabrications and heavy weldments for wind energy and other industrial customers. Gearing We manufacture high precision gearing systems for wind turbines. We also manufacture custom-engineered gearing systems for the mining, energy and other industrial sectors. We produce to the highest industry quality standards, and we were the first U.S. gear manufacturer to achieve ISO 9001 certification. We use an integrated manufacturing process, which includes our machining process in Cicero, Illinois, our heat treatment process in Neville Island, Pennsylvania and our finishing process in our Cicero factory. These complex production processes allow us to manufacture custom products to meet the stringent tolerances and high quality standards of our wind 2 Table of Contents turbine customers. Our precision gearing manufacturing facilities have the production capacity to support turbines producing more than 4,000 MW of power annually. Due to the highly specialized nature of our gearing, it is generally sold through our direct sales force following an evaluation, qualifying, prototyping and testing period, which may occur over a number of months. We compete based on product performance, quality, price and available capacity. We have periodically entered into multi-year framework agreements under which we expect to provide products to certain key customers over multi-year periods. Our principal customers include General Electric and Clipper Windpower, both of whom have been long-standing customers. We are currently in discussions with large global gear drive original equipment manufacturers with the aim of becoming a gearing system supplier to one or more of these companies. We also manufacture gearing for industrial markets including mining and oilfield equipment. We target niche markets and applications that require the strict tolerances and high quality standards of our processes. These products serve to diversify our customer and product portfolio and balance our plant loadings. Technical and Engineering Services We offer technical and precision repair and engineering services to developers and operators of wind farms and manufacturers of wind turbines. Our technical services business provides construction support and operations and maintenance services to the wind industry. Our engineering services include precision repair and refurbishment of the complex systems and components of wind turbines. Sales contacts are typically initiated through a small direct sales force, or through operating unit managers located in our geographically dispersed service locations. Sales are generally made under individual purchase orders, although we have blanket purchase orders or framework agreements in place with select key customers. Our Technical and Engineering Services business competes with a number of independent service providers in a highly-fragmented but growing industry. Our principal Technical and Engineering Services segment customers include Bluarc, NexGen Energy Partners, NextEra Energy Resources, Siemens Energy and Suzlon Wind Energy. Our service locations are in Illinois, California, South Dakota, Texas and Colorado. Our vision is to become the most comprehensive service provider to the United States and Canadian wind industry by expanding the number of our service centers and product offerings. Our specialty services include oil change-out, up-tower tooling for gearing systems, drive-train and blade repairs and component replacement. Our construction support capabilities include assembly of towers, nacelles, blades and other components. We also provide customer support, preventive maintenance and wind technician training. Our technicians utilize our regional service centers for storage and repair of parts as well as our training offerings. Through our precision repair and engineering services, we repair and refurbish complex wind components, including control systems, gearboxes and blades. We also conduct warranty inspections, commission turbines and provide technical assistance. Additionally, we build replacement control panels for kilowatt ("kW") class wind turbines and repair both kW and MW blades. A large portion of the approximately 35,000 MW installed base of wind turbines in the United States is now coming out of warranty, creating a growing need for MW gearbox refurbishment. We plan to develop during 2010 the first independent gearbox refurbishing center and gearbox test stand to perform full-load testing for MW class wind turbine units. Logistics We offer specialized transportation, permitting and logistics management to the wind industry for oversize and overweight machinery and equipment. We deliver complete turbines to the installation site, including blades, nacelles and tower sections for final erection. We focus on the project 3 Table of Contents management of the delivery of complete wind turbine farms. We have a fleet of over 60 specialized heavy haul trailers supporting annual delivery of 500 MW of full turbine components. We primarily compete based on the availability of our trailer asset base, our service, price and reliability. Sales contracts are typically initiated through a small direct sales force, under discrete purchase orders issued by a turbine manufacturer or wind farm developer. Although we predominantly focus on wind energy customers, we also periodically haul other oversized equipment such as large pressure vessels or other industrial equipment, in order to maintain utilization of our heavy haul fleet. Our principal customers include Gamesa and Suzlon Wind Energy. Competitive Strengths We believe our business model offers a number of competitive strengths that have contributed to our commercial success and will enable us to capitalize on significant opportunities for growth. These competitive strengths include the following: •Strong relationships with leading wind industry players. Our integrated business model has enabled us to hold leading positions in many of the markets we serve by successfully winning key contracts and establishing strong relationships with major wind sector manufacturers. We provide products and services to the eight largest wind turbine manufacturers currently selling in the United States: Acciona, Clipper Windpower, Gamesa, General Electric, Mitsubishi, Siemens Energy, Suzlon Wind Energy, and Vestas. We believe our relationships with leading players endorse our product quality and service capabilities and position us well to sell effectively to new customers. We intend to continue to develop long-term, multi-year contracts and strategic customer relationships across our businesses. •Leading service platform. We are the largest horizontally integrated independent service provider to the U.S. wind industry. We believe that we are differentiated by the breadth of our offerings, which enables us to work with wind farm developers through a project lifecycle: construction support including logistics and transport, commissioning of the wind farm, ongoing maintenance and operational support services, precision repair and upgrades to existing installations. Our in-house gearing system manufacturing expertise positions us to enter the market for gearbox repair and refurbishment which, for MW-scale turbines, has historically been performed by non-domestic sources. We believe that our broad service offerings and technical capabilities will allow us to grow our services business significantly as the installed wind turbine base grows and wind turbines come off warranty. •Manufacturing and service capacity to support anticipated growth. Over the past two years, we have made substantial upfront investments in property and equipment to position ourselves to take advantage of the expected rapid growth in the North American wind industry. We believe this capacity will allow us to quickly respond to increased demand from our customers and enable us to gain share as market growth returns. We have invested substantial capital in technology, engineering and manufacturing capabilities and capacity for both wind turbine towers and gearing systems. We have also invested significantly to grow our capacity through the addition of personnel and new technical and precision repair and engineering service offerings and by expanding our footprint of regional service centers. In connection with the expected growth of the wind power market, we believe these investments will allow us to realize significant operating leverage as we increase our revenues with minimal capital expenditure. •Ability to cross-sell our product and service offerings. Our combined product and service suite provides us with opportunities to increase sales to existing customers and approach potential customers with a coordinated offering. Leveraging our broad existing customer base, we have realized additional revenues by selling products and services that our customers previously purchased from various other providers. As an example, we have provided logistics services to 4 Table of Contents customers to whom we had previously only supplied towers or operations and maintenance services. We have also recently been engaged by wind farm developers for comprehensive supply chain solutions including supply of towers, gearbox rebuilds, transport and logistics and construction and commissioning support services. We believe that the breadth of our comprehensive solution is unique and is compelling for the growing segment of smaller wind developers. •Horizontally integrated supply chain offering with strategically located operations. We believe that we have the leading North American platform designed to provide an integrated solution to the fragmented supply chain our customers face. Today, the manufacture and production of wind turbines involves over 8,000 components and many of the key inputs are both geographically dispersed and lack integration. This results in high transportation costs and quality control issues as many developers and manufacturers are forced to coordinate among multiple suppliers. While we do not provide all key components, our wind turbine component production capabilities combined with the broad array of services we offer allows our customers to simplify coordination for these increasingly complex wind development projects. We believe the breadth of our capabilities will prove attractive to new entrants and incumbents by improving speed to market, increasing product reliability and reducing costs. Additionally, our production facilities and service offerings are strategically located near existing wind centers, which allows us to minimize our response time and reduce logistics costs for our customers. •Industry leading technology and manufacturing expertise. We utilize industry-leading technology and design capabilities and have wind product manufacturing expertise. We specialize in manufacturing "next generation" wind towers, and we were the first U.S. gear manufacturer to achieve ISO 9001 certification. Our gearing systems production facilities utilize state-of-the-art Höfler production centers and are experienced in designing and manufacturing customized products to meet specific customer needs. We have diverse technical repair expertise and the necessary spare inventory to minimize costs and response time and deliver the greatest long-term value for the lifecycle of our customers' projects. We believe our ability to design and manufacture high quality customized products and provide superior service creates high barriers to entry and allows us to maintain an advantage over our competition. •Experienced management team with decades of wind industry experience. Our senior management team has significant industry experience and proven expertise in wind and other energy sectors and holds leadership positions in industry organizations such as the American Wind Energy Association ("AWEA"), the Canadian Wind Energy Association and the American Gear Manufacturers Association. Key areas of expertise include high technical specification industrial manufacturing, operational execution in the wind industry, strategic business development, financial planning and acquisition integration. Members of our senior management team have held positions at leading global and national wind and industrial sector companies including Vestas, General Electric, Trinity Industries, DMI Industries, British Petroleum, Regal Beloit, FMC Technologies and Federal Signal. Business and Operating Strategy We intend to capitalize on the anticipated growth of the wind sector in the United States and Canada by providing our technologically advanced, highly reliable, value-added products and components and customized services across the wind supply chain to enhance our leadership position. Our strategic objectives include the following: •Utilize our established platform to increase market share and satisfy customer demand. During 2008, we took steps to enhance our manufacturing capabilities by increasing gearing production capacity and constructing a new state-of-the-art tower manufacturing plant in Abilene, Texas. 5 Table of Contents In January 2010, we completed construction of an additional tower manufacturing plant in Brandon, South Dakota, which is not yet operational. We increased specialized heavy-haul capacity by over 20% and increased our service capacity through strategic hiring and the addition of a new facility capable of supporting MW-class blade repair. We believe our presence in key wind resource states provides us with an advantage on cost, efficiency and speed to market by limiting exchange rate risk and importation and customs duties (compared to international competitors) and substantially reducing transportation and working capital costs for our customers. As a result, we believe that we are well positioned with our existing infrastructure to take advantage of projected improvements in market conditions. •Continue to develop and grow our service businesses. We have established a network of service centers strategically located near key wind farm sites with precision repair and engineering capabilities and skilled personnel. We believe that there is a significant opportunity to continue to develop this network to provide more comprehensive support to additional businesses in the wind industry. Wind turbine components are initially serviced by wind turbine manufacturers under applicable warranties, which have generally been shortening over time. We believe that, as the size of the installed base grows and ages, manufacturer warranties expire and as the complexity and size of wind turbines increase, wind farm operators will increasingly seek third party service providers to maintain their assets. We intend to support our customers' service strategies, to further develop our own service channels and to capture a share of the expanding service and aftermarket support business through relationships with wind turbine manufacturers, wind farm operators and independent service providers. •Leverage our success in North America to pursue international business opportunities. We have begun to expand our focus beyond the North American wind energy market to develop an international presence as a long-term strategic objective. We believe that there has been a rapid migration of turbine manufacturers to the United States, which has allowed us to develop relationships with leading global turbine assembly companies and increases our opportunity to leverage these relationships into global markets. We have recently restructured our management team to provide the framework for pursuing international business opportunities, which we believe will expand our revenue opportunities and enable us to better serve our customers, enhance our supply chain and develop additional synergies across our operating units. •Continue to improve production technology and operational efficiency. We believe that the proper coordination and integration of the supply chain are key factors that enable high operating efficiencies, increased reliability and lower costs. Our manufacturing facilities include state-of-the-art equipment and lean processes to help enhance our operational efficiency and flexibility. We will continue to pursue strategies to further optimize our production processes to generate increased output, leverage our scale and lower our costs while maintaining product quality. •Broaden our product offerings. We believe that we offer one of the most complete sets of product offerings addressing the needs of customers across the North American wind supply chain. We are dedicated to the identification, development and commercialization of new products that take advantage of our scale in order to provide comprehensive solutions for our customers. Since a turbine may contain more than 8,000 components, we plan to take advantage of our extensive expertise and technological capabilities to develop the complex product offerings required to compete in the North American wind market. As the North American wind industry matures and the complexity of wind turbines increases, complex product offerings, advanced supply chain management and specialized services will be critical for wind turbine manufacturers and wind farm developers and owners, and we intend to pursue our 6 Table of Contents business strategies and maintain and enhance our established platform to more deeply penetrate our target markets and further diversify our customer base. Wind Turbine Components A wind turbine and its components represent approximately 65% of the costs of new wind farms. The manufacture and production of wind energy-related infrastructure involves over 8,000 components. The five most significant components, each of which generally accounts for more than 10% of the overall cost of a turbine, are the tower, blade system, nacelle, gearbox and pitch systems and bearings. Additional key components include the generator and the controller. The following illustration shows the key components of a wind turbine. Towers A wind tower accounts for approximately 18-27% of the total capital cost of a wind turbine. A tower's cost is proportional to its height and diameter. Taller towers give access to stronger winds and more even wind flow, both of which lead to a higher electrical output. Industry research indicates that for tower sizes between 80 and 100 meters, each additional meter delivers 0.9% more yield. Doubling the height of the tower generally requires doubling its diameter and increasing the amount of material needed by a factor of eight, which results in a trade-off between the additional yields delivered by increasing tower height versus the additional cost of the tower. We manufacture wind towers in our Manitowoc, Wisconsin and Abilene, Texas facilities and have a recently constructed, but not yet operational wind tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota. Nacelle The nacelle houses most of the wind turbine's components including the generator, gearbox and control systems as well as thousands of smaller components and accounts for approximately 12-22% of 7 Table of Contents a wind turbine's cost. Due to the decrease in global foundry capacity since World War II, only a relatively few suppliers are capable of the precision production required for the large size and thinness of nacelle components. Some European wind turbine manufacturers have tried to identify cast product suppliers in India and China; however, it has been difficult finding the necessary standards and quality. We do not manufacture nacelles but we do service and repair nacelle components. Blade System The blade and hub system (rotor) is attached to the nacelle via the rotor shaft and rotates at an angular speed dependent on the power of the wind. Blades account for approximately 20-25% of the cost of a wind turbine and are typically made out of fiberglass and epoxy resin. Blades are currently the focus of significant research and development both at national research institutions and also at wind turbine manufacturers. With lengths upwards of 60 meters, blades can be difficult and expensive to manufacture and transport. The risk of damage in transit requires careful logistics planning and creates a demand for blade production sites near the end-market. We do not manufacture blade systems but we do service and repair blade systems. Gearbox The gearbox is made almost entirely of steel and is the heaviest component in the wind turbine's nacelle. The gearbox accounts for approximately 11-15% of a wind turbine's cost. The gearbox connects the low-speed shaft driven by the rotor blade to the high-speed shaft that drives the generator, increasing the rotational speeds from about 30 to 60 rotations per minute ("rpm") to about 1,200 to 1,500 rpm, which is the rotational speed required by most generators to produce electricity. Contained in the gearbox is a highly precise gearing system. We manufacture gearing systems in our Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania facilities. Pitch Systems and Bearings Pitch systems maximize a wind turbine's energy converting efficiency by optimizing the positioning of the machine housing and blades in relation to the wind direction. Pitch systems and bearings account for approximately 11-15% of a wind turbine's cost. We do not manufacture pitch systems or bearings. COMPANY HISTORY We are a Delaware corporation. We were incorporated in Nevada in 1996 as Blackfoot Enterprises Inc. ("Blackfoot"). In February 2006, Blackfoot completed a reverse shell transaction with Tower Tech, whereupon Blackfoot became a holding company for Tower Tech, and subsequently changed its name to Tower Tech Holdings Inc. In 2008, Tower Tech Holdings Inc. reincorporated in Delaware and changed its name from Tower Tech Holdings Inc. to Broadwind Energy, Inc. Through our October 2007 acquisitions of RBA and Brad Foote and acquisitions of EMS and Badger in January and June of 2008, respectively, we expanded upon our core platform as a wind tower component manufacturer and established our gearing systems, industrial products, technical services, precision repair and engineering and logistics businesses. SALES AND MARKETING Our sales and marketing strategy is to develop and maintain long-term relationships with our customers and to offer a comprehensive suite of products and services to them. We pursue this strategy by working closely with our customers in developing and designing customized product, manufacturing, and service solutions. We also intend for our offerings to fulfill needs that our customers may consider non-core and do not desire to provide for within their organizations. We attempt to base-load our manufacturing facilities by negotiating long-term agreements, under which we supply our customers 8 Table of Contents with gearing, towers or industrial products. Similarly, we seek to establish long-term relationships to provide logistics or technical and engineering services to our customers, which may be subject to framework agreements or undertaken on a project by project basis. Our customer base consists of wind turbine manufacturers who supply end-users and wind turbine developers with completed wind turbines, as well as wind farm developers and wind farm operators themselves. Within the wind industry, we have long-standing relationships with customers, engaging them at various levels from key account management, site management, research and development, product design and manufacturing up to senior management. COMPETITION We do not believe that any competitors exist that have developed a similar suite of products and services for the North American wind industry as those offered by our businesses. However, competition within each of our subsidiaries' niches exists and some of our customers maintain internal capabilities that compete with our offerings. Several domestic and international wind tower manufacturers compete in the United States, including Ameron International Corporation, DMI Industries, Dong Kuk, Hendricks, Trinity Industries, Inc. and Win&P. We are a major North American supplier of wind energy gear sets. Approximately five companies worldwide have the proven ability and capacity to compete with us to supply gear sets for the wind industry. Two of the major European suppliers are owned or affiliated with wind turbine manufacturers: Hansen Transmissions (affiliated with Suzlon energy) and Winergy/Flender (owned by Siemens). The competitor group participating to provide industrial gearing is slightly more fragmented. These companies compete based upon price, quality, location, available capacity, and several other factors. Anderson Trucking Service and Lonestar Trucking are our main logistics competitors, while additional competition within the market for technical and engineering services market is highly fragmented. ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE Our operations are subject to numerous federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations. While it is our objective to maintain compliance with these respective laws and regulations, it may not be possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of actions regarding environmental matters, particularly remediation and other compliance efforts that we may undertake in the future. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial operations and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. We do not currently anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities in the near term. BACKLOG The majority of our products are sold under long-term supply agreements and our services are typically sold under purchase orders and service contracts. Some of these supply agreements are structured as framework agreements, whereby we are required to reserve a specified percentage of our production capacity based upon mutually agreed production volumes. Under these framework agreements, we receive purchase orders on a monthly basis or based upon our customer's forecast of production volume levels. These long-term agreements have various terms, but generally range from several months to three years with some contracts carrying automatic renewal provisions. As of December 31, 2009, the dollar amount of our backlog believed to be firm under our supply agreements, purchase orders and service contracts was approximately $247.3 million, of which $119.3 million is expected to be delivered during 2010. Deliveries during 2010 may be subject to change as a result of any future modifications to our existing customer framework agreements or purchase orders. 9 Table of Contents SEASONALITY The majority of our business is not affected by seasonality, although the provision of logistical and technical services can be negatively affected by weather-related constraints. EMPLOYEES We had 690 employees at December 31, 2009, of which 552 were in manufacturing, service, and field support related functions and 138 were in administrative functions. Approximately 21% of our employees are covered by two collective bargaining agreements with local unions in Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania. Collective bargaining agreements with our Neville Island and Cicero unions were ratified by local unions in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010, respectively, and are scheduled to remain in effect through October 2012 and February 2014, respectively. We consider our union and employee relations to be satisfactory. RAW MATERIALS The primary raw material used in the construction of wind towers and gearing products is steel in the form of steel plate, forgings, and castings. Additionally, some agreements may allow customers to independently provide steel for the construction of wind towers. We operate a multiple sourcing strategy and source our raw materials through various suppliers located throughout the United States and abroad. We do not generally have long-term supply agreements with any of our raw materials suppliers and closely match terms with those of our customers to limit our exposure to price fluctuations. We believe that we will be able to obtain an adequate supply of steel and other raw materials to meet our manufacturing requirements. QUALITY CONTROL We have a long-standing focus on processes for ensuring the manufacture of high quality products. To achieve high standards of production and operational quality, we implement strict and extensive quality control and inspection throughout our production processes. We maintain internal quality controls over all core manufacturing processes and carry out quality assurance inspections at the completion of each major manufacturing step to ensure the quality of our products. The manufacturing process at our Gearing operation, for example, involves transforming forged steel into highly technical specification gears through rough machining, hobbing, reinforcing thermal treatment, fine machining and fine grinding. We inspect and test raw materials before they enter the assembly process, re-test the raw materials after rough machining, test the functioning of gear teeth and cores after thermal treatment and accuracy test final outputs for product specifications. We believe our investment in industry-leading heat treatment, high precision machining, specialized grinding technologies, and cutting edge welding has contributed to our high product reliability and consistent performance of our products under varying operating conditions once installed. Our Gearing segment is ISO 9001:2000 certified and our other companies have certification programs in various stages of completion. CUSTOMERS We manufacture products for and provide logistics, technical and engineering services to a variety of customers in the wind energy, oil and gas, mining and other industries. The majority of our customer base consists of wind turbine manufacturers, who supply wind farm operators and wind farm developers with completed wind turbines. In the other industrial sectors, we sell our products through our trained sales force or through manufacturers' representatives to a wide variety of customers. The wind turbine market is very concentrated. According to AWEA's 2009 industry data, the top eight wind turbine 10 Table of Contents manufacturers constituted over 97% of the North American market. As a result, our concentration with a limited number of customers accounted for the majority of our revenues. Sales to each of Gamesa, Clipper Windpower, Nordex and General Electric represented an amount greater than 10% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 and the loss of one of these customers could have a material adverse effect on our business. Despite these significant customers, our customer concentration declined in 2009. In 2008, four customers accounted for greater than 75% of our total revenues compared to six customers in 2009. We intend to continue to diversify our customer base as we grow our business. Our current portfolio of key customers includes: Clipper Windpower, Gamesa, General Electric, Nordex, Siemens Energy, Suzlon Wind Energy, Vestas and Bluarc. WORKING CAPITAL Our primary customers are wind turbine manufacturers and wind farm developers. The industry has historically entered into customized contracts with varying terms and conditions between suppliers and customers, depending on the specific objectives of each party. Our practices mirror this historical industry practice for negotiating agreements on a case-by-case basis. As a result, working capital needs, including levels of accounts receivable and inventory, can vary significantly from quarter to quarter based on the contractual terms associated with that quarter's sales, such as whether we are required to purchase and supply steel pursuant to such contractual terms. CORPORATE INFORMATION Our principal executive office is located at 47 East Chicago Avenue, Suite 332, Naperville, IL 60540. Our phone number is (630) 637-0315 and our website address is www.broadwindenergy.com. OTHER INFORMATION On our website at www.broadwindenergy.com, we make available under the "Investors" menu selection, free of charge, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Form 10-KSB, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Form 10-QSB, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports or amendments are electronically filed with, or furnished to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Materials that we file or furnish to the SEC may also be read and copied at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Also, the SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information that we file electronically with SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business Our businesses, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition, may continue to be adversely affected by dislocation in the global credit markets and economic uncertainty. The disruption in the global credit markets, the re-pricing of credit risk and the deterioration of the financial and real estate markets generally, particularly in the United States and Europe, have all contributed to a reduction in consumer spending and a contraction in global economic growth including the wind energy sector. The recession has had negative effects on demand for alternative sources of energy and consequently for our product and service offerings. Although there is a growing confidence that the global economies have resumed growth, there remains risk that the recovery will be short-lived, such recovery may not include the industries or markets in which we conduct our business or the 11 Table of Contents downturn may resume. In addition, because there is a long lead-time between orders for wind products and delivery, there is generally a lag before the impact of changed economic conditions affects our results, and an improvement in economic conditions may not be reflected in our financial results of operations in a corresponding manner. Any deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including lower sales and extended renewal cycles if there is a reduction in demand for wind energy and such deterioration could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, risks we might face could include: potential declines in revenues in our business segments due to reduced orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers, and an inability to finance our operating needs on reasonable terms. The U.S. wind industry is reliant on tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. Our business segments are focused on supplying products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The wind industry is dependent upon federal tax incentives and state renewable portfolio standards and may not be economically viable absent such incentives. The federal government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including a federal production tax credit, an investment tax credit and a cash grant equal in value to the investment tax credit. The production tax credit was extended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA") in February 2009 and provides the owner of a qualifying wind energy facility placed in service before the end of 2012 with a ten-year tax credit against the owner's federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity generated by the qualifying wind energy facility and sold to unrelated third parties. Alternatively, wind project owners may (i) elect to receive an investment tax credit equal to 30% of the qualifying basis of facilities placed in service before the end of 2012 or (ii) for facilities placed in service in 2009 or 2010 (or, if construction begins before the end of 2010, placed in service before the end of 2012), apply to receive a cash grant from the Department of Treasury, equal in value to the investment tax credit. These programs provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services. The increased demand for our products and services resulting from the credits and incentives may continue until such credits or incentives lapse. The failure of Congress to extend or renew these incentives beyond their current expiration dates could significantly delay the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers, gearing and related components. In addition, we cannot assure you that any subsequent extension or renewal of the production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program will be enacted prior to its expiration or, if allowed to expire, that any extension or renewal enacted thereafter would be enacted with retroactive effect. It is possible that these federal incentives will not be extended beyond their current expiration dates. Any delay or failure to extend or renew the federal production tax credit, investment tax credit or cash grant program in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. State renewable energy portfolio standards generally require or encourage state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. Typically, utilities comply with such standards by qualifying for renewable energy credits evidencing the share of electricity that was produced from renewable sources. Under many state standards, these renewable energy credits can be unbundled from their associated energy and traded in a market system allowing generators with insufficient credits to meet their applicable state mandate. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured 12 Table of Contents products. Currently, the majority of states and the District of Colombia have renewable energy portfolio standards in place and certain states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of renewable energy portfolio standards in additional states or any changes to existing renewable energy portfolio standards, or the enactment of a federal renewable energy portfolio standard or imposition of other greenhouse gas regulations may impact the demand for our products. We cannot assure you that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products governing, among other things, air emissions, wastewater discharges, the use, handling and disposal of hazardous materials, soil and groundwater contamination, employee health and safety, and product content, performance and packaging. We cannot guarantee that we will at all times be in compliance with such laws and regulations and if we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or our permitting and other requirements, we may be required to pay fines, limit production at our facilities or be subject to other sanctions. Also, certain environmental laws can impose the entire or a portion of the cost of investigating and cleaning up a contaminated site, regardless of fault, upon any one or more of a number of parties, including the current or previous owner or operator of the site. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances at a contaminated site. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of sites and users of disposal sites for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous substances from those sites. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial operations and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. Changes in existing environmental laws and regulations, or their application, could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. Our facilities emit greenhouse gases which may be subject to pending or future environmental laws or regulations, which could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve and maintain compliance. The assertion of claims relating to on- or off-site contamination, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities, or the imposition of unanticipated investigation or cleanup obligations, could result in potentially significant expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our financial and operating performance is subject to certain factors which are out of our control, including prevailing economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in North America. As a supplier of products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities, our results of operations (like those of our customers) are subject to general economic conditions and specifically, to the state of the wind energy market. In addition to the state and federal government policies supporting renewable energy described above, the growth and development of the larger wind energy market in North America is subject to a number of factors, including, among other things: •available financing for the estimated pipeline of wind development projects; 13 Table of Contents •the cost of electricity, which may be affected by a number of factors, including the cost and availability of fuel, government regulation, power transmission, seasonality and fluctuations in demand; •the development of new power generating technology or advances of existing technology or discovery of power generating natural resources; •the development of electrical transmission infrastructure; •state and federal laws and regulations; •administrative and legal challenges to proposed wind development projects; and •public perception and localized community responses to wind energy projects. In addition, while some of the factors listed above may only affect individual wind project developments or portions of the market, in the aggregate they may have a significant effect on the successful development of the wind energy market, and thus affect our operating and financial results. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers. The wind turbine market in the United States is very concentrated, with eight manufacturers controlling in excess of 97% of the market. Like us, these customers were adversely affected by the downturn in the economy and we have seen, and may continue to see, a decrease in order volume from such customers. During 2009, we were affected by the global economic downturn, particularly with respect to the economic impact that it had on our customers. Historically, the majority of our revenues are highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2009, four customers—Gamesa, Nordex, General Electric and Clipper Windpower—each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues and our six largest customers accounted for 75% of our consolidated revenues. During 2009, several of our customers expressed their intent to scale back, delay or restructure existing customer agreements, which led to reduced revenues from these customers. As a result, our operating profits and gross margins were negatively affected by a decline in production levels during 2009, which created production volume inefficiencies in our operations and cost structures. Additionally, if our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which would materially adversely affect our results. We could be adversely impacted by decreased customer demand for our products and services due to (1) the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, (2) our customers' loss of market share to competitors of theirs that do not use our products, and (3) our loss of market share with our customers. We could lose market share with our customers to competitors or to our customers themselves, should they decide to become more vertically integrated and produce our products and services internally. Finally, most of our customers do not purchase all of our products and services, so if some of our customers gain market share, it could impact our mix of services and products among our segments. In addition, even if our customers continue to do business with us, we can be adversely affected by a number of other potential developments with our customers. For example: •our customers may not comply with their contractual payment or volume obligations. The inability or failure of our customers to meet their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations; •our customers have, and in the future may seek to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. For example, some customers have sought payments from us for claims despite contractual limits that preclude our obligation to make payments for such claims; 14 Table of Contents •although our subsidiary companies operate independently, a dispute between a significant customer and us or one of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on the business relationship we have with that customer across our entire organization. Among other things, such a dispute could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of our subsidiaries that are otherwise not related to such a dispute; and •a material change in payment terms for accounts receivable of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash flows. Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the markets. Current market disruptions and regular market volatility may have adverse impacts on our customers' ability to pay when due the amounts payable to us and could cause related increases in our working capital or borrowing needs. In addition, our customers have in the past and may attempt in the future to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. Our backlog is substantial, but we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of our backlog that we will be successful in collecting from our customers. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers bringing warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products or services that they would not ordinarily bring in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation against the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty raising additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms and there can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. We rely on access to both short- and long-term capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations. While we anticipate that our current cash resources, cash generated through our operations, and cash proceeds from our January 2010 common stock offering will be adequate to meet our liquidity needs for at least the next twelve months, we do not have any significant committed sources of liquidity. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. In the absence of access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations at times when the prices for such assets are depressed. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions. Furthermore, these proceeds may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations then due. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments on our existing or future debt obligations and fund operations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. While we have repaid approximately $19.1 million in outstanding indebtedness to Bank of America and Investors Community Bank in January 2010, and we believe we will continue to have sufficient cash flows to operate our businesses, there can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to pay our remaining indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation or required to substantially restructure or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if our current 15 Table of Contents sources of financing are reduced or unavailable, we will likely be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate our plans for expansion and growth and this could affect our overall operations. Growth and diversification through acquisitions and internal expansion may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance. To execute our business strategy, we may seek to acquire new businesses. We may not be able to identify appropriate acquisition candidates or successfully negotiate, finance or integrate acquisitions. If we are unable to make acquisitions, we may be unable to realize the growth we anticipate. Future acquisitions could involve numerous risks including difficulties in integrating the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired business, and the potential loss of key employees, customers and suppliers of the acquired business. If we are unable to successfully manage these acquisition risks, future earnings may be adversely affected. We may also grow our existing business through increased production levels at existing facilities and through expansion to new manufacturing facilities and locations, such as the tower manufacturing facility in Abilene, Texas that we completed in January 2009 and our constructed but not yet operational tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota. In addition, we intend to utilize funds raised in our recently completed equity offering to establish a MW gearbox test stand and refurbishment facility during 2010. Such expansion and any future expansion will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems and equipment, and property. Difficulties or delays in acquiring and effectively integrating any new facilities may adversely affect future performance. For example, we recorded higher costs in 2008 to handle a higher volume of orders, and in 2009 in connection with the startup of production at our Abilene facility. Moreover, if our expansion efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected. We face competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. In addition, we may face competition from our customers as they seek to be more vertically integrated and offer full service packages. Some of our customers are also performing more services themselves. We have generated net losses and negative cash flows since our inception. We have experienced operating losses, as well as net losses, for each of the years during which we have operated. In addition, in light of current economic conditions, we anticipate that losses and negative cash flow are possible for the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses and there is no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products and services, no assurance can be given that these products can be sold on a profitable basis. If we achieve profitability, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. 16 Table of Contents We may not be able to effectively utilize the additional production capacity at our new wind tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota. We recently completed construction of a third wind tower manufacturing facility in Brandon, South Dakota and we anticipate that the facility will become operational as business warrants and pending the installation of certain additional equipment. If there is insufficient market demand for the towers we intend to produce at this facility, it could be difficult or impossible for us to operate the facility in a profitable or cost-effective manner. If we elected not to commence operations at the facility, we would continue to incur significant fixed costs associated with ownership of the facility, and there can be no assurance that we would be able to sell or otherwise dispose of the facility on terms deemed to be commercially reasonable by us if we sought to do so in the future. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be materially adversely affected if we are required to take additional write downs to the carrying value of goodwill or intangible assets associated with any of our operating segments in the future. We review our goodwill balances for impairment on at least an annual basis through the application of a fair-value-based test. We perform our review of goodwill based on the carrying value of these assets as of October 31 of each year and the estimate of fair-value for each of our operating segments is based primarily on projected future results, cash flows and other assumptions. The first step involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. In performing the first step, we determine the fair value of our reporting units using a combination of an income approach by preparing a discounted cash flow analysis and a market-based approach based on our market capitalization. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not necessary. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then the second step of the goodwill impairment test must be performed. The second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill with its carrying amount to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. As a result, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is allocated to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including any unrecognized intangible assets) as if the reporting unit had been acquired in a business combination and the fair value of the reporting unit was the purchase price paid. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit's goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess. We did not identify a triggering event during 2009 which would require an early assessment of impairment, however, in connection with our annual goodwill impairment analysis as of October 31, 2009 which was completed in March 2010, we determined that the goodwill balance attributable to our Gearing segment was impaired due to a deterioration in financial performance during 2009 and as a result of the subsequent fourth quarter revision in our projection of future operating results and cash flows in light of the continued economic downturn on the wind gearing industry. We review our intangible assets and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset's carrying amount may not be recoverable. Due to the revision in our projections of operating results and cash flows within our Gearing segment, we deemed this a triggering event, and subsequently tested all of our intangible assets for impairment. The completion of our impairment analysis during February 2010 indicated that the customer relationship intangibles associated with our Gearing segment were impaired as a result of a decline in projected future operating results. The decline in our estimates of future operating results and corresponding discounted cash flows indicated that the fair value of these customer relationships was less than the carrying value of these assets. Additionally, we determined that the carrying value of our RBA trade name was impaired as a result of the merger of RBA's operations into our Towers segment in 17 Table of Contents December 2009 and that RBA's customer relationship intangible was impaired due to a revision in projected revenues and cash flows associated with this customer relationship. Accordingly, we recorded goodwill and intangible impairment charges of $24.3 million and $57.9 million, respectively. In the future, if our projected discounted cash flows associated with our operating segments do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record additional write downs of the carrying value of goodwill, intangible assets or other long-lived assets associated with any of our operating segments and our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. As of December 31, 2009, our goodwill and intangible balances were $9.7 million and $37.2 million, respectively. The 2008-2009 recession has impacted our financial results and has reduced near-term purchases from certain of our key customers and may continue to do so in the future. We may determine that our expectations of future financial results and cash flows from one or more of our businesses has decreased or a decrease in our stock valuation may occur, which could result in a review of our goodwill and intangible assets associated with these businesses. Since a large portion of the value of our intangibles has been ascribed to projected revenues from certain key customers, a change in our expectation of future cash from one or more of these customers could indicate potential impairment to the carrying value of our assets. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in our production process and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for items such as steel, the primary raw material used by us, has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we have generally incorporated price adjustment clauses in our sales contracts. However, limitations on availability of raw materials or increases in the cost of raw materials (including steel), energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results if our manufacturing businesses are not able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases to their respective customers. Alternatively, we will not realize material improvements from declines in steel prices as the terms of many of our contracts provide that we pass through these costs to our customers. In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by such events as natural disasters, power outages and the effect of labor strikes. In the event of significant increases or decreases in the price of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may be adversely affected. We have made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the U.S. wind energy market. The expansion of our internal manufacturing capabilities has required significant up-front fixed costs. If market demand for our products does not increase as quickly as we have anticipated and align with our expanded manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and to achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of high operating expenses, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. Alternatively, if we experience rapid demand for our products in excess of our estimates, our installed capital equipment and existing workforce may be insufficient to support higher production volumes, which could harm our customer relationships and overall reputation. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products or to the demand for new 18 Table of Contents products requested by our customers, and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations. If our estimates for warranty expenses differ materially from actual claims made, or if we are unable to reasonably estimate future warranty expense for our products and services, our business and financial results could be negatively affected. We provide warranty terms generally ranging between two and seven years to our tower and gearing customers depending upon the specific product and terms of the customer purchase agreement. We reserve for warranty claims based on industry experience and estimates made by management based upon a percentage of our product sales revenues. From time to time, customers have submitted warranty claims against us. However, we have a limited history on which to base our warranty estimates for certain products which we manufacture. Our assumptions could be materially different from the actual performance of our products in the future and could exceed the levels against which we have reserved. In some instances our customers have interpreted the scope and coverage of certain of our warranty provisions differently from our interpretation of such provisions. The expenses associated with remediation activities in the wind energy industry can be substantial and if we are required to pay such costs in connection with a customer's warranty claim we could be subject to additional unplanned cash expenditures. If our estimates prove materially incorrect, or if we are required to cover remediation expenses in addition to our regular warranty coverage, we could be required to accrue additional expenses and could face a material unplanned cash expenditure, which could harm our financial and operating results. Material weaknesses or other deficiencies in our internal controls over financial reporting, including potential failure to prevent or detect errors or fraud, could affect the accuracy of our reported financial results. Management identified a material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting in 2009, relating to non-routine revenue transactions, as referenced in Item 9A, "Controls and Procedures" of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Internal control weaknesses or deficiencies may continue to affect our ability to close our financial reporting on a timely basis or report accurate numbers. In addition, acquisitions of companies lacking sufficient financial and internal control expertise may affect our ability to comply with public company reporting requirements in the future, including meeting filing deadlines established by the SEC, and ensuring that our Company-wide controls and procedures are adequate to provide financial information in a timely and reliable matter. We may incur substantial additional costs to bring acquired companies' systems into compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended ("Sarbanes-Oxley"). Our ability to attract and retain qualified financial experts will also impact our ability to comply with financial reporting and Sarbanes-Oxley regulations. If we are not able to maintain the requirements of Section 404 of Sarbanes-Oxley in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities. This type of action could adversely affect our financial results or investors' confidence in our company and our ability to access capital markets and could cause our stock price to decline. Trade restrictions may present barriers to entry in certain international markets. Restrictions on trade with certain international markets could affect our ability to expand into those markets. In addition, the existence of government subsidies available to our competitors in certain countries may affect our ability to compete on a price basis. 19 Table of Contents We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine component manufacturing. The global market for wind turbines is rapidly evolving technologically. Our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, our net worth, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect our future success. We are dependent on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce at our Cicero and Neville Island gearing facilities. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike, or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Collective bargaining agreements have been ratified by collective bargaining units in place at our Cicero and Neville Island facilities and expire in October 2012 and February 2014, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, our collective bargaining units represented approximately 21% of our workforce. We need to hire additional qualified personnel, including management personnel, and the loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and key personnel throughout our organization. During 2010, we will likely need to hire additional personnel, including management personnel, to fill in our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success and our current level of controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all such requirements. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we may be or become subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. There can be no guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with such standards and requirements. We continue to develop our internal controls with a goal of providing a greater degree of certainty that our businesses are in compliance with applicable governmental and regulatory requirements, but our current level of internal control may fail to reveal to us material instances of non-compliance with such requirements, and such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. 20 Table of Contents Our principal stockholder holds a large percentage of our common stock and influences our affairs significantly. Tontine Capital Partners, L.P. ("TCP"), Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund, L.P. ("TMF"), Tontine Partners, L.P. ("TP"), Tontine Overseas Fund, Ltd. ("TOF"), Tontine 25 Overseas Master Fund, L.P. ("T25"), TCP Overseas Master Fund II, L.P. ("TCP2" and collectively with TP, TOF, TCP, TMF, T25 and their affiliates, "Tontine") owned approximately 47.7% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009 and owns approximately 37.5% of our common stock after completion of our equity offering in January 2010. Tontine has, and will continue to have the right to designate three individuals on our Board of Directors pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement entered into with Broadwind in August 2007. As a result, Tontine has, and will continue to have, the voting power to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. Tontine's significant ownership level may have the effect of delaying, deterring, or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. Tontine and its affiliates may invest in entities that directly or indirectly compete with us or companies in which they currently invest may begin competing with us. As a result of these relationships, when conflicts between the interests of Tontine and the interests of our other stockholders arise, the Tontine-designated directors may have conflicts of interest. Although our directors and officers will have a duty of loyalty to us under Delaware law and our certificate of incorporation, transactions that we enter into in which a director or officer has a conflict of interest are generally permissible, if done in compliance with Delaware law. The actions of Tontine may have the effect of influencing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. We may not have the technical expertise and we may be unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to successfully market new products that we may develop. A key element of our business and operating strategy is to exploit our technological ability to design new manufacturing processes and products to take advantage of the anticipated growth in the North American wind market. Historically, we have not developed patented technology or engaged in technical design work on a significant scale. If we are unable to develop new manufacturing processes and products that are attractive to our customers and potential customers, or if we are unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to prevent our competitors from developing and marketing substantially similar products, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We cannot insure against all potential risks and may have difficulty insuring our business activities or become subject to increased insurance premiums. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including inherent risks associated with manufacturing, heavy-haul transport, and service and construction support for wind turbines. To mitigate the risks associated with our business, we have obtained various insurance policies. However, our insurance policies have high deductibles in certain instances and do not cover losses as a result of certain events such as terrorist attacks. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to annual review by our insurers and these policies may not be renewed at all or on similar or favorable terms. If we were to incur a significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the limits of our insurance policies, the results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 21 Table of Contents 