ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our businesses, and therefore our results of operations and financial condition, may continue to be adversely affected by negative economic conditions and uncertainty. The recent global recession has had negative effects on demand for alternative sources of energy and consequently for many of our product and service offerings. Although some parts of the economy have resumed growth, there remains risk that this limited recovery may not be sustained, that the recovery may not include the industries or markets in which we conduct our business, or that the economy may revert to further contraction and corresponding uncertainty and volatility. Any deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business in a number of ways, including lower sales and extended renewal cycles if there is a reduction in demand for wind energy, and such deterioration could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. In particular, risks we might face could include potential declines in revenues in our business segments due to reduced orders or other factors caused by economic challenges faced by our customers and prospective customers, and an inability to finance our operating needs on reasonable terms. The U.S. wind industry is reliant on tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. We supply products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The U.S. wind industry is dependent in part upon federal tax incentives and state renewable portfolio standards and may not be economically viable in its current form absent such incentives. The federal government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including a federal production tax credit, an investment tax credit and cash grant equal in value to the investment tax credit. The production tax credit was extended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act ("ARRA") in February 2009 and provides the owner of a qualifying wind energy facility placed in service before the end of 2012 with a ten-year tax credit against the owner's federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity generated by the qualifying wind energy facility and sold to unrelated third parties. Alternatively, wind project owners (i) may elect to receive an investment tax credit equal to 30% of the qualifying basis of facilities placed in service before the end of 2012 or (ii) for facilities placed in service in 2009 through 2011 (or, if construction began before the end of 2011, placed in service before the end of 2012), could have applied to receive a cash grant from the Department of Treasury, equal in value to the investment tax credit. These programs, many of which expire at the end of 2012, provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services. The increased demand for our products and services that generally results from the credits and incentives has been impacted by the pending expiration of these programs at the end of 2012. Because of the long lead times necessary to develop wind energy projects, the failure of Congress to extend or renew these incentives beyond their current expiration dates in 2012 has already negatively impacted potential wind energy installations planned for 2013. The failure to immediately renew or extend these incentives will likely further delay the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers, gearing and related components. It is possible that these federal incentives will not be extended beyond their current expiration dates. Although we believe that the production tax credit may be renewed or extended in 2012 or 2013, the duration thereof and whether such extension or renewal will be retroactive is unclear. Moreover, we currently believe it is unlikely that the investment tax credit and cash grant program will be renewed or extended in 2012 or 2013. The continued delay or failure to extend or renew these or similar incentives in the future could have a 9 Table of Contents material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. State renewable energy portfolio standards generally require or encourage state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. Typically, utilities comply with such standards by qualifying for renewable energy credits evidencing the share of electricity that was produced from renewable sources. Under many state standards, these renewable energy credits can be unbundled from their associated energy and traded in a market system, allowing generators with insufficient credits to meet their applicable state mandate. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured products. Currently, the majority of states and the District of Colombia have renewable energy portfolio standards in place and certain states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of renewable energy portfolio standards in additional states or any changes to existing renewable energy portfolio standards (including changes due to the failure to renew or extend the federal incentives described above), or the enactment of a federal renewable energy portfolio standard or imposition of other greenhouse gas regulations, may impact the demand for our products and services. We cannot assure that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. Our diversification outside of the wind energy market exposes us to business risks associated with the oil and gas and mining industries, among others, which may slow our growth or penetration in these markets. While we have some experience in the oil and gas and mining markets through our gearing and specialty weldments businesses, these industries have not been our primary focus. In further diversifying our business to serve these markets we will face competitors who may have more resources, longer operating histories and more well-established relationships than we do, and we may not be able to successfully or profitably generate additional business opportunities in these industries. Moreover, if we are able to successfully diversify into these markets our business may be exposed to risks associated with these industries, which could adversely affect our future earnings and growth. These risks include, among other things: •the prices and relative demand for oil, gas, minerals and other commodities; •domestic and global political and economic conditions affecting the oil and gas and mining industries; •changes in oil and gas and mining technology; •the price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources, as well as changes in energy consumption or supply; and •federal, state and local regulations, including, among others, regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and greenhouse gas emissions. We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products governing, among other things, health, safety, pollution and protection of the environment and natural resources, including the use, handling, transportation, and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous materials and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil, 10 Table of Contents product content, performance and packaging. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will at all times be in compliance with such laws and regulations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, obtain the necessary permits to operate our business, or comply with the terms and conditions of such permits may subject us to a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, monetary fines and penalties, remedial obligations, and the issuance of compliance requirements limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of currently and formerly owned, leased or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operators at our current or former facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. Many of our facilities have a history of industrial operations, and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. The presence of contamination from hazardous substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. We also could be held liable under third-party claims for property damage, natural resource damage, or personal injury and for penalties and other damages under such environmental laws and regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are aware of an investigation commenced by the United States Attorney's Office, Northern District of Illinois, for potential violation of federal environmental laws. On February 15, 2011, pursuant to a search warrant, officials from the United States Environmental Protection Agency ("USEPA") entered and conducted a search of one of our facilities in Cicero, Illinois, in connection with the alleged improper disposal of industrial wastewater to the sewer. On or about February 11, 2011, in connection with the same matter, we received a grand jury subpoena requesting testimony and the production of certain documents relating to the facility's past compliance with certain environmental laws and regulations relating to the generation, discharge and disposal of wastewater from certain of our processes between 2004 and the present. On or about February 23, 2011, we received another grand jury subpoena relating to the same investigation, requesting testimony and the production of certain other documents relating to certain of the facility's employees, environmental and manufacturing processes, and disposal practices. We have produced e-mails, reports and correspondence as requested in response to these subpoenas. We have also voluntarily instituted corrective measures at the facility, including changes to our wastewater disposal practices. There can be no assurances that the conclusion of the investigation will not result in a determination that we have violated applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. Any violations found, or any criminal or civil fines, penalties and/or other sanctions imposed could be substantial and materially and adversely affect us. The assertion of further claims relating to regulatory compliance, on or off-site contamination, natural resource damage, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities, the imposition of criminal or civil fines or penalties, or the obligation to undertake investigation, remediation or monitoring activities could result in potentially significant costs and expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Changes in existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or their application, could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. 11 Table of Contents Our financial and operating performance is subject to certain factors which are out of our control, including prevailing economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in North America. As a supplier of products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities, our results of operations (like those of our customers) are subject to general economic conditions, and specifically, to the state of the wind energy market. In addition to the state and federal government policies supporting renewable energy described above, the growth and development of the larger wind energy market in North America is subject to a number of factors, including, among other things: •the availability of financing for the estimated pipeline of wind development projects; •the cost of electricity, which may be affected by a number of factors, including government regulation, power transmission, seasonality, fluctuations in demand, and the cost and availability of fuel and particularly natural gas; •the development of new power generating technology or advances in existing technology or discovery of power generating natural resources; •the development of electrical transmission infrastructure; •state and federal laws and regulations, particularly those favoring low carbon energy generation alternatives; •administrative and legal challenges to proposed wind development projects; and •public perception and localized community responses to wind energy projects. In addition, while some of the factors listed above may only affect individual wind project developments or portions of the market, in the aggregate they may have a significant effect on the successful development of the wind energy market as a whole, and thus affect our operating and financial results. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers. The wind turbine market in the U.S. is very concentrated, with ten manufacturers controlling in excess of 99% of the market. Like us, these customers were adversely affected by the recent downturn in the economy and the wind energy market, and we have seen, and may continue to see, a decrease in order volume from such customers. Historically, the majority of our revenues are highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2011, two customers—Gamesa and Goldwind—each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues and our five largest customers accounted for 76% of our consolidated revenues. Our customers periodically have expressed their intent to scale back, delay or restructure existing customer agreements, which has led to reduced revenues from these customers and which may occur again in the future. As a result, our operating profits and gross margins have been negatively affected by a decline in production levels, which has created production volume inefficiencies in our operations and cost structures. Additionally, if our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which would materially adversely affect our results. We could be adversely impacted by decreased customer demand for our products and services due to (1) the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, (2) our customers' loss of market share to competitors of theirs that do not use our products, and (3) our loss of market share with our customers. We could lose market share with our customers to competitors or to our customers themselves, should they decide to become more vertically integrated and produce our products or deliver the services we provide internally. Finally, 12 Table of Contents most of our customers do not purchase all of our products and services, so if some of our customers gain market share, it could impact our mix of products and services among our segments. In addition, even if our customers continue to do business with us, we can be adversely affected by a number of other potential developments with our customers. For example: •our customers may not comply with their contractual payment or volume obligations. The inability or failure of our customers to meet their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations; •our customers have in the past sought, and in the future may seek, to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. For example, some customers have sought payments from us for claims despite contractual limits that preclude our obligation to make payments for such claims; •if we are unable to deliver products to our customers in accordance with an agreed upon schedule we may become subject to liquidated damages provisions in our supply agreements for the period of time we are unable to produce finished products. Although the liquidated damages provisions are generally capped at certain levels, they can become significant and may have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial results; •although our subsidiary companies operate independently, a dispute between a significant customer and us or one of our subsidiaries could have a negative effect on the business relationship we have with that customer across our entire organization. Among other things, such a dispute could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of our subsidiaries that are otherwise not related to such dispute; and •a material change in payment terms for accounts receivable of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash flows. Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the economy and in the wind energy market. Current market disruptions and regular market volatility may have adverse impacts on our customers' ability to pay when due the amounts payable to us and could cause related increases in our working capital or borrowing needs. In addition, our customers have in the past attempted and may attempt in the future to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. Our backlog is significant, but we cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of our backlog that we will ultimately ship to our customers. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers asserting warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products or services that they would not ordinarily assert in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation against the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms and there can be no assurances that our operations will generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. We rely on banks and capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations or asset sales. We have experienced operating losses for each of the years during which we have operated and we anticipate that we will incur additional expenses in the 13 Table of Contents near term in connection with our contemplated restructuring efforts. We expect to fund our facility restructuring efforts in part by using proceeds from the sale of surplus assets. We may be unable to complete these sales on a timely basis, and our committed sources of liquidity may be inadequate to satisfy our operational and restructuring needs. There can be no assurances that our restructuring efforts will be successful in improving our profitability. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. Additionally, we have a limited number of shares of common stock authorized for issuance under our certificate of incorporation after the consummation of our stock offering in the third quarter of 2011; accordingly, our ability to raise capital through future equity issuances may be restricted unless we are successful in increasing the number of authorized shares of common stock, which would require the approval of holders of a majority of our outstanding shares. In the absence of access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations at times when the prices for such assets are depressed. In such event, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions. Furthermore, the proceeds of any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments on our existing or future debt obligations and fund operations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to pay our remaining indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable which could force us to liquidate certain assets or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if our current sources of financing are reduced or unavailable, we will likely be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate our plans for restructuring and expansion and this could affect our overall operations. Our plans for growth and diversification may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance. In 2011, approximately 73% of our revenue was derived through the sale of our products and services tied to new wind energy installations in the U.S. While we anticipate that economic conditions within the wind industry may be strong in the second and third quarters of 2012, we can provide no assurances that long-term improved market conditions within the wind industry will occur or that we will be able to capitalize on these opportunities. Moreover, the failure to immediately extend or renew the federal production tax credit or other federal incentive programs will likely have a material adverse impact on our wind energy business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. A continued or prolonged economic slowdown in the wind industry or other unfavorable market factors could result in further revisions to our expectations with respect to future financial results and cash flows. In response to these conditions, we have made a strategic decision to diversify our business further into oil, gas, mining, and other industries, particularly within our gearing and specialty weldments businesses. While we have historically participated in these lines of business, there is no assurance that we will be able to grow our presence in these businesses at a rate sufficient to compensate for a potentially weaker wind energy market. Moreover, our participation in these markets may require additional investments in personnel, equipment and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to further penetrate these markets, our plans to diversify our operations may not be successful and our anticipated future growth may be adversely affected. We may also grow our existing business through increased production levels at existing facilities and through expansion to new manufacturing facilities and locations, such as our recently completed drivetrain service center in Abilene, Texas. Such expansion and any future expansion will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating 14 Table of Contents infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems and equipment, and property. Difficulties or delays in acquiring and effectively integrating any new facilities may adversely affect future performance. For example, we recorded higher costs in 2009 in connection with the startup of production at our Abilene, Texas tower manufacturing facility. Moreover, if our expansion efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected. We face competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. In addition, we may face competition from our customers as they seek to be more vertically integrated and offer full service packages. Some of our customers are also performing more services themselves. We have generated net losses and negative cash flows since our inception. We have experienced operating losses for each of the years during which we have operated. In addition, in light of current economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in the U.S., we anticipate that losses and periods of negative cash flow may occur in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses, and there is no assurance that we will achieve sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products and services, no assurance can be given that these products and services can be sold on a profitable basis. If we achieve profitability, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses may negatively affect our financial results. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating losses. To the extent available, we will use any net operating loss carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. However, if we do not achieve profitability prior to their expiration, we will not be able to fully utilize our net operating losses to offset income. For financial statement presentation, all benefits associated with the loss carryforwards have been reserved. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended ("the IRC"), generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of net operating loss carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone certain changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses may be limited, under this section or otherwise, by our issuance of common stock or by other changes in stock ownership. Upon completion of our analysis of IRC Section 382, we have determined that aggregate changes in our stock ownership have triggered an annual limitation of net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses available for utilization. Although this event limits the amount of pre-ownership change date net operating losses and built-in losses we can utilize annually, it would not preclude us from fully utilizing our current carryforwards prior to their expiration. To the extent our use of net operating loss carryforwards and associated built-in losses is significantly limited in the future due to additional changes in stock ownership, our income could be subject to U.S. 15 Table of Contents corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use net operating loss carryforwards and built-in losses without annual limitation, which could result in lower profits and the loss of benefits from these attributes. Our future operating results and the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected if we are required to take additional write-downs to the carrying value of long-lived assets associated with any of our operating segments in the future. We review our long-lived assets, including intangibles, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amounts of these assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability is measured by a comparison of the assets' carrying amount to their expected future undiscounted net cash flows. If such assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured based on the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. In the future, if our projected undiscounted cash flows associated with our operating segments do not exceed the carrying value of their net assets, we may be required to record additional write-downs of the carrying value of intangible assets or other long-lived assets associated with such operating segments and our operating results and the market price of our common stock may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in our production process, and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for items such as steel, the primary raw material used by us, have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we have generally incorporated price adjustment clauses in our sales contracts. However, limitations on availability of raw materials or increases in the cost of raw materials (including steel), energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results if our manufacturing businesses are not able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases to their respective customers. Alternatively, we will not realize material improvements from declines in steel prices as the terms of many of our contracts require that we pass through these cost savings to our customers. In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by such events as natural disasters, power outages and labor strikes. In the event of significant increases or decreases in the price of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products and services are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may be adversely affected. We have previously made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the U.S. wind energy market. However, the growth in the U.S. wind energy market has not kept pace with the expectations we had when some of these capital investments were made, and there can be no assurance that the U.S. wind energy market will grow and develop in a manner consistent with our past expectations, or that we will be able to fill our idle capacity through the further diversification of our operations. The expansion of our internal manufacturing and service capabilities has required significant up-front fixed costs. If market demand for our products and services does not increase at the pace we have anticipated and align with our expanded manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and to achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of high fixed costs, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. In light of these considerations, we may be forced to temporarily idle existing capacity or sell to third 16 Table of Contents parties manufacturing capacity that we cannot utilize in the near term. Alternatively, if we experience rapid demand for our products and services in excess of our estimates, or we have reduced our manufacturing capacity, our installed capital equipment and existing workforce may be insufficient to support higher production volumes, which could harm our customer relationships and overall reputation. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a timely manner, procure adequate resources, or locate suitable third-party suppliers, to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products and services requested by our customers, and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations. If our estimates for warranty expenses differ materially from actual claims made, or if we are unable to reasonably estimate future warranty expense for our products and services, our business and financial results could be negatively affected. We provide warranty terms generally ranging between one and seven years to our tower, gearing and services customers depending upon the specific product or service and terms of the customer agreement. We reserve for warranty claims based on industry experience and estimates made by management based upon a percentage of our sales revenues related to such products or services. From time to time, customers have submitted warranty claims to us. However, we have a limited history on which to base our warranty estimates for certain products that we manufacture and services that we provide. Our assumptions could be materially different from the actual performance of our products in the future and could exceed the levels against which we have reserved. In some instances our customers have interpreted the scope and coverage of certain of our warranty provisions differently from our interpretation of such provisions. The expenses associated with remediation activities in the wind energy industry can be substantial, and if we are required to pay such costs in connection with a customer's warranty claim we could be subject to additional unplanned cash expenditures. If our estimates prove materially incorrect, or if we are required to cover remediation expenses in addition to our regular warranty coverage, we could be required to incur additional expenses and could face a material unplanned cash expenditure, which could harm our financial and operating results. Trade restrictions may present barriers to entry in certain international markets. Restrictions on trade with certain international markets could affect our ability to expand into those markets. In addition, the existence of government subsidies available to our competitors in certain countries may affect our ability to compete on a price basis. We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine component and other industrial manufacturing. The global market for wind turbines, as well as for other industrial components we manufacture, is rapidly evolving technologically. Our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. For example, some wind turbine manufacturers are using wind turbine towers made from concrete instead of steel. Other wind turbine designs have reduced the use of gearing or eliminated the gearbox entirely through the use of direct or compact drive technologies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, our net worth, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. 17 Table of Contents We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect our future success. We are dependent on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce at our Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania gearing facilities. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike, or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. Collective bargaining agreements have been ratified by collective bargaining units in place at our Cicero and Neville Island facilities and expire in February 2014 and October 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2011, our collective bargaining units represented approximately 23% of our workforce. We need to hire additional qualified personnel, including management personnel, and the loss of our key personnel could harm our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and key personnel throughout our organization. During the remainder of 2012, we will likely need to hire additional personnel, including management, engineering and sales personnel, to fill in our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave our company and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, or financial condition. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success and our current level of controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all such requirements. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we may be or become subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. There can be no guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with such standards and requirements. We continue to develop our internal controls with a goal of providing a greater degree of certainty that our businesses are in compliance with applicable governmental and regulatory requirements, but our current level of internal control may fail to reveal to us material instances of non-compliance with such requirements, and such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Certain stockholders have the ability to influence our affairs significantly. Tontine Capital Management, L.L.C. ("TCM"), Tontine Capital Overseas GP, L.L.C. ("TCO"), Tontine Management, L.L.C. ("TM"), Tontine Overseas Associates, L.L.C. ("TOA"), Tontine Capital Overseas Master Fund II, L.P. ("TCP II"), Tontine Assets Associates, L.L.C. ("TAA"), Tontine Power Partners, L.P. ("TPP") and Tontine Associates, L.L.C. ("TA", and collectively with TCM, TCO, TM, TOA, TCP II, TAA and TPP and their affiliates, "Tontine") owns approximately 12.7% of our outstanding common stock. Although Tontine currently does not have any representatives on our Board of Directors, Tontine has, and for so long as they hold at least 10% of our then issued and outstanding 18 Table of Contents common stock will continue to have, the right to designate two individuals on our Board of Directors pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement entered into with Broadwind in August 2007. As a result, Tontine may have the ability to significantly influence our policies, business and affairs, and the outcome of any corporate transaction or other matter, including mergers, consolidations and the sale of all, or substantially all, of our assets. Tontine's significant ownership level may have the effect of delaying, deterring or preventing a change in control that otherwise could result in a premium in the price of our common stock. In addition, the actions of Tontine may have the effect of influencing changes in control or changes in management, or limiting the ability of our other stockholders to approve transactions that they may deem to be in their best interest. In addition, Special Situations Fund III QP, L.P. ("SSFQP"), Special Situations Cayman Fund, L.P. ("SSF Cayman"), Special Situations Technology Fund, L.P. ("SSFTF"), and Special Situations Technology Fund II, L.P. ("SSFTF II," and collectively with SSFQP, SSF Cayman, and SSFTF and their affiliates, "SSF"), owns approximately 22% of our outstanding common stock. As a result of such ownership, SSF may be able to influence certain matters which are subject to stockholder action. We may not have the technical expertise and we may be unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to successfully market new products that we may develop. A key element of our business and operating strategy is to exploit our technological ability to design new manufacturing and service processes and products to take advantage of the anticipated growth in the North American wind market. Historically, we have not developed patented technology or engaged in technical design work on a significant scale. If we are unable to develop new manufacturing and service processes and products that are attractive to our customers and potential customers, or if we are unable to secure the necessary patents or other intellectual property rights needed to prevent our competitors from developing and marketing substantially similar products, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Current or future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on us. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. We are currently defendants in a number of litigation matters and the subject of an investigation by the SEC as further described under the heading "Legal Proceedings" in this report. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits, investigations or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we are required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in certain proceedings. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. We cannot insure against all potential risks and may have difficulty insuring our business activities or become subject to increased insurance premiums. Our business is subject to a number of risks, including inherent risks associated with manufacturing and service and construction support for wind turbines. To mitigate the risks associated with our business, we have obtained various insurance policies. However, our insurance policies have high deductibles in certain instances and do not cover losses as a result of certain events. In addition, our insurance policies are subject to annual review by our insurers and these policies may not be renewed 19 Table of Contents at all or on similar or favorable terms. If we were to incur a significant uninsured loss or a loss in excess of the limits of our insurance policies, the results could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may fail to meet continued listing requirements with NASDAQ. We must comply with numerous NASDAQ Marketplace rules in order to maintain the listing of our common stock, which includes maintaining a minimum closing bid price of at least $1.00 per share for our common stock. On September 19, 2011, we received a notification letter from NASDAQ advising us that for 30 consecutive trading days preceding the date of the notice, the bid price of our common stock had closed below the $1.00 per share minimum required for continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Select Market pursuant to NASDAQ's minimum bid price rule. The notice has no effect on the listing of our common stock at this time and our common stock will continue to trade on the NASDAQ under the symbol "BWEN". The notice also stated that we will be provided 180 calendar days, or until March 19, 2012, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. In December 2011, we changed the listing of our common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market to the NASDAQ Capital Market. In February 2012, we requested from the NASDAQ Capital Market an additional 180 day period to regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule. Provided that we meet all applicable standards for initial listing on the NASDAQ Capital Market (with the exception of the minimum bid price rule), we believe we will be granted an additional 180 calendar days, or until September 15, 2012, to regain compliance. To regain compliance with the minimum bid price rule, the bid price of our common stock must close at or above $1.00 per share for a minimum of ten consecutive trading days. If compliance with the minimum bid price rule cannot be demonstrated by September 15, 2012, or, if we do not receive the 180 calendar day compliance period extension, NASDAQ will provide a written notification to us that our common stock is subject to delisting. We intend to continue to monitor the bid price for our common stock. If our common stock does not trade at a level that is likely to regain compliance with the NASDAQ requirements, our Board of Directors will consider other options that may be available to achieve compliance, including, but not limited to, seeking implementation of a reverse stock split, which would require approval of our stockholders. There can be no assurance that we would be successful in obtaining the approvals necessary to effect a reverse stock split or that, following any reverse stock split, the per share price of our common stock would remain above $1.00 per share. If we are unable to regain compliance, our common stock will be delisted by NASDAQ. If we were to be delisted from NASDAQ, our common stock could be subject to "penny stock" rules which could negatively impact our liquidity and our stockholders' ability to sell their shares. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 20 Table of Contents 