ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The U.S. wind energy industry is reliant in part on tax and other economic incentives and political and governmental policies. A significant change in these incentives and policies could negatively impact our results of operations and growth. More generally, our financial and operating performance is subject to certain factors which are out of our control, including the state of the wind energy market in North America. We supply products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities. The U.S. wind energy industry is dependent in part upon federal tax incentives and state RPSs and may not be economically viable in its current form absent such incentives. The federal government provides economic incentives to the owners of wind energy facilities, including the PTC, an investment tax credit ("ITC") and cash grant equal in value to the ITC. The PTC was extended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act in February 2009, and further extended by the American Taxpayer Relief Act in January 2013. It provides the owner of a qualifying wind energy facility under construction before the end of 2013 with a ten-year tax credit against the owner's federal income tax obligations based on the amount of electricity generated by the qualifying wind energy facility and sold to unrelated third parties. These programs provide material incentives to develop wind energy generation facilities and thereby impact the demand for our manufactured products and services. The increased demand for our products and services that generally results from the credits and incentives could be impacted by the impending expiration of these programs. Because of the long lead times necessary to develop wind energy projects, any delay by Congress in extending or renewing these incentives beyond their impending expiration dates could negatively impact potential wind energy installations. The failure to further renew or extend these incentives would likely inhibit the development of wind energy generation facilities and the demand for wind turbines, towers, gearing and related components. It is possible that these federal incentives will not be extended beyond their current expiration dates. The delay or failure to extend or renew these or similar incentives in the future could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. State RPSs generally require or encourage state-regulated electric utilities to supply a certain proportion of electricity from renewable energy sources or devote a certain portion of their plant capacity to renewable energy generation. Typically, utilities comply with such standards by qualifying for 9 Table of Contents renewable energy credits evidencing the share of electricity that was produced from renewable sources. Under many state standards, these renewable energy credits can be unbundled from their associated energy and traded in a market system, allowing generators with insufficient credits to meet their applicable state mandate. These standards have spurred significant growth in the wind energy industry and a corresponding increase in the demand for our manufactured products. Currently, the majority of states and the District of Colombia have RPSs in place and certain states have voluntary utility commitments to supply a specific percentage of their electricity from renewable sources. The enactment of RPSs in additional states or any changes to existing RPSs (including changes due to the failure to renew or extend the federal incentives described above), or the enactment of a federal RPS or imposition of other greenhouse gas regulations, may impact the demand for our products and services. We cannot assure that government support for renewable energy will continue. The elimination of, or reduction in, state or federal government policies that support renewable energy could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial performance and future development efforts. As a supplier of products and services to wind turbine manufacturers and owners and operators of wind energy generation facilities, our results of operations (like those of our customers) are subject to general economic conditions, and specifically to the state of the wind energy market. In addition to the state and federal government policies supporting renewable energy described above, the growth and development of the larger wind energy market in North America is subject to a number of factors, including, among other things: •the availability of financing for the estimated pipeline of wind development projects; •the cost of electricity, which may be affected by a number of factors, including government regulation, power transmission, seasonality, fluctuations in demand, and the cost and availability of fuel and particularly natural gas; •the general demand for electricity or "load growth"; •the development of new power generating technology or advances in existing technology or discovery of power generating natural resources; •the development of electrical transmission infrastructure; •state and federal laws and regulations regarding avian protection plans and noise or turbine setback requirements; •state and federal laws and regulations, particularly those favoring low carbon energy generation alternatives; •administrative and legal challenges to proposed wind development projects; and •public perception and localized community responses to wind energy projects. In addition, while some of the factors listed above may only affect individual wind project developments or portions of the market, in the aggregate they may have a significant effect on the successful development of the wind energy market as a whole, and thus affect our operating and financial results. We are substantially dependent on a few significant customers. Historically, the majority of our revenues are highly concentrated with a limited number of customers. In 2013, two customers—Siemens and General Electric—each accounted for more than 10% of our consolidated revenues and our five largest customers accounted for 83% of our consolidated revenues. Our customers periodically have expressed their intent to scale back, delay or restructure existing customer agreements, which has led to reduced revenues from these customers and which may 10 Table of Contents occur again in the future. As a result, our operating profits and gross margins have historically been negatively affected by a decline in production levels, which has created production volume inefficiencies in our operations and cost structures. Additionally, if our relationships with significant customers should change materially, it could be difficult for us to immediately and profitably replace lost sales in a market with such concentration, which could materially adversely affect our results. We could be adversely impacted by decreased customer demand for our products and services due to (1) the impact of current or future economic conditions on our customers, (2) our customers' loss of market share to their competitors that do not use our products, and (3) our loss of market share with our customers. We could lose market share with our customers to competitors or to our customers themselves, should they decide to become more vertically integrated and produce our products or deliver the services we provide internally. In addition, even if our customers continue to do business with us, we can be adversely affected by a number of other potential developments with our customers. For example: •our customers may not comply with their contractual payment or volume obligations. The inability or failure of our customers to meet their contractual obligations could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations; •certain customer contracts provide the customer with the opportunity to cancel a substantial portion of their volume obligation by providing us with notice of such election prior to commencement of production. Such contracts generally require the customer to pay a sliding cancelation fee based on how far in advance of commencement of production such notice is provided; •our customers have in the past sought, and in the future may seek, to renegotiate the terms of current agreements or renewals. For example, some customers have sought payments from us for claims despite contractual limits that preclude our obligation to make payments for such claims; •if we are unable to deliver products to our customers in accordance with an agreed upon schedule we may become subject to liquidated damages provisions in certain supply agreements for the period of time we are unable to deliver finished products. Although the liquidated damages provisions are generally capped at certain levels, they can become significant and may have a negative impact on our liquidity and financial results; •although the Subsidiaries operate independently, a dispute between a significant customer and us or one of the Subsidiaries could have a negative effect on the business relationship we have with that customer across our entire organization. Among other things, such a dispute could lead to an overall decrease in such customer's demand for our products and services or difficulty in collecting amounts due to one or more of the Subsidiaries that are otherwise not related to such dispute; and •a material change in payment terms for A/R of a significant customer could have a material adverse effect on our short-term cash flows. We have generated net losses since our inception. We have experienced operating losses for each of the years during which we have operated. In addition, in light of current economic conditions and the state of the wind energy market in the U.S., we anticipate that losses may occur in the foreseeable future. We have incurred significant costs in connection with the development of our businesses, and there is no assurance that we will generate sufficient revenues to offset anticipated operating costs. Although we anticipate deriving revenues from the sale of our products and services, no assurance can be given that these products and services can be 11 Table of Contents sold on a profitable basis. If we achieve profitability, we cannot give any assurance that we would be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Disruptions in the supply of parts and raw materials, or changes in supplier relations, may negatively impact our operating results. We are dependent upon the supply of certain raw materials used in our production process, and these raw materials are exposed to price fluctuations on the open market. Raw material costs for items such as steel, our primary raw material, have fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate. To reduce price risk caused by market fluctuations, we have generally matched raw material purchases to our sales contracts or incorporated price adjustment clauses in our contracts. However, limitations on availability of raw materials or increases in the cost of raw materials (including steel), energy, transportation and other necessary services may impact our operating results if our manufacturing businesses are not able to fully pass on the costs associated with such increases to their respective customers. Alternatively, we will not realize material improvements from declines in steel prices as the terms of our contracts generally require that we pass through these cost savings to our customers. In addition, we may encounter supplier constraints, be unable to maintain favorable supplier arrangements and relations or be affected by disruptions in the supply chain caused by such events as natural disasters, power outages and labor strikes. In the event of significant increases or decreases in the price of raw materials, particularly steel, our margins and profitability could be negatively impacted. Our diversification outside of the wind energy market exposes us to business risks associated with the oil and gas and mining industries, among others, which may slow our growth or penetration in these markets. While we have some experience in the oil and gas and mining markets through our gearing and specialty weldments businesses, these industries have not been our primary focus. In further diversifying our business to serve these markets we will face competitors who may have more resources, longer operating histories and more well-established relationships than we do, and we may not be able to successfully or profitably generate additional business opportunities in these industries. Moreover, if we are able to successfully diversify into these markets our business may be exposed to risks associated with these industries, which could adversely affect our future earnings and growth. These risks include, among other things: •the prices and relative demand for oil, gas, minerals and other commodities; •domestic and global political and economic conditions affecting the oil, gas and mining industries; •changes in oil, gas and mining technology; •the price and availability of alternative fuels and energy sources, as well as changes in energy consumption or supply; and •federal, state and local regulations, including, among others, regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and greenhouse gas emissions. Our customers may be significantly affected by disruptions and volatility in the economy and in the wind energy market. Market disruptions and regular market volatility may have adverse impacts on our customers' ability to pay amounts payable to us and could cause related increases in our working capital or borrowing needs. In addition, our customers have in the past attempted and may attempt in the future to renegotiate the terms of contracts or reduce the size of orders with us as a result of disruptions and volatility in the markets. We cannot predict with any degree of certainty the amount of our backlog that we will ultimately ship to our customers. 12 Table of Contents Market disruptions and regular market volatility may also result in an increased likelihood of our customers asserting warranty or remediation claims in connection with our products or services that they would not ordinarily assert in a more stable economic environment. In the event of such a claim, we may incur costs if we decide to compensate the affected customer or to engage in litigation against the affected customer regarding the claim. We maintain product liability insurance, but there can be no guarantee that such insurance will be available or adequate to protect against such claims. A successful claim against us could result in a material adverse effect on our business. We may have difficulty obtaining additional financing when needed or on acceptable terms and there can be no assurances that our operations will generate cash flows in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness. We rely on banks and capital markets as a source of liquidity for capital requirements not satisfied by cash flows from operations or asset sales. We have experienced operating losses for each of the years during which we have operated and we anticipate that we will incur additional outlays in the near term in connection with our contemplated restructuring efforts. We expect to fund our facility restructuring efforts in part by using proceeds from the sale of surplus assets. We may be unable to complete these sales on a timely basis, and our committed sources of liquidity may be inadequate to satisfy our operational and restructuring needs. There can be no assurances that our restructuring efforts will be successful in improving our profitability. If we are not able to access capital at competitive rates, the ability to implement our business plans may be adversely affected. In the absence of access to capital resources, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations at times when the prices for such assets or operations are depressed. In such event, we may not be able to consummate those dispositions. Furthermore, the proceeds of any such dispositions may not be adequate to meet our debt service obligations when due. Additionally, our ability to make scheduled payments on our existing or future debt obligations and fund operations will depend on our future financial and operating performance. There can be no assurances that our operations will generate sufficient cash flows to enable us to pay our remaining indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and, as a result, among other things, our debt holders could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable which could force us to liquidate certain assets or alter our business operations or debt obligations. Moreover, if we are unable to obtain additional capital or if our current sources of financing including customer advances, are reduced or unavailable, we will likely be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate our plans for restructuring and expansion and this could affect our overall operations. In addition, raising capital in the equity capital markets could result in limitations on our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards. Our plans for growth and diversification may not be successful, and could result in poor financial performance. We have made a strategic decision to diversify our business further into oil and gas, mining, and other industries, particularly within our gearing and specialty weldments businesses. While we have historically participated in these lines of business, there is no assurance that we will be able to grow our presence in these businesses at a rate sufficient to compensate for a potentially weaker wind energy market. Moreover, our participation in these markets may require additional investments in personnel, equipment and operational infrastructure. If we are unable to further penetrate these markets, our plans to diversify our operations may not be successful and our anticipated future growth may be adversely affected. We may also grow our existing business through increased production levels at existing facilities. Such growth will require coordinated efforts across the Company and continued enhancements to our current operating infrastructure, including management and operations personnel, systems, equipment 13 Table of Contents and property. Moreover, if our efforts do not adequately predict the demand of our customers and our potential customers, our future earnings may be adversely affected. We face competition from industry participants who may have greater resources than we do. Our businesses are subject to risks associated with competition from new or existing industry participants who may have more resources and better access to capital. Many of our competitors and potential competitors may have substantially greater financial, customer support, technical and marketing resources, larger customer bases, longer operating histories, greater name recognition and more established relationships in the industry than we do. Among other things, these industry participants compete with us based upon price, quality, location and available capacity. We cannot be sure that we will have the resources or expertise to compete successfully in the future. Some of our competitors may also be able to provide customers with additional benefits at lower overall costs to increase market share. We cannot be sure that we will be able to match cost reductions by our competitors or that we will be able to succeed in the face of current or future competition. In addition, we may face competition from our customers as they seek to be more vertically integrated and offer full service packages. Some of our customers are also performing more services themselves. If our projections regarding the future market demand for our products and services are inaccurate, our operating results and our overall business may be adversely affected. We have previously made significant capital investments in anticipation of rapid growth in the U.S. wind energy market. However, the growth in the U.S. wind energy market has not kept pace with the expectations we had when some of these capital investments were made, and there can be no assurance that the U.S. wind energy market will grow and develop in a manner consistent with our expectations, or that we will be able to fill our idle capacity through the further diversification of our operations. Our internal manufacturing and service capabilities have required significant up-front fixed costs. If market demand for our products and services does not increase at the pace we have anticipated and align with our manufacturing capacity, we may be unable to offset these costs and to achieve economies of scale, and our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of high fixed costs, reduced margins and underutilization of capacity. In light of these considerations, we may be forced to temporarily idle existing capacity or sell to third parties manufacturing capacity that we cannot utilize in the near term, in addition to the steps that we have already taken to adjust our capacity more closely to demand. Alternatively, if we experience rapid demand for our products and services in excess of our estimates, or we have reduced our manufacturing capacity, our installed capital equipment and existing workforce may be insufficient to support higher production volumes, which could adversely affect our customer relationships and overall reputation. In addition, we may not be able to expand our workforce and operations in a timely manner, procure adequate resources or locate suitable third-party suppliers to respond effectively to changes in demand for our existing products and services or to the demand for new products and services requested by our customers, and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to meet such excess customer demand could also depend on our ability to raise additional capital and effectively scale our manufacturing operations. We rely on unionized labor, the loss of which could adversely affect our future success. We are dependent on the services of unionized labor and have collective bargaining agreements with certain of our operations workforce at our Cicero, Illinois and Neville Island, Pennsylvania gearing facilities. The loss of the services of these and other personnel, whether through terminations, attrition, labor strike or otherwise, or a material change in our collective bargaining agreements, could have a material adverse impact on us and our future profitability. A collective bargaining agreement has been ratified by the collective bargaining unit in place at our Neville Island facility and is expected to expire in October 2017. The collective bargaining agreement with the Cicero union expired in February 2014; 14 Table of Contents the parties are currently negotiating a new collective bargaining agreement. As of December 31, 2013, our collective bargaining units represented approximately 18% of our workforce. We may need to hire additional qualified personnel, including management personnel, and the loss of our key personnel could adversely affect our business. Our future success will depend largely on the skills, efforts and motivation of our executive officers and other key personnel. Our success also depends, in large part, upon our ability to attract and retain highly qualified management and key personnel throughout our organization. We face competition in the attraction and retention of personnel who possess the skill sets that we seek. In addition, key personnel may leave the Company and subsequently compete against us. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel, or our failure to attract and retain other qualified and experienced personnel on acceptable terms, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our ability to comply with regulatory requirements is critical to our future success and our current level of controls cannot guarantee that we are in compliance with all such requirements. As a manufacturer and distributor of wind and other energy industry products we may be or become subject to the requirements of federal, state and local or foreign regulatory authorities. In addition, we are subject to a number of industry standard-setting authorities, such as the American Gear Manufacturers Association and the American Welding Society. Changes in the standards and requirements imposed by such authorities could have a material adverse effect on us. In the event we are unable to meet any such standards when adopted, our business could be adversely affected. We may not be able to obtain all regulatory approvals, licenses and permits that may be required in the future, or any necessary modifications to existing regulatory approvals, licenses and permits, or maintain all required regulatory approvals, licenses and permits. There can be no guarantee that our businesses are in full compliance with such standards and requirements. We continue to develop our internal controls with a goal of providing a greater degree of certainty that our businesses are in compliance with applicable governmental and regulatory requirements, but our current level of internal control may fail to reveal to us material instances of non-compliance with such requirements, and such non-compliance could have a material adverse effect on our business. Current or future litigation and regulatory actions could have a material adverse impact on us. From time to time, we are subject to litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to our business. We are currently defendants in certain litigation matters and the subject of certain investigations by governmental agencies as further described under in Part I, Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" of this Annual Report. No assurances can be given that the results of these or new matters will be favorable to us. An adverse resolution of lawsuits, investigations or arbitrations could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Defending ourselves in these matters may be time-consuming, expensive and disruptive to normal business operations and may result in significant expense and a diversion of management's time and attention from the operation of our business, which could impede our ability to achieve our business objectives. Additionally, any amount that we may be required to pay to satisfy a judgment or settlement may not be covered by insurance. Under our charter and the indemnification agreements that we have entered into with our officers, directors and certain third parties, we are required to indemnify and advance expenses to them in connection with their participation in certain proceedings. There can be no assurance that any of these payments will not be material. 15 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs to comply with environmental, health and safety laws and regulations and to address violations of or liabilities under these requirements. Our operations are subject to a variety of environmental, health and safety laws and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate and sell products governing, among other things, health, safety, pollution and protection of the environment and natural resources, including the use, handling, transportation and disposal of non-hazardous and hazardous materials and wastes, as well as emissions and discharges into the environment, including discharges to air, surface water, groundwater and soil, product content, performance and packaging. We cannot guarantee that we have been or will at all times be in compliance with such laws and regulations. Changes in existing environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, or their application, could cause us to incur additional or unexpected costs to achieve or maintain compliance. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations, obtain the necessary permits to operate our business, or comply with the terms and conditions of such permits may subject us to a variety of administrative, civil and criminal enforcement measures, including the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, monetary fines and penalties, remedial obligations, and the issuance of compliance requirements limiting or preventing some or all of our operations. The assertion of claims relating to regulatory compliance, on or off-site contamination, natural resource damage, the discovery of previously unknown environmental liabilities, the imposition of criminal or civil fines or penalties and/or other sanctions, or the obligation to undertake investigation, remediation or monitoring activities could result in potentially significant costs and expenditures to address contamination or resolve claims or liabilities. Such costs and expenditures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. Under certain circumstances, violation of such environmental laws and regulations could result in us being disqualified from eligibility to receive federal government contracts or subcontracts under the federal government's debarment and suspension system. We also are subject to laws and regulations that impose liability and cleanup responsibility for releases of hazardous substances into the environment. Under certain of these laws and regulations, such liabilities can be imposed for cleanup of currently and formerly owned, leased or operated properties, or properties to which hazardous substances or wastes were sent by current or former operators at our current or former facilities, regardless of whether we directly caused the contamination or violated any law at the time of discharge or disposal. Several of our facilities have a history of industrial operations, and contaminants have been detected at some of our facilities. The presence of contamination from hazardous substances or wastes could interfere with ongoing operations or adversely affect our ability to sell, lease or use our properties as collateral for financing. We also could be held liable under third-party claims for property damage, natural resource damage or personal injury and for penalties and other damages under such environmental laws and regulations, which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Under certain circumstances, violation of such environmental laws and regulations could result in us being disqualified from eligibility to receive federal government contracts or subcontracts under the federal government's debarment and suspension system. Limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses may negatively affect our financial results. We may not be able to utilize all of our net operating losses ("NOL's"). To the extent available, we will use any NOL carryforwards to reduce the U.S. corporate income tax liability associated with our operations. However, if we do not achieve profitability prior to their expiration, we will not be able to fully utilize our NOL's to offset income. For financial statement presentation, all benefits associated with the NOL carryforwards have been reserved. Section 382 of the IRC generally imposes an annual limitation on the amount of NOL carryforwards that may be used to offset taxable income when a corporation has undergone certain changes in stock ownership. Our ability to utilize NOL carryforwards and built-in losses may be limited, under this section or otherwise, by our issuance of common stock or 16 Table of Contents by other changes in stock ownership. Upon completion of our analysis of IRC Section 382, we have determined that aggregate changes in our stock ownership have triggered an annual limitation of NOL carryforwards and built-in losses available for utilization. Although this event limits the amount of pre-ownership change date NOL's and built-in losses we can utilize annually, it would not preclude us from fully utilizing our current NOL carryforwards prior to their expiration. To the extent our use of NOL carryforwards and associated built-in losses is significantly limited in the future due to additional changes in stock ownership, our income could be subject to U.S. corporate income tax earlier than it would if we were able to use NOL carryforwards and built-in losses without annual limitation, which could result in lower profits and the loss of benefits from these attributes. To address these concerns, in February 2013 our Board of Directors (the "Board") approved the adoption of a Section 382 rights plan designed to preserve our NOL carryforwards and other tax benefits; our stockholders subsequently ratified the Section 382 rights plan at our 2013 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There can be no assurances that the Section 382 rights plan will be effective in protecting our NOL carryforwards. If our estimates for warranty expenses differ materially from actual claims made, or if we are unable to reasonably estimate future warranty expense for our products and services, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. We provide warranty terms generally ranging between one and five years to our towers, gearing and services customers depending upon the specific product or service and terms of the customer agreement. We reserve for warranty claims based on industry experience and estimates made by management based upon a percentage of our sales revenues related to such products or services. From time to time, customers have submitted warranty claims to us. However, we have a limited history on which to base our warranty estimates for certain products that we manufacture and services that we provide. Our assumptions could be materially different from the actual performance of our products in the future and could exceed the levels against which we have reserved. In some instances our customers have interpreted the scope and coverage of certain of our warranty provisions differently from our interpretation of such provisions. The expenses associated with remediation activities in the wind energy industry can be substantial, and if we are required to pay such costs in connection with a customer's warranty claim we could be subject to additional unplanned cash expenditures. If our estimates prove materially incorrect, or if we are required to cover remediation expenses in addition to our regular warranty coverage, we could be required to incur additional expenses and could face a material unplanned cash expenditure, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may be unable to keep pace with rapidly changing technology in wind turbine and other industrial component manufacturing. The global market for wind turbines, as well as for other industrial components we manufacture, is rapidly evolving technologically. Our component manufacturing equipment and technology may not be suited for future generations of products being developed by wind turbine companies. For example, some wind turbine manufacturers are using wind turbine towers made from concrete instead of steel. Other wind turbine designs have reduced the use of gearing or eliminated the gearbox entirely through the use of direct or compact drive technologies. To maintain a successful business in our field, we must keep pace with technological developments and changing standards of our customers and potential customers and meet their constantly evolving demands. If we fail to adequately respond to the technological changes in our industry, or are not suited to provide components for new types of wind turbines, our financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 17 Table of Contents 