ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Telles Joint Venture The success or failure of Telles will materially affect our Company's financial results. We expect to receive payments from Telles for the compounding services we provide to Telles as well as royalty payments on sales of Telles products. The compounding payments and royalty payments are due to us as Telles sells product to its customers. Although Telles is a separate legal entity owned equally by us and ADM, ADM will disproportionately fund the activities of the joint venture. Specifically, ADM's cost of constructing the Commercial Manufacturing Facility for the production of Mirel, the working capital requirements of the joint venture funded by ADM, and ADM's support payments to us will exceed the investments made by us to establish compounding operations for the joint venture. In order to rebalance the respective investments made by the parties, a preferential distribution of cash flow provides that all profits, after payment of all royalties, reimbursements and fees, from the joint venture will be distributed to ADM until ADM's disproportionate investment in the joint venture, including the costs of constructing the Commercial Manufacturing Facility, have been returned to ADM. In order to track the disproportionate investments ADM has made, a Ledger Account has been established to record the respective investments made by the parties. As of December 31, 2010 the balance of the ADM Ledger Account was approximately $403 million. We will not receive any distribution from the profits of the joint venture until ADM has recovered these amounts. Therefore, any factors that delay or reduce Telles' profits, including manufacturing, compounding or distribution difficulties or delays that affect the ramp-up of commercial sales, will materially impact our Company's financial results. Additionally, if initial sales of Mirel are slower than anticipated, our financial results will be negatively affected. Telles will not begin to pay us royalties on sales of Mirel or reimburse us for the cost of services provided to Telles until the achievement of a milestone referred to in the Commercial Alliance Agreement as "First Commercial Sale." Achievement of this milestone requires the sale by Telles to third parties of at least one million pounds of Mirel manufactured at the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. Sales must meet certain criteria, including a minimum order size, product must be accepted by the customers in accordance with the terms of their contracts, and payment must be received from the customer in order for such sales to contribute towards the First Commercial Sale milestone. Generally, new product applications require a long lead time and sufficient quantities of polymer for development and qualification before customers enter into sales commitments. Achievement of the First Commercial Sale milestone is taking longer than anticipated. If there are manufacturing, compounding or distribution difficulties or further delays that affect the ramp-up of commercial sales, our cost of Telles support activities will increase. We will incur additional unreimbursed product development, sales and marketing costs until the Commercial Phase of the alliance begins, and the revenue from sales, if any, of Mirel and the distribution of profits, if any, to us will be delayed. Telles products may not achieve market success. Telles currently has only limited customer commitments for commercial quantities of Mirel. Prospective customers are currently evaluating and performing tests on Mirel prior to making large-scale purchase decisions. Market acceptance of Mirel and future Telles products will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, including among others: •public acceptance of such products; 26 Table of Contents •ability to produce products of consistent quality that offer functionality comparable or superior to existing or new polymer products; •our ability to produce products fit for their intended purpose; •our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our products; •the speed at which potential customers qualify Mirel for use in their products; •our ability to meet customer demand for products with a favorable greenhouse gas profile; •pricing of our products compared to competitive products, including petroleum-based plastics; •the strategic reaction of companies that market competitive products; •our reliance on third parties who support or control distribution channels; and •general market conditions. Under the Commercial Alliance Agreement, Metabolix is responsible for providing Telles sales and marketing services. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities and virtually no distribution experience or capabilities. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon our ability to identify and hire new employees and augment our own resources by entering into distribution arrangements with third parties. If we are unable to develop or obtain access to sales and marketing expertise, sales of Telles products, if any, may be adversely affected. Telles faces and will face substantial competition. Telles faces and will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in the biodegradable, renewable resource-based plastic segment, within which there are three distinct technologies: PHA, PLA and starch-based biodegradables. While some of competitors' existing products that are produced from renewable feedstocks do not have the range of properties that Mirel offers, such products are, nonetheless, suitable for use in a range of products at a price which may be lower than our premium priced product offerings. Telles competitors include, but are not limited to, Kaneka and Tianan in the PHA plastic segment, NatureWorks, Mitsui Chemical, Toyota, Novamont, and Stanelco in PLA and starch-based biodegradables, as well as all of the producers of petroleum-based plastics. Many of Telles' competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than Telles. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that Telles will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. Telles manufacturing and compounding capacity may not be sufficient to keep up with demand in a timely or economical manner. ADM's Commercial Manufacturing Facility for Mirel began operations in late 2009. The current and anticipated methods for manufacturing Mirel are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise. We may not be able to resolve any such difficulties in a timely or cost effective fashion, if at all. We cannot assure you that ADM will be able to successfully manufacture Mirel at a scale consistent with customer demand in a timely or economical manner, or that the quality of the commercial product will be acceptable on a consistent basis. Since commercial manufacturing of Mirel is still in its early stages, Mirel manufacturing costs are uncertain and may ultimately be higher than we expect. While we believe that manufacturing costs will be reduced over time as we and ADM gain manufacturing know-how and improve our technology, we cannot be sure that ADM can manufacture Mirel in an economical manner. If ADM fails to develop 27 Table of Contents adequate manufacturing capacity and expertise or fails to manufacture Mirel economically at large scale or in commercial volumes, the commercialization of Mirel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Further, we are responsible for the compounding of Telles products. If we fail to obtain or maintain third party toll compounding services on acceptable terms, or to establish our own compounding facility to provide such services in a timely and economical manner, the commercialization of Mirel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will also be materially adversely affected. ADM has completed construction of the initial phase of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. We cannot assure you that ADM will provide the necessary funds to finance the remaining phases of construction or any improvements to or expansion of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility, or that we will be able to develop this manufacturing infrastructure in a timely or economical manner, or at all. ADM could experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. If the Commercial Manufacturing Facility is not constructed to its full design capacity of 110 million pounds, or does not achieve that capacity in actual operations, or if construction to full capacity is not completed in a timely manner, Mirel may not reach its full market potential because Telles may not be able to meet market demand for Mirel, and because Mirel manufacturing costs may not be economical. Also, the expansion of a commercial-scale manufacturing facility is complex and expensive. If demand for Mirel increases beyond the scope of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility being built to serve Telles, we may incur significant expenses in the expansion and/or construction of manufacturing facilities and increases in personnel in order to increase manufacturing capacity. We rely heavily on ADM for the successful implementation of our joint venture. We rely on ADM: •to provide capital, equipment and facilities for the manufacture of Mirel, •to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, •to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, •to provide access to raw materials. Failure to maintain this arrangement or a failure in ADM's performance under the commercial alliance would have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. ADM is permitted by contract to terminate the Commercial Alliance Agreement with 30 days notice if, based upon a change in circumstances beyond the reasonable control of ADM, the projected financial return from the commercial alliance is deemed by ADM to be either too uncertain or inadequate. We cannot control ADM's performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with ADM, nor will we have control of their activities on behalf of any alliance. In the event of a disagreement with ADM, Telles performance may be adversely affected, programs may be delayed or terminated, or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Performance issues, program delay or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The commercial success of Mirel may be limited if Telles is unable to obtain raw materials in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. We anticipate that the production of Telles products will require large volumes of feedstock, initially corn sugar. ADM is the sole source of the dextrose (corn sugar) that is the primary feedstock for the production of Mirel, and our agreement with ADM limits Telles' ability to require the use of 28 Table of Contents other sources of raw material. We cannot predict the future availability of such feedstock or be sure that ADM will be able to supply it in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. Weather conditions have historically caused volatility in the corn market by causing crop failures or reduced harvests. Crop disease and pestilence can also occur from time to time and can adversely affect corn harvests. Processing agents that are used in the manufacture of Mirel and additives and other materials blended with Mirel formulations may only be available from limited sources. If corn sugar production is adversely affected by weather or other conditions, or if other raw materials cannot be obtained in sufficient quantities or at acceptable prices, Telles' ability to produce its products may be impaired, the cost of manufacturing Mirel formulations may increase, and our business will be adversely affected. Our success will be influenced by the price of petroleum, the primary ingredient in conventional petroleum-based plastics, relative to corn sugar, the primary ingredient in Mirel. Our success will be influenced by the cost of Mirel relative to petroleum-based plastics. The cost of petroleum-based plastic is in part based on the price of petroleum. Mirel is primarily manufactured using corn sugar, an agricultural feedstock. ADM currently supplies all required agricultural feedstock as part of our strategic alliance. If the price of corn or corn sugar were to dramatically increase or if the price of petroleum decreases, Mirel may be less competitive relative to petroleum-based plastics. A material decrease in the cost of conventional petroleum-based plastics may require a reduction in the prices of our products for them to remain attractive in the marketplace or reduce the size of our addressable market. Risks Relating to Our Crop-Based and Industrial Chemicals Business Platforms We may not be successful in the development of our crop-based platform or our industrial chemicals program. We are at an early stage of developing the technology and processes to produce biobased plastics and chemicals in plant crops, including switchgrass, sugarcane and oilseed, and applying our core capabilities in microbial engineering and plant transformation to develop biological routes to chemicals and chemical intermediates. The technological challenges associated with these programs are extraordinary and we may not be able to overcome these challenges. We will be required to invest a significant amount over a long period of time to complete such development work, if it can be completed at all. To date our efforts to produce biobased plastics in crops have focused primarily on the genetic engineering required to cause the crops to aggregate plastic in the plant mass during the life cycle of the plant. We have not yet achieved a high enough concentration of plastic in commercial crops to make the current technology and process economically feasible at a commercial scale. If we are able to complete the genetic engineering work that leads to such aggregation at acceptable levels, we will also need to perform additional process engineering so that plastic can be recovered from the harvested crops, processed and formulated as required to constitute a marketable product. The time required for development, regulatory approval and commercialization of crop-based products is very long. Such development work may not be successful and we may not have the financial resources to fund such work. Our chemicals development efforts are also at a very early stage. We are currently focused on the genetic and process engineering required in connection with such programs. Because we will be funding much, or perhaps all, of the development of such programs, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund such programs to completion or to provide the support necessary to distribute, market and sell resulting products, if any, on a worldwide basis. These development programs will consume substantial resources. We cannot predict the costs of producing biobased plastics in plant crops or producing chemicals through biological routes, given the stage of development of these programs. The anticipated methods for manufacturing biobased plastics in crops and for producing bio-engineered chemicals and energy 29 Table of Contents are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise and there are extensive regulatory requirements to be met. The success of our industrial chemicals program will also depend on the cost of the sugars that we will use as feedstocks, relative to the price of petroleum. Given these uncertainties, we may not be able to successfully produce biobased plastics in plant crops or biosourced chemicals in an economical manner. We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies and developing new products to meet those needs. The success of our business model depends on our ability to correctly identify market opportunities for biologically produced plastics, chemicals and energy. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so, in part because customers may perceive risks in adopting new materials, like Mirel, for use with existing products and because the markets for new materials and other products are not well-developed. The materials and manufacturing technologies we research and develop are new and are steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the demands in existing markets. Our existing products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify new opportunities as they arise for our products since future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. We face and will face substantial competition in several different markets that may adversely affect our results of operations. The plastics and chemicals that we plan to develop will compete with other technologically innovative products as well as conventional petroleum-based plastics and chemicals. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. We may rely heavily on future collaborative partners. We may enter into strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize our current and future research and development programs with other companies: •to provide capital, equipment and facilities, •to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, •to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, •to provide access to raw materials, and/or •to support or provide sales and marketing services. 30 Table of Contents We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining suitable partnerships, and we may not be able to negotiate collaboration agreements having terms satisfactory to us or at all. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner's performance under any such arrangements could have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Other Business Risks Our future profitability is uncertain, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. We have had net operating losses since being founded in 1992. At December 31, 2010, our accumulated deficit was approximately $207 million. Since 1992, we have been engaged primarily in research and development and other pre-commercial and early-stage commercial activities. Because we have a limited history of commercial operations and we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenue to operate our business and become profitable. Our revenue will be dependent on the successful completion of the scale-up and commercialization of Mirel through our strategic alliance with ADM, and other future products through other partnerships or joint ventures, if any, with third parties and separately for our own account. In addition, if we are unable to develop, commercialize and further advance technologies relating to the production of biobased plastics in crops and chemicals, or if sales of Mirel or such other products are not significant, we could have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses to perform research and product development and our inability to obtain additional research and development funding in connection with such products. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on the number of new products that we attempt to develop. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable or achieve significant revenues. We may need to secure additional funding and may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception in 1992 for our research and development activities. Although we believe our unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $62 million as of December 31, 2010, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 24 months, we may require significant additional financing in the future to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through the use of existing cash resources and through strategic collaborations, governmental research grants, and/or by licensing all or a portion of our programs or technology. We may also seek additional funds through private or public sales of our securities, or debt financings. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Further, additional funding may significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on our key technical and scientific personnel, including Dr. Oliver Peoples, our Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Peoples possesses unique information related to our research and technology. Dr. Peoples is one of our founders and has led and directed many of our scientific research and development programs. Dr. Peoples has such particular knowledge in the research, development and intellectual property aspects in connection with our technology platforms, that in the 31 Table of Contents case of the loss of his services we may be unable to readily find a suitable replacement with comparable knowledge and experience necessary to further our research and development programs. The loss of key personnel with know-how related to our manufacturing technology may also adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management, and marketing and sales personnel. Because of the unique talents and experience of many of our scientific, engineering and technical staff, competition for our personnel is intense. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have required expertise and skills could have a materially adverse affect on our research and development efforts and our business. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be adversely affected. While historically we have focused the majority of our efforts on research and development of Mirel, we plan to grow by allocating resources to developing additional marketing and sales expertise, entering into additional collaborations with strategic partners, adding personnel with specific technological experience, and developing and commercializing additional products, such as chemicals and chemical intermediates from renewable resources. Our ability to grow in this manner will require that we manage a diverse range of relationships and projects, expand our personnel resources and facilities, and broaden our geographic presence. Our inability to do any of these could prevent us from successfully implementing our growth strategy, and our business could be adversely affected. We believe that sustained growth at a higher rate will place a strain on our management, as well as on our other human resources. To manage this growth, we must continue to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific, technical and operating personnel. If we are unable to hire at the required rate, we may be unable to staff and manage projects adequately. This may slow the development process, and result in the commercialization of fewer products or compromise the quality of our work. Our products are made using genetically-engineered systems and may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. Mirel is a new material produced by genetically-engineered microbes using corn sugar derived from genetically engineered corn as a feedstock. In the future our products may be produced in genetically-engineered crops or through fermentation using genetically-engineered microbes. We may incur liability and/or legal expenses if there are claims that our genetically-engineered crops damage the environment or contaminate other farm crops. Some countries have adopted regulations prohibiting or limiting the production of genetically-engineered crops and the sale of products made using genetically engineered organisms. Such regulations could harm our business and impair our ability to produce biobased plastics in that manner. The subject of genetic engineering of crops and other species has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the development and use of genetically-engineered organisms or products made from such organisms. Social concerns could adversely affect acceptance of our products. We are subject to significant foreign and domestic government regulations, and compliance or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. The manufacture, use, sale and marketing of Mirel is subject to government regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including requirements for government approval of food contact applications. Our plant-crop and renewable chemical products will also be subject to government regulation in our target markets. In the U.S., the EPA administers the Toxic Substances Control Act, or TSCA, which regulates 32 Table of Contents the commercial registration, distribution, and use of chemicals. A similar program exists in the European Union, called REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemical Substances). The failure to comply with governmental regulations or to obtain government approval for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Governmental regulation or negative publicity could delay, reduce or eliminate market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our current and planned activities also involve the use of a broad range of materials that are, or may be, considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we and ADM are subject to a number of foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes, and health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations could be costly and could delay or even preclude commercialization of our products for certain applications. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws, we could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us, or our strategic partners, from conducting business. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. Each segment of our operations is currently conducted at a single location, which makes us susceptible to disasters or other disruptions. All commercial manufacturing of Mirel is being conducted by ADM at the Commercial Manufacturing Facility in Clinton, Iowa, and the majority of compounding services will initially be provided by a single toll compounding facility. A natural disaster or other business interruption at either of these sites could significantly impact Mirel production and sales. Our research and development operations are located at a single facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of critical research results and of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, or a disruption due to mechanical failure, human error, business failure of a contractor, labor strikes, vandalism, or other causes, could damage or destroy our equipment, inventory, our microbial strains, plants or other biological materials, or result in the loss of data from our information technology systems. This could delay our research and development programs and could cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters or business interruptions may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. We may not have adequate insurance and may have substantial exposure to payment of product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of our products and products sold by our licensees may involve product liability risks. Although we currently have product liability insurance covering claims up to $4 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, and Telles has product liability insurance covering claims up to $2 million per occurrence and $50 million in the aggregate, we may not be able to maintain this product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. 33 Table of Contents Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated benefits of the combined businesses; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •potential loss of key employees, collaborators and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders' ownership interest may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we plan to use such technologies. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, we may be unable to protect certain of our intellectual property in the United States or in foreign countries. Foreign jurisdictions may not afford the same protections as U.S. law, and we cannot ensure that foreign patent applications will have the same scope as the U.S. patents. Additionally, any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Competitors may also design around our technology or develop competing technologies. 34 Table of Contents We could incur substantial costs to bring suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies, and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of development of our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products and Telles' products. We may not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and there will be many countries in which we will choose not to file trademark registration applications because of the costs of filing and prosecuting such applications. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain trademarks, we may be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. A substantial portion of the technology used in our business is or may be owned by or subject to retained rights of third parties. Some of our intellectual property rights have been licensed from academic institutions. The academic institutions also generally have the right to terminate our license in the event that we fail to make required payments or otherwise breach the applicable agreements. We also have, and expect to have in the future, research and development agreements with academic institutions that may develop intellectual property. The academic institutions generally retain rights over the technology for use in certain fields. Even though the rights of the academic institutions are generally limited to the noncommercial academic and research fields, they may obtain rights to commercially exploit developed intellectual property in limited instances. Furthermore, our rights to intellectual property developed under research and development agreements with academic institutions are not always certain, and may be in the form of an option to obtain license rights to such intellectual property. If we fail to exercise our option rights timely and/or we are unable to negotiate a license agreement, the academic institution may offer a license to the developed intellectual property to third parties for commercial purposes. Any such commercial exploitation could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. The U.S. government may retain rights that could have a significant impact on the commercial value of the developed intellectual property. Our agreement with ADM limits ADM's and our right to work with other parties or alone, in developing or commercializing certain PHAs produced through fermentation. This agreement does not, however, limit our right to develop, manufacture or sell biobased plastics, including PHAs, produced through plants such as switchgrass, sugarcane or oilseeds (rather than through fermentation) independent of the alliance. Complying with the exclusivity provisions of the commercial alliance may delay or limit our ability to negotiate arrangements with third parties for the development of products that are, or may be deemed to be, subject to the terms of the commercial alliance agreement. Our employees, consultants, collaborators, customers and vendors who use our information and materials may develop new intellectual property relating to our products and technologies. We generally enter into agreements with such persons providing that inventions conceived by them in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property or that we will have the option to license such rights. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual 35 Table of Contents property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained intellectual property rights is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. The failure to obtain such rights for Metabolix or to prevent others from obtaining such rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in areas relevant to biobased plastics, chemicals and energy, their compositions, formulations and uses, and processes for their production. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents relating to biobased plastics. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. If third parties assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. We cannot currently predict whether a third party will assert a claim against us, or pursue infringement litigation against us; nor can we predict the ultimate outcome of any such potential claims or litigation. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely in part on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could limit our ability to compete. We rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology and proprietary information, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We vigorously pursue confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our collaborators, potential customers, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, our potential customers, or our strategic partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. 36 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: •reported progress of our business and technology development, including ramp up of Telles sales, relative to investor expectations; •changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; •quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; •general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; •future sales of our common stock; •future issuance and/or sale of preferred stock; •announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our board of directors or management; •changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; •announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation involving our intellectual property; •a lack of, limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage; •developments in our industry and general economic conditions; and •the other factors described elsewhere in these "Risk Factors." As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may have a materially adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. 37 Table of Contents Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this "Risk Factors" section and, in particular, the following risks: •failure to estimate or control contract costs; •adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes; •expenses related to acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures; •other one-time financial charges; •fluctuations due to revenue recognition under strategic alliance agreements; •fluctuations due to the effects of inflation; •failure to produce commercialized products or to find customers for these products; and •that some of our programs are supported by government funding, which is unpredictable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance our Board's ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of the Company is made in the future. The adoption of the plan was intended, in part, to address the risk that a third party could acquire our Company at a price that does not reflect the full value of our business and our technologies. The shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our Company or a large block of our Company's common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. 38 Table of Contents We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 