ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to our Business We have incurred net losses since inception. Termination of the ADM commercial alliance has increased the risks and uncertainties relating to commercialization of our first and only product, Mirel. We have generated net losses since being founded in 1992. Our ability to generate revenues in the near-term is highly dependent on the successful commercialization of Mirel, our first and only product in the market, which we were commercializing through our Telles joint venture with ADM. In January 2012 we were notified by ADM that they were terminating our commercial alliance effective as of February 8, 2012. Under the commercial alliance, ADM financed the construction of and owned the Commercial Manufacturing Facility in which it manufactured biopolymer resins under contract to Telles. Subject to certain limitations, ADM also financed the working capital requirements of Telles. Telles agreed to pay us royalties on sales of Mirel during the Commercial Phase of the Commercial Alliance Agreement. In addition, if Telles were to engage us to perform certain services during the Commercial Phase, and we accepted the service arrangement, Telles agreed to reimburse us for the cost of the services provided pursuant to the Commercial Alliance Agreement. Without ADM's continued support of our biopolymers program, we may not have the necessary financial or other resources to pursue the commercialization of PHA biopolymers, including Mirel and Mvera. We may require another partner to continue commercialization of Mirel, and we may not be able to enter into such a partnership on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Outside of biopolymers, our other technologies are in the early stages of development. We may never be able to manufacture and sell other products developed with our technology on a commercial scale. Our success will depend on our ability to obtain suitable partnerships and collaborations for commercialization of the technologies we have developed. Even if we can successfully manufacture and sell other products, whether we are able to generate a profit on any of these products is highly uncertain and depends on a number of factors including the cost of production, the price we are able to charge for these products, and the emergence of competing products. 31 Table of Contents Risks Relating to our Biopolymers Business Platform We may not be able to obtain sufficient biopolymer manufacturing and compounding capacity. ADM operated its Commercial Manufacturing Facility under a manufacturing agreement with Telles, which paid manufacturing fees to ADM for production of PHA biopolymer resins. After termination of the commercial alliance, ADM retained its ownership of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. We retained certain pre-commercial manufacturing equipment that was used in connection with pilot plant production of Mirel. However, we do not currently have a source for commercial scale manufacturing of biopolymers. The current and anticipated methods for manufacturing Mirel are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manufacture Mirel at a scale consistent with customer demand in a timely or economical manner, or at all, or that the quality of the commercial product will be acceptable on a consistent basis. Since commercial manufacturing of Mirel at the Commercial Manufacturing Facility was still in its early stages, and a new source for manufacturing has yet to be identified, Mirel manufacturing costs are uncertain and may ultimately be higher than we expect. While we believe that manufacturing costs could be reduced over time as we gain manufacturing know-how and improve our technology, we cannot be sure that we can manufacture Mirel in an economical manner. If we fail to develop adequate manufacturing capacity and expertise or fail to manufacture Mirel economically at large scale or in commercial volumes, the commercialization of Mirel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. Further, if we fail to obtain or maintain third party toll compounding services on acceptable terms, or to establish our own compounding facility to provide such services in a timely and economical manner, the commercialization of Mirel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will also be materially adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary funds to finance the construction of a new commercial manufacturing facility, or that we will be able to develop a manufacturing infrastructure in a timely or economical manner, or at all. We may depend on obtaining commercial partners to finance and/or construct a commercial manufacturing facilities for Mirel production. If the commercial manufacturing capacity that we build or otherwise obtain is not appropriate to the level of Mirel market demand, we may not be able to meet market demand for Mirel, and Mirel manufacturing costs may not be economical. We relied heavily on ADM for the successful implementation of our biopolymer commercialization. We relied on ADM: •to provide capital, equipment and facilities for the manufacture of Mirel, •to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, •to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, •to provide a corporate infrastructure for European sales and marketing activities, and •to provide access to raw materials. To continue the commercialization of Mirel and our biopolymers business, we may depend on third party collaborations and partnerships for some or all of the above. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining suitable partnerships, and we may not be able to negotiate collaboration agreements having terms satisfactory to us or at all. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner's performance under any such arrangements could have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. 32 Table of Contents Because of ADM's termination of the commercial alliance, our ability to commercialize our biopolymers has been adversely affected, other Metabolix programs may be delayed or terminated, and we may have to use our funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources to undertake certain activities on our own. Performance issues, program delay or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The commercial success of Mirel may be limited if we are unable to obtain raw materials in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. We anticipate that the production of our biopolymer products will require large volumes of feedstock. ADM was the sole source of the dextrose (corn sugar) that was the primary feedstock for the production of Mirel. With the termination of the ADM commercial alliance, we are now free to explore the use of other feedstocks. However, we cannot predict the future availability of any particular feedstock or be sure that we will be able to purchase it in sufficient quantities or in a timely manner. Processing agents that are used in the manufacture of Mirel and additives and other materials blended with Mirel formulations may only be available from limited sources. If raw materials cannot be obtained in sufficient quantities or at acceptable prices, our ability to produce our biopolymer products may be impaired, the cost of manufacturing Mirel formulations may increase, and our business will be adversely affected. Our biopolymer products may not achieve market success. We currently have limited customer commitments for commercial quantities of our biopolymers. Some prospective customers are currently evaluating and performing tests on Mirel prior to making large-scale purchase decisions. The successful commercialization of Mirel is also dependent on our customers' ability to commercialize their products which use Mirel, which may never gain market acceptance. Market acceptance of Mirel and future Metabolix products will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, including among others: •public acceptance of such products; •ability to produce products of consistent quality that offer functionality comparable or superior to existing or new polymer products; •our ability to produce products fit for their intended purpose; •our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our products; •the speed at which potential customers qualify Mirel for use in their products; •our ability to meet customer demand for products with a favorable greenhouse gas profile; •pricing of our products compared to competitive products, including petroleum-based plastics; •the strategic reaction of companies that market competitive products; •our reliance on third parties who support or control distribution channels; and •general market conditions. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities and virtually no distribution experience or capabilities. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon our ability to identify and hire new employees and augment our own resources by entering into distribution arrangements and collaborations with third parties. If we are unable to develop or obtain access to sales and marketing and distribution expertise, sales of our biopolymer products, if any, may be adversely affected. 33 Table of Contents We face and will face substantial competition. We face and will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in the biodegradable, renewable resource-based plastic segment, within which there are three distinct technologies: PHA, PLA and starch-based biodegradables. While some of our competitors' existing products that are produced from renewable feedstocks do not have the range of properties that Mirel offers, such products are, nonetheless, suitable for use in a range of products at a price which may be lower than our premium priced product offerings. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Kaneka, Tianan, Tianjin and EcoMann in the PHA plastic segment, NatureWorks, Mitsui Chemical, Teijin, Novamont, and Biome in PLA and starch-based biodegradables, as well as all of the producers of petroleum-based plastics. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than Metabolix. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. Changes in government regulations encouraging the use of biodegradable alternatives to plastic products or the use of biofuels and changes in regulations pertaining to marketing of biodegradable products may have an adverse effect on our business. One of the key markets for our products is as compostable and biodegradable substitutes for non-biodegradable petroleum-based plastics. This market is driven in part by laws, regulations and policies designed to encourage or mandate the increased use of biodegradable alternatives to petroleum-based plastics. Numerous countries, states and localities have enacted such laws and regulations, including bans and taxes on the use of single-use plastic and non-biodegradable plastic bags, due to ecological and waste management concerns. The phasing out or elimination of these or similar laws and regulations may adversely affect the demand for our products. The state of California has enacted legislation limiting the use of the terms "compostable," "biodegradable" and similar terms in connection with certain plastic products. Similar legislation has been adopted or is being proposed in other jurisdictions. While these restrictions also impact our competitors, these laws and regulations may limit our ability to promote or market Mirel based on its biodegradability characteristics. This could adversely affect the demand for Mirel which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we are in the early stage of developing plant crops for co-producing plastics or chemicals together with biofuels. The market for biofuels is heavily influenced by governmental laws, regulations and policies mandating or providing incentives for fuel alternatives. The phasing out or elimination of these or similar laws and regulations may adversely affect the demand for biofuels and deter investment in the research and development in such products or biofuels, which would adversely affect our business. Our success will be influenced by the price of petroleum, the primary ingredient in conventional petroleum-based plastics, relative to the price of biobased feedstocks used to make Mirel and other products. Our success will be influenced by the cost of Mirel relative to petroleum-based plastics. The cost of petroleum-based plastic is in part based on the price of petroleum. Mirel has been primarily manufactured using corn sugar, an agricultural feedstock. ADM supplied all required agricultural feedstock as part of our strategic alliance. If the price of plant sugar feedstocks were to increase and/or 34 Table of Contents if the price of petroleum decreases, Mirel may be less competitive relative to petroleum-based plastics. A material decrease in the cost of conventional petroleum-based plastics may require a reduction in the prices of our products for them to remain attractive in the marketplace or reduce the size of our addressable market. Risks Relating to our Crop-Based and Industrial Chemicals Business Platforms We may not be successful in the development of our crop-based platform or our industrial chemicals program. We are at an early stage of developing the technology and processes to produce biobased plastics and chemicals in plant crops, including switchgrass, sugarcane and oilseed, and applying our core capabilities in microbial engineering and plant transformation to develop biological routes to chemicals and chemical intermediates. The technological challenges associated with these programs are extraordinary and we may not be able to overcome these challenges. We will be required to invest a significant amount over a long period of time to complete such development work, if it can be completed at all. To date our plant science programs have focused primarily on the genetic engineering required to cause the crops to aggregate polymer in the plant mass during the life cycle of the plant. We have not yet achieved a high enough concentration of polymer in commercial crops to make the current technology and process economically feasible at a commercial scale. If we are able to complete the genetic engineering work that leads to such aggregation at acceptable levels, we will also need to perform additional process engineering so that plastic can be recovered from the harvested crops, processed and formulated as required to constitute a marketable product. The time required for development, regulatory approval and commercialization of crop-based products is very long. Such development work may not be successful and we may not have the financial resources to fund such work. Our chemicals development efforts are also at a very early stage. Because we will be funding much, or perhaps all, of the development of such programs, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund such programs to completion or to provide the support necessary to distribute, market and sell resulting products, if any, on a worldwide basis. These development programs will consume substantial resources. We cannot predict the costs of producing biobased plastics or chemicals in plant crops or producing chemicals through biological routes, given the stage of development of these programs. The anticipated methods for manufacturing biobased plastics and chemicals in crops and for producing bio-engineered chemicals and energy are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise and there are extensive regulatory requirements to be met. The success of our industrial chemicals program will also depend on the cost of the sugars that we will use as feedstocks, relative to the price of petroleum. Given these uncertainties, we may not be able to successfully produce biobased plastics or chemicals in plant crops or biosourced chemicals in an economical manner. We may not be successful in marketing the products of our new technologies. The success of our business model depends on our ability to correctly identify market opportunities for biologically produced polymers and chemicals. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so, in part because customers may perceive risks in adopting new materials, like Mirel, for use with existing products and because the markets for new materials and other products are not well-developed. Our products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements. 35 Table of Contents We may rely heavily on future collaborative partners. We may enter into strategic partnerships to develop and commercialize our current and future research and development programs with other companies: •to provide capital, equipment and facilities, •to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, •to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, •to provide access to raw materials, and/or •to support or provide sales and marketing services. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining suitable partnerships, and we may not be able to negotiate collaboration agreements having terms satisfactory to us or at all. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner's performance under any such arrangements could have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. Other Business Risks Our future profitability is uncertain, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. We have had net operating losses since being founded in 1992. At December 31, 2011, our accumulated deficit was approximately $246 million. Since 1992, we have been engaged primarily in research and development and other pre-commercial and early-stage commercial activities. Because we have a limited history of commercial operations and we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenue to operate our business and become profitable. Our revenue will be dependent on the successful completion of the commercialization of Mirel and other future products, directly by Metabolix or through other partnerships or joint ventures with third parties, and our ability to obtain funding from government grants and other sources. If we are unable to commercialize our technologies relating to the production of biobased plastics and chemicals in crops and biosourced industrial chemicals, or if sales of Mirel or such other products are not significant, we could have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses of research and product development. The amount we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on the number of new products that we attempt to develop. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable or achieve significant revenues. We may need to secure additional funding and may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception in 1992 for our research and development activities. Although we believe our unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and investments of approximately $78 million as of December 31, 2011, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 24 months, we may require significant additional financing in the future to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through the use of existing cash resources and through strategic collaborations, governmental research grants, and/or by licensing all or a portion of our programs or technology. We may also seek additional funds through private or public sales of our securities, or debt 36 Table of Contents financings. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Further, additional funding may significantly dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on our key technical and scientific personnel, who possess unique information related to our research and technology. If we were to lose the services of these individuals, we may be unable to readily find suitable replacements with comparable knowledge and experience necessary to further our research, development and commercial programs. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management, and marketing and sales personnel. Because of the unique talents and experience of many of our scientific, engineering and technical staff, competition for our personnel is intense. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have required expertise and skills could have a materially adverse effect on our research and development efforts and our business. Our products are made using genetically-engineered systems and may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. Mirel is a new material that has been produced by genetically-engineered microbes using sugar derived from genetically engineered corn as a feedstock. In the future our products may be produced in genetically-engineered crops or through fermentation using genetically-engineered microbes. We may incur liability and/or legal expenses if there are claims that our genetically-engineered crops damage the environment or contaminate other farm crops. Some countries have adopted regulations prohibiting or limiting the production of genetically-engineered crops and the sale of products made using genetically engineered organisms. Such regulations could harm our business and impair our ability to produce biobased polymers in that manner. The subject of genetic engineering of crops and other species has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the development and use of genetically-engineered organisms or products made from such organisms. Social concerns could adversely affect acceptance of our products. We are subject to significant foreign and domestic government regulations, and compliance or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. The manufacture, use, sale and marketing of Mirel is subject to government regulations in the U.S. and other countries, including requirements for government approval of food contact applications. Our plant-crop and biobased chemical products will also be subject to government regulation in our target markets. In the U.S., the EPA administers the Toxic Substances Control Act, or TSCA, which regulates the commercial registration, distribution, and use of chemicals. A similar program exists in the European Union, called REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemical Substances). The use and handling of GBL, the initial target of our biobased industrial chemicals program, is regulated by the U.S. DEA. The failure to comply with governmental regulations or to obtain government approval for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Governmental regulation or negative publicity could delay, reduce or eliminate market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our current and planned activities also involve the use of a broad range of materials that are, or may be, considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we are subject to a 37 Table of Contents number of foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes, and health and safety. Compliance with these laws and regulations could be costly and could delay or even preclude commercialization of our products for certain applications. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws, we could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us, or our strategic partners, from conducting business. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. We may not have adequate insurance and may have substantial exposure to payment of product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of our products may involve product liability risks. Although we currently have product liability insurance covering claims up to $4 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, we may not be able to maintain this product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, it could have a materially adverse effect on our business and our financial condition. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated benefits of the combined businesses; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •potential loss of key employees, collaborators and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders' ownership interest may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. 38 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we plan to use such technologies. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, we may be unable to protect certain of our intellectual property in the United States or in foreign countries. Foreign jurisdictions may not afford the same protections as U.S. law, and we cannot ensure that foreign patent applications will have the same scope as the U.S. patents. Additionally, any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. Competitors may also design around our technology or develop competing technologies. We could incur substantial costs to bring suits or other proceedings in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies, and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of development of our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. We may not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and there will be many countries in which we will choose not to file trademark registration applications because of the costs of filing and prosecuting such applications. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain trademarks, we may be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. A substantial portion of the technology used in our business is or may be owned by or subject to retained rights of third parties. Some of our intellectual property rights have been licensed from academic institutions. The academic institutions also generally have the right to terminate our license in the event that we fail to make required payments or otherwise breach the applicable agreements. We also have, and expect to have in the future, research and development agreements with academic institutions that may develop intellectual property. The academic institutions generally retain rights over the technology for use in certain fields. Even though the rights of the academic institutions are generally limited to the noncommercial academic and research fields, they may obtain rights to commercially exploit developed intellectual property in limited instances. Furthermore, our rights to intellectual property developed under research and development agreements with academic institutions are not always certain, and may be in the form of an option to obtain license rights to such intellectual property. If we fail to exercise 39 Table of Contents our option rights timely and/or we are unable to negotiate a license agreement, the academic institution may offer a license to the developed intellectual property to third parties for commercial purposes. Any such commercial exploitation could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. The U.S. government may retain rights that could have a significant impact on the commercial value of the developed intellectual property. Our employees, consultants, collaborators, customers and vendors who use our information and materials may develop new intellectual property relating to our products and technologies. We generally enter into agreements with such persons providing that inventions conceived by them in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property or that we will have the option to license such rights. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained intellectual property rights is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. The failure to obtain such rights for Metabolix or to prevent others from obtaining such rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications owned by third parties exist in areas relevant to biopolymers and biobased chemicals, their compositions, formulations and uses, and processes for their production. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents relating to biobased plastics. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. If third parties assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. We cannot currently predict whether a third party will assert a claim against us, or pursue infringement litigation against us; nor can we predict the ultimate outcome of any such potential claims or litigation. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 40 Table of Contents We rely in part on trade secrets to protect our technology, and our failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could limit our ability to compete. We rely on trade secrets to protect some of our technology and proprietary information, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We vigorously pursue confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our collaborators, potential customers, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, our potential customers, or our strategic partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. Risks Relating to Owning our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: •reported progress of our business and technology development, relative to investor expectations; •changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; •quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; •general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; •future sales of our common stock; •future issuance and/or sale of preferred stock; •announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our board of directors or management; •changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; •announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation involving our intellectual property; •a lack of, limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage; •developments in our industry and general economic conditions; and •the other factors described elsewhere in these "Risk factors." As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide 41 Table of Contents fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may have a materially adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period to period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this "Risk Factors" section and, in particular, the following risks: •fluctuations due to revenue recognition under strategic alliance agreements; •failure to produce commercialized products or to find customers for these products; •the unpredictability of government funding for some of our programs; •failure to estimate or control contract costs; •adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes; •expenses related to acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures; and •other one-time financial charges. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance our Board's ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of the Company is made in the future. The adoption of the plan was intended, in part, to address the risk that a third party could acquire our Company at a price that does not reflect the full value of our business and our technologies. The shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our Company or a large block of our Company's common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter 42 Table of Contents potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 