ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to successfully manufacture Mirel at commercial scale in a timely or economical manner. ADM's Commercial Manufacturing Facility for the production of Mirel (referred to as the Commercial Manufacturing Facility) has only recently begun operations. Previously, Mirel was produced in relatively small quantities, at pre-commercial scale, for use in marketing activities, including conversion into end-products for test marketing by our customers. The current and anticipated methods for manufacturing biobased plastics, both by fermentation and in crops, and the anticipated methods for producing chemicals and energy, are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise. We may not be able to resolve any such difficulties in a timely or cost effective fashion, if at all. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manufacture Mirel at a commercial scale in a timely or economical manner or that the quality of the commercial product will be acceptable on a consistent basis. Since commercial manufacturing of Mirel is still in its early stages, manufacturing costs at such a facility are uncertain and may ultimately be higher than we expect. While we believe that manufacturing costs will be reduced over time as we gain manufacturing know-how and improve our technology, we cannot be sure that we can manufacture Mirel in an economical manner. If ADM fails to develop adequate manufacturing capacity and expertise or fails to manufacture Mirel economically on a commercial scale or in commercial volumes, or if Telles fails to continue to contract for compounding services on acceptable terms, the commercialization of Mirel and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may not be successful in the development of our biomass biorefinery platform or our bio-engineered chemicals program. In addition to our development and scale-up work to produce Mirel through fermentation, we are also at an early stage of developing the technology and processes to produce biobased plastics in plant crops, including switchgrass, sugar cane and oilseed, and we are engaged in research applying our core capabilities in microbial engineering and plant transformation to develop biological routes to other chemicals and chemical intermediates. We are currently focused on the genetic and process engineering required in connection with such programs. Because we will be funding much, or perhaps all, of the development of such programs, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund such 27 Table of Contents programs to completion or to provide the support necessary to distribute, market and sell resulting products, if any, on a worldwide basis. These development programs will consume substantial resources. To date our efforts to produce biobased plastics in crops have focused primarily on the genetic engineering required to cause the crops to aggregate plastic in the plant mass during the life cycle of the plant. We have not yet achieved a high enough concentration of plastic in commercial crops to make the current technology and process economically feasible at a commercial scale. If we are able to complete the genetic engineering work that leads to such aggregation at acceptable levels, we will also need to perform additional process engineering so that plastic can be recovered from the harvested crops, processed and formulated as required to constitute a marketable product. Such engineering work may not be successful and we may not have the financial resources to fund such work. Our biomass biorefinery and chemicals development efforts are at a very early stage. The technological challenges associated with these programs are extraordinary and we may not be able to overcome these challenges. We will be required to invest a significant amount over a long period of time to complete such development work, if it can be completed at all. We cannot predict the costs of producing biobased plastics in plant crops or producing chemicals through biological routes, given the stage of development of these programs. The anticipated methods for manufacturing biobased plastics in crops, and for producing chemicals and energy, are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise and there are extensive regulatory requirements to be met. Given these uncertainties, we may not be able to successfully produce biobased plastics in plant crops or biosourced chemicals in an economical manner. If initial sales of Mirel are slower than anticipated, our financial results will be negatively affected. Telles will not begin to pay us royalties on sales of Mirel or reimburse us for the cost of services provided to Telles until the achievement of a milestone referred to in the Commercial Alliance Agreement as "First Commercial Sale." Achievement of this milestone requires the sale by Telles to third parties of at least one million pounds of Mirel manufactured at the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. Sales must meet certain criteria, including a minimum order size, product must be accepted by the customers in accordance with the terms of their contracts, and payment must be received from the customer in order for such sales to contribute towards the First Commercial Sale milestone. Generally, new product applications require a long lead time and sufficient quantities of polymer for development and qualification before customers enter into sales commitments. If there are difficulties or delays in the start-up of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility or other unforeseen issues that affect the ramp-up of commercial sales, the cost of our Telles support activities will almost certainly increase. We may incur additional unreimbursed pilot manufacturing, product development, sales and marketing costs until the Commercial Phase of the alliance begins, and the revenue from sales, if any, of Mirel and the distribution of profits, if any, to us will be delayed. We may not be able to develop manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet demand in an economical manner or at all. ADM has completed construction of the initial phase of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. We cannot assure you that ADM will provide the necessary funds to finance the remaining phases of construction or any improvements to or expansion of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility, or that we will be able to develop this manufacturing infrastructure in a timely or economical manner, or at all. ADM could experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. If the Commercial Manufacturing Facility is not constructed to its full design capacity of 110 million pounds, or does not achieve that capacity in actual operations, or if construction to full capacity is not completed in a timely manner, Mirel may not reach its full market potential because Telles may not be able to meet market demand for Mirel, and because Mirel 28 Table of Contents manufacturing costs may not be economical. Also, the expansion of a commercial-scale manufacturing facility is complex and expensive. If demand for Mirel increases beyond the scope of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility being built to serve Telles, we may incur significant expenses in the expansion and/or construction of manufacturing facilities and increases in personnel in order to increase manufacturing capacity. We may not achieve market acceptance of our products. Telles currently has only limited customer commitments for commercial quantities of Mirel. Market acceptance of Mirel and our future products will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, including among others: •public acceptance of such products; •ability to produce products of consistent quality that offer functionality comparable or superior to existing or new polymer products; •our ability to produce products fit for their intended purpose; •our ability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals for our products; •the speed at which potential customers qualify Mirel for use in their products; •our ability to meet customer demand for products with a favorable greenhouse gas profile; •pricing of our products compared to competitive products, including petroleum-based plastics; •the strategic reaction of companies that market competitive products; •our reliance on third parties who support or control distribution channels; and •general market conditions. Prospective customers are currently evaluating and performing tests on Mirel prior to making any large-scale purchase decisions. We may not be able to successfully demonstrate that our plastics have properties comparable or superior to those of environmentally sustainable competitors or similar to conventional petroleum-based plastics. There can be no assurance that products based on our technologies will be perceived as being comparable or superior to existing products or new products being developed by competing companies or that such products will otherwise be accepted by consumers. The market may not be willing to support premium prices to purchase biobased and biodegradable plastics. If there is not broad market acceptance of our products, we may not generate significant revenues. Generally, new product applications require a long lead time and sufficient quantities of polymer for development and qualification before customers enter into sales commitments. Delays in the availability of material for product development, compounding scale-up and marketing activities could delay or slow the ramp-up of commercial sales from the Commercial Manufacturing Facility. If the start of the Commercial Phase of the alliance is delayed as a result of such delays or for other reasons, we may incur additional unreimbursed product development and sales and marketing costs until the Commercial Phase of the alliance begins. In addition, if such delays occur, or if we are unable to obtain the anticipated premium pricing for Mirel, there could be a material adverse effect on the timing of the distribution of Telles profits, if any, to us. We may not be successful in the development of commercial formulations of Mirel. Mirel can be produced in a large number of different formulations. Each formulation results in a material that has different performance attributes, such as flexibility, hardness or clarity. As such, different formulations will have utility in different commercial applications. Formulation development is a time-consuming and expensive activity. The development of new formulations requires significant and 29 Table of Contents lengthy product development efforts, including planning, designing, developing and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. Although there are many potential applications for Mirel, our resource constraints require us to focus on specific formulations and to forgo other opportunities. We expect that one or more of the potential formulations we have developed or may in the future choose to develop will not be technologically feasible or will not achieve commercial acceptance, and we cannot predict which, if any, of our formulations we will successfully develop or commercialize. We have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities, which may make the commercialization of our products difficult. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities and virtually no distribution experience or capabilities. We will, in some instances, rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with our collaborative partners and other third parties. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon the success of the efforts of these third parties and our ability to augment our own resources by identifying and hiring new employees. If we are unable to develop or obtain access to sales and marketing expertise, sales of our products, if any, may be adversely affected. We rely heavily on ADM and may rely heavily on future collaborative partners. We entered into a strategic alliance with ADM to commercialize our first technology platform, and we may enter into strategic partnerships with other corporations: •to provide capital, equipment and facilities, •to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, •to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, •to provide access to raw materials, and •to support or provide sales and marketing services. We may not be successful in establishing or maintaining suitable partnerships to develop and commercialize our current and future research and development programs. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner's performance under any such arrangements would have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. The arrangement with ADM is, and arrangements with future collaborative partners may be, critical to our success in manufacturing our products and selling such products profitably. ADM and, we anticipate, our other future collaborative partners, will be permitted by contract to terminate their agreements with us for no reason and on limited notice. We and ADM have the ability to terminate the Commercial Alliance Agreement with 30 days notice if, based upon a change in circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the terminating party, the projected financial return from the commercial alliance is deemed by the terminating party to be either too uncertain or inadequate. We and ADM also have the ability to terminate the Commercial Alliance Agreement with 90 days notice in the case of a breach by the other party. We cannot control our collaborative partners' performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners' activities on behalf of any alliance. As a result of these disagreements, the performance of our programs may be adversely affected, programs may be delayed or terminated, or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own. Performance issues, program delay or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. 30 Table of Contents Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner, including possible disputes regarding the ownership of technology and other intellectual property developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. Our success will be influenced by the price of petroleum, the primary ingredient in conventional petroleum-based plastics, relative to corn sugar, the primary ingredient in Mirel. Our success will be influenced by the cost of Mirel relative to petroleum-based plastics. The cost of petroleum-based plastic is in part based on the price of petroleum. Mirel is primarily manufactured using corn sugar, an agricultural feedstock. ADM currently supplies all required agricultural feedstock as part of our strategic alliance. If the price of corn or corn sugar were to dramatically increase or if the price of petroleum decreases, Mirel may be less competitive relative to petroleum-based plastics. While we expect to be able to command a premium price for our environmentally sustainable products, a material decrease in the cost of conventional petroleum-based plastics may require a reduction in the prices of our products for them to remain attractive in the marketplace or reduce the size of our addressable market. Our future profitability is uncertain, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. We have had net operating losses since being founded in 1992. At December 31, 2009, our accumulated deficit was approximately $168 million. Since 1992, we have been engaged solely in research and development and other pre-commercial and early-stage commercial activities. As a part of our strategic alliance, ADM Polymer is constructing the commercial scale Commercial Manufacturing Facility for Mirel. The initial phase of construction of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility was only recently completed, and we expect that it will require an additional period of time to ramp up production and sales. Until such time, Telles will not have significant revenues from sales of Mirel. No Telles profits will be distributed to us until ADM's cost of constructing the Commercial Manufacturing Facility and any negative net cash flow of Telles funded by ADM have been returned to ADM. Because we have a limited history of commercial operations and we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenue to operate our business and become profitable. Our product revenue will be dependent on the successful completion of the scale-up and commercialization of Mirel through our strategic alliance with ADM, and other future products through other partnerships or joint ventures, if any, with third parties and separately for our own account. In addition, if we are unable to develop, commercialize and further advance technologies relating to the production of biobased plastics in crops and chemicals, or if sales of Mirel or such other products are not significant, we could have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses to perform research and product development and our inability to obtain additional research and development funding in connection with such products. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on: •the progress of our research and development programs for the production of biobased plastics in crops and for other chemical and chemical intermediate products; •the cost of building, operating and maintaining manufacturing and research facilities; 31 Table of Contents •the number of products that we attempt to develop; •the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights; •how competing technological and market developments affect our proposed products; and •the cost of obtaining licenses required to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable or achieve significant revenues. If we fail to achieve profitability or significant revenues, the market price of our common stock will likely decrease. We may need to secure additional funding and may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception in 1992 for our research and development activities. Although we believe our unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of approximately $92 million as of December 31, 2009, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 24 months, we may require significant additional financing in the future to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through the use of existing cash resources and through strategic collaborations, governmental research grants, and/or by licensing all or a portion of our programs or technology. We may also seek additional funds through private or public sales of our securities, or debt financings. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Further, additional funding may significantly dilute existing stockholders. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on our key technical and scientific personnel, including Dr. Oliver Peoples, our Chief Scientific Officer. Dr. Peoples possesses unique information related to our research and technology. Dr. Peoples is one of our founders and has led and directed many of our scientific research and development programs. Dr. Peoples has such particular knowledge in the research, development and intellectual property aspects in connection with our technology platforms, that in the case of the loss of his services we may be unable to readily find a suitable replacement with comparable knowledge and experience necessary to further our research and development programs. The loss of key personnel with know-how related to our manufacturing technology may also adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management, and marketing and sales personnel. Because of the unique talents and experience of many of our scientific, engineering and technical staff, competition for our personnel is intense. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have required expertise and skills could have a materially adverse affect on our research and development efforts and our business. We may not be able to obtain rights to intellectual property developed by others using our information and technology, which could limit our ability to compete. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, and other advisors. These agreements generally provide that 32 Table of Contents inventions conceived by that party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property or that we will have the option to license such rights. We also enter into material transfer agreements with certain potential customers and vendors, prohibiting the other party from disclosing or filing a patent that discloses certain results of their evaluation of our developmental materials. However, these agreements may not be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained intellectual property rights is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. The failure to obtain such rights for Metabolix or to prevent others from obtaining such rights could adversely affect our competitive position. Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties by keeping them as trade secrets or to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we plan to use such technologies. Legal means may afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Foreign jurisdictions may not afford the same protections as U.S. law, and we cannot ensure that foreign patent applications will have the same scope of the U.S. patents. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: •we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; •we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; •others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies not encompassed by our patents; •our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and •we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, we may be unable to protect certain of our intellectual property in the United States or in foreign countries. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. We could incur substantial costs to bring suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology and proprietary information, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We vigorously pursue confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our 33 Table of Contents collaborators, potential customers, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, our potential customers, or our strategic partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies, and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of development of our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. We and Telles currently have five registered trademarks in the United States and six pending trademark applications filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in addition to registrations and pending application in foreign jurisdictions. We expect to file additional applications as new trademarks are selected for our products, but because of the costs of filing and prosecuting such applications, there will be many countries in which we will choose not to file applications. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending trademark applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain trademarks, we may be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. A substantial portion of the technology used in our business is owned by or subject to retained rights of third parties. We have, and expect to have in the future, research and development agreements with academic institutions that retain rights to the developed intellectual property. The academic institutions generally retain ownership rights over the technology for use in non-commercial academic and research fields, including in some cases the right to license the technology to third parties for use in those fields. It is difficult to monitor and enforce such noncommercial academic and research uses, and we cannot predict whether the third party licensees would comply with the use restrictions of these licenses. We could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights against such licensees. In addition, even though the rights that academic institutions obtain are generally limited to the noncommercial academic and research fields, they may obtain rights to commercially exploit developed intellectual property in limited instances. Furthermore, under research and development agreements with academic institutions, our rights to intellectual property developed thereunder are not always certain, but instead may be in the form of an option to obtain license rights to such intellectual property. If we fail to exercise our option rights timely and/or we are unable to negotiate a license agreement, the academic institution may offer a license to the developed intellectual property to third parties for commercial purposes. Any such commercial exploitation could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. The academic institutions also generally have the right to terminate our license in the event that we fail to make required payments or otherwise breach the applicable agreements. The expiration of 34 Table of Contents patents licensed from third parties or the termination of those licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. With respect to inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under such federal funding agreements, the U.S. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the invention throughout the world. In addition, if we fail to comply with our reporting obligations or to adequately exploit the developed intellectual property under these federal funding agreements, the U.S. government may obtain additional rights to the developed intellectual property, including the right to take title to any patents filed by us or to permit others to commercially exploit the intellectual property itself. Furthermore, our ability to exclusively license or assign the intellectual property developed under these federal funding agreements to third parties may be limited or subject to the U.S. government's approval or oversight. These limitations could have a significant impact on the commercial value of the developed intellectual property. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in areas relevant to biobased plastics, chemicals and energy, their compositions, formulations and uses, and processes for their production. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents relating to biobased plastics. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. If third parties assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a materially adverse effect on our business. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. We cannot currently predict whether a third party will assert a claim against us, or pursue infringement litigation against us; nor can we predict the ultimate outcome of any such potential claims or litigation. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be adversely affected. While historically we have focused the majority of our efforts on research and development of processes to produce Mirel, we plan to grow by allocating additional resources to developing marketing and sales expertise, entering into additional collaborations with strategic partners, adding personnel with specific technological experience, and developing and commercializing additional products, such as biobased plastics in plant crops and biological production of other chemicals and chemical 35 Table of Contents intermediates from renewable resources. Our ability to grow in this manner will require that we manage a diverse range of relationships and projects, expand our personnel resources and facilities, and broaden our geographic presence. Our inability to do any of these could prevent us from successfully implementing our growth strategy, and our business could be adversely affected. We believe that sustained growth at a higher rate will place a strain on our management, as well as on our other human resources. To manage this growth, we must continue to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific, technical and operating personnel. If we are unable to hire at the required rate, we may be unable to staff and manage projects adequately. This may slow the development process, and result in the commercialization of fewer products or compromise the quality of our work. We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies and developing new products to meet those needs. The success of our business model depends on our ability to correctly identify market opportunities for biologically produced plastics, chemicals and energy. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so, in part because customers may perceive risks in adopting new materials, like Mirel, for use with existing products and because the markets for new materials and other products are not well-developed. The materials and manufacturing technologies we research and develop are new and are steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the demands in existing markets. Our existing products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers' requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify new opportunities as they arise for our products since future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. Our products are made using genetically-engineered systems and may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. Mirel is a new material produced from genetically-engineered microbes and genetically engineered corn used as a feedstock. In the future our products may be produced in genetically-engineered crops. We may incur liability and/or legal expenses if there are claims that our genetically-engineered crops damage the environment or contaminate other farm crops. Some countries have adopted regulations prohibiting or limiting the production of genetically-engineered crops and the sale of products made using genetically engineered organisms. Such regulations could harm our business and impair our ability to produce biobased plastics in that manner. The subject of genetic engineering of crops and other species has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the development and use of genetically-engineered organisms or products made from such organisms. Social concerns could adversely affect acceptance of our products. The manufacture, use, sale and marketing of Mirel is subject to government regulations in the U.S and other countries, including requirements for government approval of food contact applications. The failure to comply with governmental regulations or to obtain government approval for our products could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Governmental regulation or negative publicity could delay, reduce or eliminate market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 36 Table of Contents We face and will face substantial competition in several different markets that may adversely affect our results of operations. The plastics, chemicals and energy that we have developed or plan to develop will compete with other technologically innovative products as well as conventional petroleum-based plastics, chemicals and energy. We face and will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in the biodegradable, renewable resource-based plastic segment, within which there are three distinct technologies: PHA, PLA and starch-based biodegradables. While some of our competitors' existing products that are produced from renewable feedstocks do not have the range of properties that Mirel offers, such products are, nonetheless, suitable for use in a range of products at a price which may be lower than our premium priced product offerings. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Kaneka and Tianan in the PHA plastic segment, NatureWorks, Mitsui Chemical, Toyota, Novamont, and Stanelco in PLA and starch-based biodegradables, as well as all of the producers of petroleum-based plastics. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. We are subject to significant foreign and domestic government regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations, and compliance or failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. Our current and planned activities involve the use of a broad range of materials that are, or may be, considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we and ADM are subject to a number of foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment, the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes, and health and safety, including Food and Drug Administration regulations related to food contact materials. Compliance with these laws and regulations could be costly and could delay or even preclude commercialization of our products for certain applications. There can be no assurance that we will be able to meet the necessary regulatory requirements for commercialization of Mirel for relevant food contact applications in a timely manner or at an acceptable cost. If we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws, we could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us, or our strategic partners, from conducting business. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. 37 Table of Contents Compliance with foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations represents a small part of our present budget. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, however, a government entity may levy a fine on us or require us to take costly measures to ensure compliance. Any such fine or expenditure may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulation could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, capital expenditures, or restrictions and delays in the development of our products and properties. We may not have adequate insurance and may have substantial exposure to payment of product liability claims. The testing, manufacture, marketing, and sale of our products and products sold by our licensees may involve product liability risks. Although we currently have product liability insurance covering claims up to $4 million per occurrence and in the aggregate, and Telles has product liability insurance covering claims up to $2 million per occurrence and $50 million in the aggregate, we may not be able to maintain this product liability insurance at an acceptable cost, if at all. In addition, this insurance may not provide adequate coverage against potential losses. If claims or losses exceed our liability insurance coverage, we may go out of business. Potential future acquisitions could be difficult to integrate, divert the attention of key personnel, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and impair our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may consider acquisitions of companies, technologies and assets that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, any of which could harm our business, including: •difficulties in integrating the operations, technologies, existing contracts, accounting and personnel of the target company and realizing the anticipated benefits of the combined businesses; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •the price we pay or other resources that we devote may exceed the value we realize, or the value we could have realized if we had allocated the purchase price or other resources to another opportunity; •potential loss of key employees, collaborators and strategic alliances from either our current business or the acquired company's business; •assumption of unanticipated problems or latent liabilities; and •inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition costs. Acquisitions also frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets which are subject to potential impairments in the future that could harm our financial results. In addition, if we finance acquisitions by issuing convertible debt or equity securities, our existing stockholders may be diluted, which could lower the market price of our common stock. As a result, if we fail to properly evaluate acquisitions or investments, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of any such acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. The failure to successfully evaluate and execute acquisitions or investments or otherwise adequately address these risks could materially harm our business and financial results. 38 Table of Contents Each segment of our operations is currently conducted at a single location, which makes us susceptible to disasters or other disruptions. ADM will initially conduct all commercial manufacturing of Mirel at the Commercial Manufacturing Facility in Clinton, Iowa, and all compounding services will initially be provided by a single toll compounding facility. A natural disaster or other business interruption at either of these sites could significantly impact Mirel production and sales. Our research and development operations are located at a single facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We take precautions to safeguard our facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of critical research results and of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, or a disruption due to mechanical failure, human error, business failure of a contractor, labor strikes, vandalism, or other causes, could damage or destroy our equipment, inventory, our microbial strains, plants or other biological materials, or result in the loss of data from our information technology systems. This could delay our research and development programs and could cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against natural disasters or business interruptions may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholders with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: •reported progress of our business and technology development, including ramp up of operations of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility, relative to investor expectations; •changes in earnings estimates, investors' perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts' earnings estimates; •quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; •general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; •future sales of our common stock; •future issuance and/or sale of preferred stock; •announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; •commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; •any major change in our board of directors or management; •changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; •announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation involving our intellectual property; •a lack of, limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage; •developments in our industry and general economic conditions; and •the other factors described elsewhere in these "Risk Factors." 39 Table of Contents As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public's perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may have a materially adverse affect on the market price of our common stock. Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this "Risk Factors" section and, in particular, the following risks: •failure to estimate or control contract costs; •adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes; •expenses related to acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures; •other one-time financial charges; •fluctuations due to revenue recognition under strategic alliance agreements; •fluctuations due to the effects of inflation; •failure to produce commercialized products or to find customers for these products; and •that some of our programs are supported by government funding, which is unpredictable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law and our shareholder rights plan might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: •limitations on the removal of directors; •a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; •advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; •the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; •the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; •a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and •the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 40 Table of Contents The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. We have adopted a shareholder rights plan, the purpose of which is, among other things, to enhance our Board's ability to protect shareholder interests and to ensure that shareholders receive fair treatment in the event any coercive takeover attempt of the Company is made in the future. The adoption of the plan was intended, in part, to address the risk that a third party could acquire our Company at a price that does not reflect the full value of our business and our technologies. The shareholder rights plan could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, our Company or a large block of our Company's common stock. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our Company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders' ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 