ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves various risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in this section. The information discussed below should be considered carefully with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents and materials we file with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information we may publicly disseminate from time to time. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Any of the following risks or uncertainties that develop into actual events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, or on the market price of our common stock. Our industry includes many large companies that have significantly greater resources and other competitive advantages, and we may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. We compete with large, well-capitalized, multinational corporations such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions, McKesson Corp., and Philips Medical Systems. These competitors have significantly greater brand recognition and more established distribution networks and relationships with health care providers. As our market grows, it may attract other competitors with substantial resources, such as large information technology, or IT, integration companies. Because of their greater resources, many of our existing or potential competitors can respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or product lines and changes in customer requirements. These companies may also be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, sales and marketing, and patent prosecution and litigation, and they can also finance capital equipment sales for their customers. In addition, some of our competitors bundle their image management software products with their sales of digital imaging devices at little or no extra cost. This practice may limit our opportunity to compete for customers who are also purchasing these devices. Our ability to market and sell our solution successfully to prospective customers depends, in part, on persuading 13 Table of Contents these customers to separate the purchase of digital imaging devices from the selection and purchase of related software and services. Because we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution and support capabilities of our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of our industry and changes in economic conditions in general. Adverse changes with respect to these factors may reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and affect our financial condition. Our industry is cyclical in nature and is affected by overall economic conditions in general. A general economic decline could cause hospitals and other purchasers of our products to reduce or delay information technology related spending. Because the purchase of our software solutions involves a significant financial commitment by a customer, financial pressures that adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services could have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services. A reduction in such overall demand could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Changes in our primary market for PACS radiology systems have resulted in a significant decline in PACS radiology system sales orders. Our historical primary market for sales of our PACS radiology systems — large hospitals and large hospital networks — entered a mature phase in 2007, resulting in a shift of demand from new systems to replacement of existing legacy systems. This shift in market demand lengthened the sales cycle for our PACS radiology systems and resulted in a significant decline in our PACS radiology system sales in 2007. We expect these conditions in the large system radiology market to continue at least through 2008, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes quarterly results difficult to predict and could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors which are outside our control. Comparing our operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Each of the following factors, among others, could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter: • Long Sales Cycle: Many of our customers are large organizations with lengthy and unpredictable purchasing processes. Because our solution is a major capital expenditure involving a multi-year commitment, it can take a significant period of time to close a sale. We typically have to educate our prospective customers on the benefits of our solution and obtain approval from senior management. Consolidation in the health care industry may also delay or extend the sales cycle for affected customers. As a result, our solution has a typical sales cycle, from the initial contact to the placing of an order, of six to nine months, and sometimes much longer. This long and unpredictable sales cycle may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. • Timing of Revenue: A significant portion of our revenue each quarter comes from sales made in prior periods, as we implement our solution and perform services under multi-year maintenance and support agreements with our customers. As a result, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our products in a particular quarter will not necessarily be reflected in revenue in that quarter and may adversely affect our revenue and profitability in future quarters. Moreover, a majority of our customers now purchase perpetual licenses from us. Unlike term licenses, where license revenue and certain implementation fees are recognized over the life of an initial term typically ranging from two to seven years, with perpetual licenses the full software license fee and associated implementation fees are recognized as revenue in the month when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Because revenue recognition may not be achieved in the period expected, our revenue could fluctuate from quarter to quarter solely due to the timing of satisfying our revenue recognition criteria. 14 Table of Contents • Implementation Delays: Once we enter into a customer contract, our recognition of revenue from that contract depends, to a significant extent, on the timing of our implementation of the project. Customer implementation schedules may be delayed for reasons beyond our control, such as customer scheduling changes, delays in acceptance testing by customers, unusual integration issues, or delays in obtaining equipment from third-party vendors. Delays in the implementation of a particular project may require us to delay the recognition of anticipated revenue from one quarter to another and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly results also may fluctuate due to other factors, such as the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements by us or our competitors and changes in the mix of our software and third-party components, which have significantly lower gross margins, included in the systems we sell. If our revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter, we may have difficulty managing our business, and our quarterly results could fall below expectations of investors and stock market analysts which could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our products are complex and are operated in a wide variety of network configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Because our software is complex, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur when we first introduce our products or when we release new versions. As we develop product enhancements and extensions, the complexity of our software may increase. Our products often are installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, any of which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. In the past, we have encountered failures in certain of our product offerings after their installation, and we have been required to expend significant resources to repair the problem and sustain the customer relationship. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after general release. The occurrence or existence of such errors, failures, or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, contract cancellations, loss of or delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers or others. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in one of our customers’ medical image storage systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our solution, the market perception of our products and services could be harmed. We may not be able to respond to changes in our industry, competitive technologies, changes in customer requirements, or evolving industry standards, which would result in reduced revenue and profit margins. Because our industry is subject to rapid technological change, we must constantly monitor changes in industry standards, customer requirements, and other matters. If we fail to anticipate and respond adequately to these changes in a timely manner, our business and operating results could suffer a material adverse effect. Although we currently support emerging industry standards, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conform to future evolving standards in a timely fashion, or that such conformity, if achieved, will benefit our competitive position in the market. In anticipation of new product introductions by us or our competitors, customers could refrain from purchasing our existing products. New products could render certain of our existing products obsolete, or we may fail to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted by our customers. Furthermore, as the market for our solution matures, we may be subject to pricing pressures, and our revenues and profits may decline. Any of these events could delay or prevent our customers from acquiring our solution or require us to reduce the price of our solution, either of which could lead to a decrease in revenue and profit margins. If the market for digital medical imaging products and services does not develop as we expect, our business strategy may be ineffective, and we may not be able to grow our business. We operate in a developing industry where customer acceptance and market demand is still evolving. The digital medical imaging solutions market is still developing due to: • the availability of high performance computers and storage systems at reduced prices; 15 Table of Contents • the continuing development of industry standards for the generation, transmission, and storage of medical imaging data; • changing dynamics in the health care industry, including consolidation and third-party reimbursement, which are driving increased automation across multiple sites; and • changing medical practices, including demand for more and better medical imaging. There can be no assurance that this market will continue to develop in the manner we anticipate, that the market will provide growth opportunities for us, or that our business strategies will be successful. If the market for digital medical imaging products and services fails to develop as we expect, our business, results of operations, and financial condition are likely to be materially and adversely affected. The recent decline in the market price of our common stock may impede our ability to execute our business plan and create adverse effects on our results of operations and financial condition. We have recently experienced a substantial decline in our stock price, which may make it more difficult to raise equity capital, pursue strategic acquisitions of other businesses, and impede our revenue growth and our ability to compete in our markets. We may be unwilling to sell our shares or issue shares as consideration in an acquisition transaction at low prices, and investors or potential acquisition targets may pursue other alternatives as a result. In addition, a low stock price may indicate that the recorded value of our goodwill and other assets is impaired, which would result in revaluation of those assets and a potentially adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. One of our largest stockholders has nominated a competing slate of directors for election in conjunction with this year’s annual meeting of stockholders. Oliver Press Partners, LLC beneficially owns 3,030,860 shares, representing 14.2%, of our outstanding common stock. On February 15, 2008, Oliver Press Partners nominated a slate of three potential board members to compete for the three seats up for election at the annual meeting, which includes the seat held by our current Chief Executive Officer and President. The candidates proposed by Oliver Press Partners are currently being evaluated by our nominating committee and board of directors. We cannot predict the outcome of any such election, but if Oliver Press Partners’ slate of nominees obtains more votes than the slate of directors that we nominate for re-election, then the composition of our board of directors will change substantially, which could result in a change to our overall strategic direction. Additionally, we will incur significant additional costs, including legal and other advisory fees, and will experience management and employee distraction that may negatively impact our operating results as a result of these matters. We may not be successful in implementing the expansion of our sales and marketing efforts into new market segments, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Historically, we have focused our sales and marketing efforts on large, multi-site health care providers, but over the past year we began implementation of a plan to expand our sales and marketing efforts into the smaller hospital segment, and we may in the future expand our sales and marketing efforts into additional market segments. This type of expansion is subject to many of the risks inherent in establishing a new business enterprise, and acceptance of our products and services in new market segments will depend on our ability to, among other things, successfully: • refine and adapt our products and services for new or different applications; • offer our products and services at price points that are competitive in the market segment; • create and develop demand for and market acceptance of our products and services in the market segment; 16 Table of Contents • market, promote, and distribute our products and services, and establish public awareness of our brand in the market segment; • compete with other companies already in the market segment; and • establish and maintain sufficient internal marketing, sales, and customer service infrastructures to support these efforts. Although customers in the small hospital market segment are closely related to the large, multi-site health care providers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement our expansion plans and enter this market segment. Successful implementation of this and other expansion plans will require considerable resources and expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, if we are unable to successfully enter the smaller hospital market segment, it could affect the execution of our overall growth strategy, and we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past. We have incurred substantial operating losses in each fiscal year since our inception in December 1998, and it is possible that we will continue to incur operating losses in the future. As a result of our operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $64.5 million at December 31, 2007. If our revenue does not grow to offset our expenses or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may incur substantial additional operating losses. Our ability to achieve and maintain annual profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to market successfully our solution, implement our plan to enter the smaller hospital market segment, create new product offerings, respond to competitive developments, and attract and retain qualified sales, technical, and management employees. Even though we may achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations on an annual basis. We may not be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms to fund our operations and develop product enhancements, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. We expect our cash resources and our existing line of credit arrangements to be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. We may need to raise additional funds, however, through public or private debt or equity financings, strategic relationships, or other arrangements in order to, among other things: • develop new technologies; • enhance existing product lines, such as expanding our advanced visualization tools product line to apply to additional clinical specialties; • fund additional sales and marketing programs; or • hire additional personnel, particularly to expand sales, marketing, and research and development. If it becomes necessary to raise additional funds, our ability to operate our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to identify additional sources of capital to fund these activities on acceptable terms. The loss of Ascension Health or other major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition because portions of our future revenues are tied to continuing relationships with significant customers. We have historically depended on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and we are dependent on Ascension Health for a large portion of the revenue to come from our contracted backlog. Contracted future revenue from Ascension Health was approximately $32.2 million, or 22%, of our contracted backlog at December 31, 2007. In addition, our future revenue and growth significantly depend on our ability to sell add-on functionality and new products to existing multi-facility customers such as Ascension Health. 17 Table of Contents As a result, the loss of Ascension Health or any other major customers or their failure to renew maintenance and support agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. In the future we may undertake additional acquisitions, which could result in integration risks, operating difficulties, dilution, or other adverse financial consequences. In November 2005, we acquired Camtronics, which added a new suite of cardiology tools to our advanced visualization software offering, increased our customer base by approximately 300 medical facilities, and increased our employee headcount by 212 employees. We may undertake additional acquisitions if we identify companies with desirable and compatible applications, products, services, businesses, or technologies. However, identification and consummation of an acquisition may impose significant strains on our management, operating systems and financial resources. The pursuit of an acquisition may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses identifying, investigating, and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. If we acquire an additional business, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operation or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. In either event, our business operations and financial condition could suffer a material adverse effect. In addition, an acquisition could result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Acquisition financing, if needed, may not be available on favorable terms. Further, there can be no assurance that a future acquisition will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results, particularly during periods in which the operations of the acquired business are being integrated into our operations. We are dependent on our senior executive management, and the loss of any member of senior executive management may prevent us from managing and growing our businesses effectively. Our success depends largely on the continued service of our senior executive management, including Charles A. Jett, Jr., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Chris E. Perkins, our Chief Operating Officer. We have entered into executive employment agreements with these and other key members of senior executive management. Terms of the employment agreements with Mr. Jett and Mr. Perkins are two years and one year, respectively, with automatic renewal on a day-by-day basis thereafter unless we or they give notice to stop the automatic renewal. The loss of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to replace any member of senior executive management in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. We depend on highly specialized personnel, and the loss or failure to identify, hire, motivate, and retain additional highly specialized personnel could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future success and the execution of our growth strategy depend on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate, and retain highly specialized personnel for technical and sales positions within our organization. For example, when hiring an advanced visualization software engineer, we generally seek individuals with advanced post-graduate degrees in specialized fields. We also must identify experienced candidates for sales positions who can effectively communicate the cost, clinical, and information technology benefits of our products to multiple constituents at our target customers. Our competitors, employers in other industries, academic institutions, and governmental entities and organizations also often seek persons with similar qualifications. As a result, we may not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need in a timely manner. In addition, to hire, motivate and retain these personnel, we believe we must provide them with a competitive compensation package, which may include stock-based incentives, such as restricted stock or stock options. Increases in shares available for issuance under our stock incentive plans generally will require stockholder approval, and our stockholders may not approve future increases. The accounting for stock options 18 Table of Contents may cause us to issue fewer stock options and rely more on restricted stock grants instead, which may be less attractive to potential employees. If this occurs, we may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Changes in our third-party reselling arrangements may affect our revenues and our ability to deliver a complete solution, which may adversely impact our revenue and cause customer dissatisfaction. We resell third-party computer hardware components from numerous companies, including Dell Inc., IBM Corporation, Network Appliances, Inc., EMC Corporation and Carestream Health, Inc., as part of our solution. As the cost of third-party hardware components continues to decline, our revenue from third-party component sales and installation and, consequently, our overall revenue per individual sale may also decline. If we cease selling third-party hardware components as part of our solution or if the vendors of these products, some of whom are also competitors, curtail or delay our ability to resell them as part of our solution, we may be limited in our ability to provide our customers with a complete solution, and our revenue, profit, and reputation may decline. Our implementation capabilities and performance also may be adversely affected if our customers are required to obtain the necessary third-party components on their own. Our customers depend on third-party reimbursement. A reduction or other change in third-party reimbursements to our customers could negatively affect our business by reducing the demand for our products or adversely impacting our pricing. We sell our products to hospitals, clinics, imaging centers and other health care providers which typically bill various third-party payors, such as government health programs, private health insurance plans, managed care organizations and other similar programs. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical services and, in some instances, have put pressure on service providers to lower their prices or reduce their services. We cannot predict what changes third-party payors will make to their reimbursement methods. Third-party payors can indirectly affect the pricing or relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursements, may decrease the amount which physicians, clinics and hospitals are able to recover for such services, and may reduce the number and complexity of medical images. A reduction in the use or reimbursement of digital medical images may lead to our customers decreasing their capital investment budgets, which could significantly reduce the demand for our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products, if such clearances are delayed, or if our products are subject to FDA recall, we will be unable to distribute and market some of our products. Our advanced visualization software products are subject to FDA regulation of medical devices. Medical devices are a highly regulated class of products. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, and record-keeping procedures for medical devices, including imaging software and systems. The process of obtaining FDA marketing clearance for new products and new applications for existing products can be time consuming and expensive. The FDA has granted us marketing clearance, pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification process, for our currently marketed uses of our advanced visualization tools. Before we can market other clinical uses of our advanced visualization tools, generally we must seek 510(k) clearance for the additional clinical uses. We cannot assure you that the FDA will grant clearance for future uses of our advanced visualization tools, that such clearance will be broad enough to allow all the requested new uses, that such clearance will not be delayed, or that once clearance is obtained, it will not be necessary for us or the FDA to recall one or more of our products. Also, the FDA may not grant clearance with respect to our future products or enhancements, or future FDA reviews may involve delays that could adversely affect our ability to market such future products or enhancements. Moreover, our future products or enhancements may be subject to the FDA’s more lengthy and expensive pre-market approval process if we are unable to demonstrate that such products and enhancements meet the FDA’s requirements regarding similarity to pre-existing approved devices. Furthermore, it is possible that even if we receive required regulatory clearances and approvals from the FDA to market a given product, these clearances and approvals may include limitations on the indicated uses 19 Table of Contents of the product. Also, the FDA can withdraw product clearances and approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, quality system manufacturing regulations, unapproved manufacturing changes, or, if unforeseen problems arise after initial approval, the FDA could also limit or prevent our distribution of products. We might conduct a voluntary recall or the FDA could recall such products if it deems them defective, a health risk, or in violation of FDA regulations. These regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and any such future interpretations could adversely affect us. The FDA may also inspect us and our facilities from time to time, or the facilities of our suppliers, to determine whether we are in compliance with quality system regulations and current good manufacturing practices. If the FDA determines that we are not in compliance with such regulations, it could require us to correct these deficiencies or could suspend the manufacture and sale of the products. The agency could also impose civil penalties, including fines, recall or seize products and, in extreme cases, impose criminal sanctions. If we fail to comply with other potentially applicable health care regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We do not deliver health care services directly to patients, control health care referrals, or submit claims to or otherwise bill Medicare, Medicaid, or any other third-party payors. However, we have engaged certain physicians to serve as consultants on our behalf, entered into service agreements and license agreements with health care entities, and had certain of our products evaluated at health care facilities. Because of the breadth of many health care laws and regulations, and their potential impact on our customers, we cannot assure you that such laws and regulations will not apply to our business, either directly or indirectly. We could be subject to health care fraud and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the following: • The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the exchange of anything of value with the intent to encourage utilization of services payable under a federal health care program. Courts have construed this statute as being implicated even when only one of the purposes of one of the parties is to encourage patient referrals or other federal health care business, even if legitimate purposes also exist for the arrangement. • The Federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the Stark Law, prohibits (absent an applicable Stark exception) referrals for designated health services reimbursable under Medicare or Medicaid by a physician to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship. • The Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, has increased the scope of federal fraud-and-abuse laws by applying them to prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with any health care benefit program, not only federal health care programs. Although we are not a covered entity that is directly subject to liability under the HIPAA privacy and security standards, we could be impacted by such regulations through contractual relations with those of our customer base who are covered entities. • State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback, self-referral, and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor (including commercial insurers). State laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA (thus complicating compliance efforts) and some of which may apply to us directly, may also affect our operations. If our operations are found to violate any of these laws or other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any such occurrences could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Determining such risk is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts, and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. Any action against us for violating such laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend such an action, could cause us to incur significant 20 Table of Contents legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and electronic transaction laws may require us to modify our operations with respect to the handling of patient information. Implementing these modifications may prove costly and time consuming. At this time, we are not able to determine the full consequences to us, including the total cost of compliance, of these various federal and state laws. Product liability claims may require us to pay damages, reduce the demand for our products, and harm our reputation. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims and other adverse effects of product failures. We provide products that, among other things, assist in clinical decision-making, provide access to patient medical image information and assist in creating patient treatment plans. Although no one has brought a claim against us to date alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect or other failure of any of our products, our customers or their patients may assert claims against us in the future if our software fails to provide accurate and timely information. A product liability claim can cause us to incur significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the claim’s merit or eventual outcome. If we are required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage to one or more plaintiffs, such payments could significantly harm our financial condition. A product liability claim also could harm our reputation and lead to a decline in revenue. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors, or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas to compete more effectively with us. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage based on our intellectual property. In addition, we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our software technology. We cannot assure you that these patent applications will result in patents being issued in the U.S., Europe, or Japan, or that such patents will be issued in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if we obtain such patents, they may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Additionally, because we use or include open source software, which is not proprietary, in the components of some of our products, our competitors may freely use such open source software, and in certain circumstances may freely use such components. This could harm our competitive position, decrease our market share or otherwise harm our business. The prosecution and enforcement of copyrights and patents relating to components licensed or sold to us by third parties is not within our control, and without these components, we may be unable to provide our solution or maintain our technological advantage. If the third-party suppliers of components used by us fail to protect their patents or copyrights or if these components are found to infringe on the rights of another party, the functionality of our products could suffer, and our ability to bring new and existing products to market could be delayed or even prohibited. 21 Table of Contents Our operating results could suffer if we become subject to a protracted infringement claim or litigation or a significant damage award. Substantial intellectual property litigation and threats of litigation exist in our industry. We expect that digital image visualization software, image management software, and open source software products may become increasingly subject to third-party infringement or other claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products increases. Any claims, with or without merit, could have the following negative consequences: • costly litigation and damage awards; • diversion of management attention and resources; • product sales and distribution delays or suspensions, either temporary or permanent; and • the need to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful infringement or other claim against us could result in a substantial damage award and materially harm our financial condition. Our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could prevent us from selling our products and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our directors may not be held personally liable for certain actions, which could discourage stockholder suits against them. As permitted by Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our directors shall not be personally liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with limited exceptions. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, we provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers. Delaware law and certain anti-takeover provisions of our corporate documents could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or a change in control even if it would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that may delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control that is not first approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our stockholders receive an attractive offer for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our stockholders believe the takeover may be in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain approval from our board of directors prior to pursuing a transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control include the following: • our board of directors may issue 200,000 shares of blank check preferred stock without stockholder approval and that may be substantially dilutive or contain preferences or rights objectionable to an acquiror; • our board of directors is comprised of classes of directors with staggered, three-year terms so that only a portion of our directors is subject to election at each annual meeting; • our board of directors can amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders; • stockholders cannot act by written consent; • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors for election or to submit proposals at stockholder meetings; 22 Table of Contents • we may be obligated to make payments under executive employment agreements in the event of a change in control; and • some Delaware statutes restrict or prohibit certain transactions with affiliated or interested parties and permit the adoption of “poison pills” without stockholder approval. These provisions could also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these provisions may also entrench our management by preventing or frustrating any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 