Item 1A . RISK FACTORSIn general, an investment in our stock involves the assumption of risk, which can be characterized as the potential for the value of our stock to deviate from expected outcomes. The risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and capital investment and financing plans. We also may be adversely affected by risks not currently known or risks that we do not currently consider material to our business.General Investment RiskChanges in global, national and regional economic conditions, as well as volatility in financial markets, can create circumstances where our stock price deviates from expected outcomes. Such deviations, positive or negative, can be significant. Changes in government regulation can also affect our operations, which could adversely impact cash flows, asset values and the value of our shares. The following are some of the more important general business and investment risk factors that could affect our business and the value of our shares. •General Market Disruption. Disruptions in the financial and investment markets where our stock trades can result from geopolitical turmoil, elections, political events, social unrest or changing societal attitudes. These disruptions can be characterized by changing or volatile market conditions, which can include large and rapid declines in market indices and investment values. At times, these disruptions create disorderly market conditions and can lead to loss of investment capital. These market disruptions may result in your not being able to affect purchase or sales transactions at desired prices or to determine a fair price for your investment in our shares. Placing contingent orders, such as "stop-loss" orders, will not necessarily limit your losses, because your "stop-loss" orders may be impossible to execute under adverse market conditions. •Electronic Exchange Trading. Our shares are traded on markets which are supported by computer-based systems for the order-routing, execution, matching, registration or clearing of trades. As with all computer-based systems, there is potential for temporary disruption or failure, including disruptions from physical threats to the stock exchange, or unusual trading in derivative markets. The result of any system disruption may be that your order is either not executed according to your instructions, or not executed at all. Some exchanges utilize trading rules designed to govern rapid fluctuation in share value; for example, the rules of a particular exchange may provide for "circuit breakers" where trading is restricted at times of rapid price movements. The effects of system interruptions and exchange-specific trading rules may cause disruptions which could adversely impact your investment in our shares. •Monetary Policy Initiatives. Central banks around the world have adopted monetary policy initiatives aimed at creating financial stability in support of their respective economies. Such policy initiatives include the increase of liquidity in the banking sector to support lending and mortgage loan activity, asset purchases to lower long-term interest rates, and other market intervention to support financial stability. All of these activities are believed to benefit financial investments, including real estate investments, but the benefits are often segment-specific based on the particular monetary policy initiatives. Future adjustments in central banks’ policies will impact local and global financial markets and these policy changes could adversely impact your investment in our shares. •Government Regulation. Government regulation and uncertainty about proposed regulation significantly impact private sector investment decisions and outcomes. For example, government initiatives designed to address global climate change could negatively impact the anticipated cash flows from investment in new power generation facilities. The result of such regulation could adversely impact the cost and availability of electricity needed to operate our buildings. As such, pending and unforeseen changes in government regulation could adversely impact the value of our shares.Real Estate Investment Risks4We are in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors and are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate. The following are some of the more important industry risk factors that could affect our business and financial condition. •Competitive Industry. We compete in a variety of service disciplines within the real estate industry, each highly competitive on a national, regional and local level. Our competitors include: oMulti-national firms with U.S.-based operationsoNational, regional and local real estate service providers oInstitutional lendersoInsurance companiesoInvestment banking firmsoInvestment managers oAccounting firms Many of our competitors are larger than we are, with substantially greater financial resources and a lower cost of capital. Consequently, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively in our established markets, either on an overall basis or in our respective business segments. Our inability to compete effectively could adversely impact current fee levels, market share, or the ability to grow our business in new markets.•High Rate of Employee Turnover. We operate in an industry that has historically been highly competitive in securing qualified personnel with the required technical skills and experience. As a result, we may not be able to find qualified labor, which could limit our growth ability. We expect labor costs will continue to increase in the foreseeable future. Our inability to cost effectively recruit, train and retain necessary personnel could harm our business, our ability to compete in our markets, and our ability to obtain new customers.•Success Dependant on Properties Managed. We could be adversely affected by the nonperformance or the deteriorating financial condition of certain of our clients. The revenue we generate from our property management fees is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will depend on factors that are partially or completely outside of our control.•Company Liability. We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation against us remains high. At any time we could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that we did not fulfill our contractual or statutory obligations. In addition, we hire and supervise third party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our properties and the properties owned by our third party clients. We may be subject to claims from others for the actions or failures of third party contractors hired by us. •Insurance Coverage. We currently carry comprehensive insurance, including liability, fire and extended coverage in amounts we reasonably estimate will substantially cover the replacement value of our buildings and improvements, and to protect against the kinds of liability that owners and developers of real estate properties are likely to confront. We may become jointly and severally liable for any uninsured or underinsured personal injury, death or property damage claims associated with our properties. We believe our properties are adequately insured, but there are certain losses for which insurance may not be available or, if available, not economically viable. If an uninsured loss occurs, or a loss is not paid due to insurer insolvency, we could experience a significant loss of invested capital and potential revenue from these properties, and could potentially remain obligated under any recourse debt associated with the property.•Catastrophic Loss Coverage. Many of our properties are located in areas of the United States that have increased risk of catastrophic losses and natural disasters, including earthquakes, hurricanes, high winds and floods. Such an event could cause significant damage or complete destruction to our properties. Because these types of losses are uncertain, they can be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive. Due to the cost of such catastrophic loss coverage and the high deductibles associated with most policies, we do not carry such insurance unless required by a lender.5•New Markets. Properties that we acquire may be located in new areas where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market.•Illiquidity of Real Estate Investments. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid, and therefore we have limited ability to vary our portfolio quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions.•Expiration of Leases. Upon expiration of leases for space located in our properties, the premises may not be re-let or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. If we cannot obtain another tenant with comparable needs, we may need to modify the property for a different use, which could involve a significant capital expenditure and a delay in releasing the property. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of their leases.•Vacancy. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space we have in our properties. If the vacancy continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to meet our operational needs. In addition, the resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property.Company-Specific RisksCertain factors unique to the operations and reputation of our company can have a significant impact on our business and the value of our shares. The following are some of the important company-specific risks associated with our business. •Hiring and Retention. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain our executive officers and other key employees, and to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit or retain sufficiently qualified personnel, which could harm our business.•Internal Controls. Failure to maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal controls over financial reporting could have an adverse effect on our operations and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, effectively prevent fraud, and operate successfully as a public company.We have developed internal control improvement initiatives to remediate weaknesses and deficiencies identified and to enhance the overall financial control environment. Our management is actively committed to and engaged in the implementation and execution of remediation efforts. There can, however, be no assurance that our remediation efforts will be successful.•Nonpayment of Cash Dividends on Common Stock. We have no plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and, therefore, investors will have to look to stock appreciation for return on investments. We currently intend to retain all future earnings to fund the development and growth of our business and to meet current debt obligations. Investors must rely on sales of common stock held after price appreciation (which may never occur) in order to realize a return on their investment.•NYSE Notices of Non-compliance. We have received notices from the NYSE MKT (“Exchange”) advising us of non-compliance with the following sections of the Exchange’s Company Guide:◦Sections 134 and 1101 require us to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 and our Quarterly Reports on Form10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2014 and June 30, 2014. Based upon our correspondence and communication with the Exchange, we have received an extension of time until October 31, 2014 for the filing of our 2013 Form 10-K, and if that deadline is met, an extension to December 31, 2014 to file our 2014 quarterly reports for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2014. Additionally, the late filing of reports with the SEC could result in a technical default of the Company’s various debt obligations.◦Due to the losses incurred during our five most recent fiscal years, we are in violation of Section 1003 (a) (iii) which requires us to maintain stockholders' equity of at least $6,000,000.◦We are in violation of Section 1003(f)(iv) for unpaid listing fees totaling $42,000. Our continued listing on the exchange is predicated on us paying all outstanding listing fees to the Exchange no later than November 3, 2014.6As a result of these non-compliance issues, we could lose our common shares listing on the Exchange depending on a number of factors, including, but not limited to, our failure to comply with the plans of compliance which have been submitted to the Exchange outlining our objectives to correct the noted deficiencies and pay the fees due by the deadlines. The loss of our listing on the Exchange could have an adverse impact on the liquidity and market price of the Company’s common stock.Delisting our common stock could negatively impact us by: ◦reducing the liquidity and market price of our common stock◦reducing the number of investors willing to hold or acquire our common stock, and correspondingly impact our ability to raise equity financing◦decreasing the amount of news and analyst coverage ◦loss of confidence by current and prospective suppliers, and customers◦inability to attract and retain personnel by means of equity compensationAs of January 1, 2014 through April 15, 2014, the average daily trading volume for our common shares was approximately 32,000 shares with an average daily closing price of $1.68. The average daily trading volume and daily closing average price per share of our common shares during the annual periods 2012 and 2013 was 3,038 shares and $4.52, and 6,864 shares and $2.37, respectively. We cannot guarantee the value of our shares will return nor have any value should trading of our shares be reestablished. As a result, it may be difficult for holders of our listed securities to sell their securities at prices they find attractive, or at all.•Personal Interest and Conflict. Certain of our officers and members of our board of directors may have personal interests that conflict with the interests of our stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and our Operating Partnership, such as interests in the timing and pricing of property sales, or refinancing to obtain favorable tax treatment. As a result, the effect of certain transactions on these members of management may influence our decisions affecting these properties. •Impairment of Intangible Assets. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations, stockholders’ equity and our stock price. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates, or our stock price falling below our net book value per share for a sustained period could all result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations.•History of Loss. We have recognized losses for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. We cannot assure that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. •Joint venture investments. We may from time to time enter into joint venture transactions for portions of our existing or future real estate assets. This subjects us to certain risks, among them:oWe will not exercise sole decision making authority regarding the joint ventures business and assets. oWe may be required to accept liability for obligations of the joint venture (such as recourse carve-outs on mortgage loans beyond our economic interest).oOur returns on joint venture assets may be adversely affected if the assets are not held for the long term.Financing RisksOur portfolio is highly leveraged, which subjects us to financing risk that could cause us to become insolvent and lead to the loss of properties in the event of a foreclosure. The following are some of the important financing risks associated with our business. In general, financing risk relates to interruptions in debt markets, asset values and cash flows, which may adversely impact our ability to meet our financial obligations when they come due and could cause us to become insolvent. Our organizational documents contain no limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness which we may incur. Our board of directors, without a vote of 7the stockholders, establishes our policies on borrowings and leverage, and they are subject to change from time to time. Outlined below are various additional risks associated with our financing strategies which could adversely impact our cash flows, asset values and your investment in our shares. •Availability of Financing and Market Conditions. Fluctuations in the market for real estate loans may affect the availability and cost of loans needed to finance and refinance our properties. Credit availability continues to be restricted for certain classes of real estate assets and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain the required financing to acquire, develop, hold, refinance and sell our properties, which could adversely impact our operations and the value of our shares. •Variable Interest Rates and Interest-Only Loans. Many of the available loans, particularly bank loans, have interest rates which are determined by a margin over a floating rate index (such as LIBOR or the Prime Rate). In the event that the floating rate index on any loan increases significantly, we may not have sufficient operating cash flows to pay the required loan payments. In such event, our ownership of the underlying asset may be threatened if we cannot sell the asset or modify the loan terms with the lender.•Loan Terms. The terms of our existing credit facilities and loan agreements contain debt covenants requiring us to comply with a number of financial and other covenants. These covenants may limit our operational flexibility, and our non-compliance could result in defaults under the applicable covenants even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. When obtaining new loans or refinancing our existing loans, the financial terms of the loans we may be able to obtain or assume continue to fluctuate with market conditions. Financing terms associated with available loans cannot be predicted with any degree of certainty, and could have a negative impact on our investment outcomes and your investment in our shares.•Leverage. Although there can be no assurance, we anticipate using loans to support the acquisition and development of our properties as a means of reducing our equity investment requirement. Due to limitations in the availability of loans originated through the commercial mortgage-backed securities market, we anticipate using seller carry-back financing, private debt capital, and, when available, conventional bank loans. The use of leverage to support our acquisition and development activities exposes us to losses resulting from a decline in the market value for our properties. Similarly, a significant increase in operating expenses which cannot be offset by increases in rental revenues exposes us to losses if our properties do not generate enough cash to repay the principal and interest on our debts. A decline in values or cash flows could potentially result in lender foreclosure and a loss of our investment.•Balloon Payments. Our loans have principal amortization periods that exceed the termination date and require us to make large balloon payments at maturity. If we are unable to make a balloon payment, extend the maturity date, or refinance the loan obligation, we could face foreclosure proceedings and the loss of our investment.•Recourse Liability and Cross-Collateralization. Some of our loans are full recourse loans or may contain cross-collateralization clauses. In situations where we have invested using special purpose entities we have been required to provide loan guarantees or cross-collateralize one property with another. The failure of one of our properties to meet its loan obligations could adversely impact our operations and our other assets.•Restriction on Transfer. Most of our loans have restrictions on our ability to transfer the loan at the time of sale. Some of our loans also include prepayment penalties or yield maintenance agreements that require loan pay-off premiums, which restrict our ability to dispose of our properties or equity interests and could result in diminished values or sales proceeds for our investments.•Potential Adverse Effect of Indebtedness on Future Operations. The degree to which we are leveraged could have an adverse impact on us as the result of: ◦increased vulnerability to adverse general economic and market conditions ◦impaired ability to expand and to respond to increased competition◦impaired ability to obtain additional financing for future working capital, capital expenditures; general corporate or other purposes8◦requiring that a significant portion of cash provided by operating activities be used for the payment of debt obligations, thereby reducing funds available for operations and future business opportunities.Tax RisksOur business is impacted by federal, state and local tax regulation. Interpretation and compliance with these complex and continually changing regulations is time-consuming, expensive and involves risks that affect our business and the value of our shares. The following are some of the important tax risks associated with our business. •General Tax Risks. The cost of compliance, as well as any potential penalties and fines for non-compliance, has increased substantially over the last several years. Examination of our tax returns by regulatory agencies such as the IRS can be time consuming and costly, regardless of the outcome. The Company’s tax and information returns may be audited at any time, and an audit may result in the challenge and disallowance of some of the deductions described in the returns. No assurance or warranty of any kind can be made with respect to the deductibility of any such items in the event of either an audit or any litigation resulting from an audit.•Tax Classification of Partnerships and Limited Liability Companies. Many of our investments, whether wholly-owned or held in VIEs, are held through interests in limited partnerships and limited liability companies that have elected to be taxed as partnerships for federal income tax purposes. If these entities were to be treated for tax purposes as a corporation, the tax benefits associated with an investment in these partnerships and limited liability companies may not be available to us. As a corporation, our subsidiary entities could be required to pay income tax on some or all of their earnings in the same manner and at the same rate as a corporation. •Possible Disallowance of Various Deductions. The availability, timing and amount of our deductions or allocation of our income and expense items depends not only on the written text of laws and regulations, but also upon various determinations that are subject to potential controversy on factual or other grounds. Additional issues could arise regarding the allocation of acquisition costs to buildings, land, leaseholds and personal property. If a regulatory agency were successful, in whole or in part, in challenging our position on these issues, we could be required to file amended tax returns and incur penalties, fines and interest, which could adversely impact earnings and the value of our shares.•Allocation of Net Income and Net Loss. In order for the allocations of income, gains, deductions, losses and credits under the various partnership and limited liability membership agreements to be recognized for tax purposes, such allocations must possess substantial economic effect. No assurance can be given that the IRS, or any other regulatory agency, will not claim that such allocations lack substantial economic effect. If any such challenge to the allocation of losses were upheld, the determination of our taxable income for one or more tax years could be adversely affected.•Alternative Minimum Tax. The alternative minimum tax applies to designated items of tax preference. Although we may have losses for any one year, we may still be required to pay the alternative minimum tax due to alternative minimum tax adjustments, which could adversely impact our cash flows during the periods in which such taxes are paid.