ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The Company’s level of debt increases its risk of default and may have a negative impact on the results of operations. This could adversely affect the Company’s ability to make distributions and the market price of its Common Stock. The Company’s level of debt increases the Company’s risk of default on its obligations and adversely affects the Company’s funds from operations and its ability to make distributions to its stockholders. Further, due to the high level of debt, the Company may be restricted in its ability to refinance some or all of its indebtedness and the terms of any new or refinanced debt may not be as favorable as those of some of its existing indebtedness. The Company has a higher ratio of indebtedness to assets than many other real estate companies. This could adversely affect the market price for the Company’s Common Stock. The Company may need to refinance mortgage loans and sell properties to meet its obligations. The Company expects to require substantial cash to meet its operating requirements, including budgeted capital expenditures if its leasing projections are met. To meet these obligations, the Company may be required to refinance mortgage indebtedness and/or sell certain assets to provide cash. The Company cannot provide assurance that it will be successful in refinancing the mortgage indebtedness nor that it will have sufficient cash to meet its obligations. In addition, to fulfill the Company’s growth strategy, the Company may be required to raise additional cash through debt or equity financing. There are risks inherent in the Company’s acquisition and development strategy. The Company may not make profitable investments. The Company plans to pursue its growth strategy through the acquisition and development of additional properties. The Company does not know that this strategy will succeed. The Company may have difficulty finding new properties, negotiating with new or existing tenants or securing acceptable financing. In addition, investing in additional properties is subject to many risks. Also, the Company’s acquisition strategy of investing in under-valued assets subjects the Company to increased risks. The Company may not succeed in turning around these properties. The Company may not make a profit on these investments. The Company has a history of losses. The Company cannot assure the stockholders that it will become profitable in the future. The Company has incurred losses from continuing operations in each of the three years ended December 31, 2009. The Company cannot assure the stockholders that it will not continue to have losses after depreciation and amortization under generally accepted accounting principles. Real property investments entail risk. The Company’s properties may not be profitable, may not result in distributions and/or may depreciate. Properties acquired by the Company: (i) may not operate at a profit; (ii) may not perform to the Company’s expectations; (iii) may not appreciate in value; (iv) may depreciate in value; (v) may not ever be sold at a profit; and/or (vi) may not result in dividends. The marketability and value of any properties will depend upon many factors beyond the Company’s control, including but not limited to general economic conditions, zoning laws, tax laws and the availability of financing. The Company may not be able to enter into favorable leases upon the expiration of current leases and on current vacant space. Over the next three years, leases which constitute approximately 58% of the square footage of the Company’s total rentable square footage of properties owned will expire. In addition, approximately 18% of the Company’s total rentable square footage was vacant as of December 31, 2009. The Company may be unable to enter into leases for all or a portion of this space. If the Company enters into leases, the Company may not do so at comparable lease rates, without incurring additional expenses. If the Company is unsuccessful in leasing the space, or cannot re-lease the space at current rental rates or higher rental rates, it could adversely affect its ability to make distributions and the market price of its Common Stock. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS The Company may invest in joint ventures, which adds another layer of risk to its business. The Company may acquire properties through joint ventures, which could subject the Company to certain risks that may not otherwise be present if investments were made directly by the Company. These risks include: (i) the potential that the Company’s joint venture partner may not perform; (ii) the joint venture partner may have economic or business interests or goals which are inconsistent with or adverse to those of the Company; (iii) the joint venture partner may take actions contrary to the requests or instructions of the Company or contrary to the Company’s objectives or policies; and (iv) the joint venturers may not be able to agree on matters relating to the property they jointly own. The Company also may participate with other investors in investments as tenants-in-common or in some other joint ownership or venture. The risks of such joint ownership may be similar to those mentioned above for joint ventures and, in the case of a tenancy-in-common, each co-tenant normally has the right, if an unresolvable dispute arises, to seek partition of the property, which partition might decrease the value of each portion of the divided property. The Company could incur unforeseen environmental liabilities. Various federal, state and local laws and regulations subject property owners and operators to liability for reporting, investigating, remediating, and monitoring regulated hazardous substances released on or from a property. These laws and regulations often impose strict liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or actually caused, the release. The presence of, or the failure to properly report, investigate, remediate, or monitor hazardous substances could adversely affect the financial condition of the Company or the ability of the Company to operate the properties. In addition, these factors could hinder the Company’s ability to borrow against the properties. The presence of hazardous substances on a property also could result in personal injury or similar claims by private plaintiffs. In addition, there are federal, state and local laws and regulations which impose requirements on the storage, use, management and disposal of regulated hazardous materials or substances. The failure to comply with those requirements could result in the imposition of liability, including penalties or fines, on the owner or operator of the properties. Future laws or regulations could also impose unanticipated material environmental liabilities on the Company in connection with any of the properties. The costs of complying with these environmental laws and regulations for the Company’s properties could adversely affect the Company’s operating costs and, if contamination is present, the value of those properties. The Company faces intense competition in all of its markets. Numerous properties compete with the Company’s properties in attracting tenants to lease space. Additional properties may be built in the markets in which the Company’s properties are located. The number and quality of competitive properties in a particular area will have a material effect on the Company’s ability to lease space at existing properties or at newly acquired properties and on the rents charged. Some of these competing properties may be newer or better located than the Company’s properties. There are a significant number of buyers of properties, including institutional investors and publicly traded REITs. Many of these competitors have significantly greater financial resources and experience than the Company. This has resulted in increased competition in acquiring attractive properties. This competition can adversely affect the Company’s ability to acquire properties and make distributions. The global financial crisis and downturn in the United States economy may have an impact on the Company’s business and financial condition. The current credit crisis, related turmoil in the global financial system and downturn in the United States economy may have an impact on the Company’s business, including its liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The continuation of the credit crisis and/or the economic downturn could adversely affect the Company’s business in a number of ways, including effects on its ability to obtain new mortgages, to refinance current debt and to sell properties. Further, effect of the crisis and/or the economic downturn on the Company’s tenants may lead to defaults, bankruptcies and/or vacancies at the Company’s properties. Any of these effects could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS Delisting could have an adverse effect on the value of the Company’s stock. As reported in its Form 8-K filed September 22, 2008, the Company was notified by the NYSE Amex (“the Exchange”) that it has fallen below the continued listing criteria due to not maintaining the level of stockholders’ equity required by Sections 1003(a)(ii) and (iii) of the Exchange Company Guide. The Company was afforded the opportunity to submit a plan of compliance to the Exchange that demonstrated the Company’s ability to regain compliance by February 17, 2010. The Company submitted its plan on October 16, 2008. As reported in Form 8-K filed December 8, 2008, the Company was notified by the Exchange that its plan had been accepted by the Exchange Listing Qualifications Department. The Company, however was notified by the Exchange’s staff on March 8, 2010 that the Exchange had determined that the Company had not regained compliance and that the Exchange intended to initiate delisting proceedings. As reported in its Form 8-K filed March 12, 2010, the Company has appealed the Exchange’s determination. The appeal has been set for April 27, 2010. A delisting could have an adverse effect on the marketability of the Company’s stock and on its value. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS 