D. Risk Factors — Environmental Risks of Our Industrial Activities — Risks from the handling of hazardous materials could adversely affect our results of operations”. Appropriate Industrial Hygiene practices and programs are defined and implemented in each site. These practices consist essentially of containment measures for collective and individual protection against exposure in all workplaces where chemical substances or biological agents are handled. All personnel are monitored with an appropriate initial and routine medical program, focused on the potential occupational health risks linked to their duties. In addition, a committee has been set up to prepare and support the implementation of the new European Union REACH regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. To fully comply with the new European regulation on the labeling of chemicals (Classification Labeling Packaging), the Group has registered the relevant hazardous chemical substances with the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). Safety Sanofi-aventis has rigorous policies to identify and evaluate safety risks and to develop preventive safety measures, and methods for checking their efficacy. Additionally, sanofi-aventis invests in training that is designed to instill in all employees a sense of concern for safety, regardless of their duties. These policies are implemented on a worldwide scale to ensure the safety of all employees and to protect their health. Each project, whether in research, development or manufacturing, is subject to evaluation procedures, incorporating the chemical substance and process data communicated by the COVALIS and TRIBIO committees described above. The preventive measures are designed primarily to reduce the number and seriousness of work accidents and to minimize exposures involving permanent and temporary sanofi-aventis employees as well as our sub-contractors. The French chemical manufacturing sites in Aramon, Neuville-sur-Saône, Sisteron, Vertolaye and Vitry, as well as the plants located in the Hoechst Industry Park in Frankfurt, Germany, the Zentiva site in Hlohovec, Slovakia, and the chemical production site in Budapest, Hungary, are listed Seveso II (from the name of the European directive that deals with potentially dangerous sites through a list of activities and substances associated with classification thresholds). In accordance with French law on technological risk prevention, the French sites are also subject to heightened security inspections in light of the toxic or flammable materials stored on the sites and used in the operating processes. Risk assessments of processes and their installations are drawn up according to standards and internal guidelines incorporating the best state-of-the-art benchmarks for the industry. These assessments are used to fulfill regulatory requirements and are regularly updated. Particular attention is paid to any risk-generating changes: process or installation changes, as well as changes in production scale and transfers between industrial or research units. Our laboratories that specialize in process safety testing, which are fully integrated into our chemical development activities, apply methods to obtain the physico-chemical parameters of manufactured chemical substances (intermediate chemical compounds and active ingredients) and apply models to measure the effect of potentially leachable substances in the event of a major accident. In these laboratories the parameters for qualifying hazardous reactions are also determined to define scale-up process conditions while transferring from development stage to industrial scale. All these data ensure the relevance of the risk assessments. We believe that the safety management systems implemented at each site, the hazard studies carried out and the risk management methods implemented, as well as our third-party property insurance policies covering any third-party physical damage, are consistent with legal requirements and the best practices in the industry. 55 Table of Contents Environment The main objectives of our environmental policy are to implement clean manufacturing techniques, minimize the use of natural resources and reduce the environmental impact of our activities. In order to optimize and improve our environmental performance, we have a strategy of continuous improvement practiced at all our sites through the annual implementation of HSE progress plans. In addition, 49 sites are currently ISO 14001 certified. We believe that this strategy clearly expresses the commitment of both management and individuals to health, safety and the environment. In 2010, seven of our European sites were included in the scope of the European CO2 Emissions Credit Trading Scheme aimed at helping to reach the targets set by the Kyoto protocol. Our recent efforts in terms of environmental protection have mainly targeted reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions control, improvements in the performance of water treatment installations, reduction of volatile organic compound emissions, raw material savings and recycling, and reductions in waste materials or increases in the percentage being recycled. In 2010, we reduced carbon dioxide emissions caused by our sales representation car fleet by 13% versus 2009, due to the policy of using energy efficient cars as well as a reduction in the number of cars. Since 2005, in terms of our activity level per unit produced, our direct and indirect carbon dioxide emissions have decreased by 8% and 17% respectively(1). An internal committee of experts called ECOVAL assesses the environmental impact of the pharmaceutical agents found in products marketed by sanofi-aventis. It has developed an environmental risk assessment methodology and runs programs to collect the necessary data for such assessments. Additional ecotoxicity assessments are being performed on certain substances which predate current regulations, in order to obtain information that was not gathered when they were launched (as regulatory requirements were different at that time) and evaluate environmental risks resulting from their use by patients. Markets A breakdown of revenues by business segment and by geographic region for 2008, 2009 and 2010 can be found at Note D.35. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. The following market shares and ranking information is based on sales data from IMS Health MIDAS, retail and hospital for full year 2010, in constant euros (unless otherwise indicated). For more information on market shares and ranking, see “Presentation of Financial and Other Information” at the beginning of this document. Marketing and Distribution Sanofi-aventis has a commercial presence in approximately 100 countries, and our products are available in more than 170. Our main markets in terms of net sales are, respectively: Western Europe represents 29.6% of our net sales; we are the leading pharmaceutical company in France where our market share is 10.1% (11.4% in 2009), and we rank third in Germany with a 5.8% market share (5.6% in 2009). In 2010, sales in Western Europe were down 8.8% due to the impact of generic competition for Plavix® and of Taxotere® and of price pressure applied by the healthcare authorities. The United States represents 29.5% of our net sales ; we rank twelfth with a market share of 3.1% (3.4% in 2009). Sales in the U.S. were down 8.4% at constant exchange rates in 2010 reflecting the impact of generics of Lovenox® and Ambien® CR, the workdown of Eloxatine® generics inventory during the second half of 2010, and the impact of healthcare reform. Chattem’s sales are included from February 2010. Emerging Markets (see definition in “B. Business Overview — Strategy”, above) represent 29.9% of our net sales, for the first time the largest contribution to net sales of any region. We are the leading healthcare company in emerging markets. In 2010, sales in emerging markets grew by 16.3% at constant exchange rates. This performance was due to robust organic growth (13.2% on a constant structure basis and at constant exchange (1) The CO2 emissions variations per produced unit are calculated for each business and added proportionally to their respective contribution to the total of direct and indirect CO2 emissions. Each business defines a specific indicator of its activity (e.g., hours worked for vaccines, number of boxes produced for pharmaceuticals, etc.). 56 Table of Contents rates) and the impact of targeted acquisitions (mainly Zentiva in Eastern Europe and Medley in Brazil). In 2010, Brazil, Russia and China generated substantial growth of 51.4%, 19.9% and 23.6%, respectively. In Latin America, mostly in Brazil and Mexico, growth was driven by flu vaccine sales, which virtually trebled (+189%). Japan represents 7.3% of our net sales; our market share is 3.1% (3.0% in 2009). In 2010, sales grew by 9.1% at constant exchange rate and growth was mostly generated by the success of Plavix® (+37.1%) and by a good performance from the Vaccines activity. A breakdown of our sales by geographic market is presented in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2009.” Although specific distribution patterns vary by country, we sell prescription drugs primarily to wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail drug outlets, hospitals, clinics, managed care organizations and government institutions. With the exception of Consumer Health Care products, these drugs are ordinarily dispensed to patients by pharmacies upon presentation of a doctor’s prescription. We use a selection of channels to disseminate information about and promote our products among healthcare professionals and patients, ensuring that the channels not only cover our latest therapeutic advances but also our mature products, as they provide the foundation for satisfying major therapeutic needs. We regularly advertise in medical journals and exhibit at major medical congresses. In some countries, products are also marketed directly to patients by way of television, radio, newspapers and magazines, and we sometimes use new media channels (such as the internet) to market our products. National education and prevention campaigns can be used to improve patients’ knowledge of conditions. Our medical representatives, who work closely with healthcare professionals, use their expertise to promote and provide information on our drugs. They represent our values on a day-to-day basis and are required to adhere to a code of ethics. As of December 31, 2010, we had a global sales force of 32,686 representatives: 10,287 in Europe, 5,531 in the United States, and 16,868 in the rest of the world. Although we market most of our products through our own sales forces, we have entered into and continue to form partnerships to co-promote/co-market certain products in specific geographic areas. Our major alliances are detailed at “— Pharmaceutical Products — Main pharmaceutical products” above. Our vaccines are sold and distributed through multiple channels, including physicians, pharmacies, hospitals and distributors in the private sector, and governmental entities and non-governmental organizations in the public and international donor markets, respectively. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is currently experiencing significant changes in its competitive environment. Innovative drugs, a broad product range, and a presence in all geographical markets are key factors in maintaining a strong competitive position. There are four types of competition in the prescription pharmaceutical market: • competition between pharmaceutical companies to research and develop new patented products or new therapeutic indications; • competition between different patented pharmaceutical products marketed for the same therapeutic indication; • competition between original and generic products or between original biological products and biosimilars, at the end of patent protection; and • competition between generic or biosimilar products. 57 Table of Contents We compete with other pharmaceutical companies in all major markets to develop innovative new products. We may develop new technologies and new patented products wholly in-house, but we also enter into collaborative R&D agreements in order to access new technologies. See Note D.21. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. Our prescription drugs compete in all major markets against patented drugs from major pharmaceutical companies like Abbott in benign prostatic hyperplasia; AstraZeneca in cardiovascular disease, hypertension and oncology; Bayer-Schering in thrombosis prevention; Boehringer-Ingelheim in atherothrombosis and benign prostatic hyperplasia; Bristol-Myers Squibb in oncology; Lilly in osteoporosis, diabetes and oncology; GlaxoSmithKline in oncology, allergies, diabetes and thrombosis; Merck in hypertension, osteoporosis, diabetes and benign prostatic hyperplasia; Novartis in hypertension and oncology; Novo Nordisk in diabetes; Pfizer in oncology, thrombosis and allergies; and Roche in oncology and osteoporosis. In our Vaccines business, we compete primarily with multinational players backed by large healthcare groups, including Merck (outside Europe), GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer (Wyeth) and Novartis. In selected market segments, sanofi pasteur competes with mid-size international players (such as CSL of Australia in the influenza market for the Southern Hemisphere). Sanofi Pasteur also competes with an increasing number of manufacturers, entrenched in densely populated and economically emerging regions, which are leveraging their cost/volume advantage and raising their level of technical capability and quality standards to compete on more sophisticated antigens in their domestic markets and also in international donor markets. Multinational players are increasingly seeking alliances with manufacturers from emerging economies to secure positions in their markets of origin. We also face competition from generic drugs that enter the market when our patent protection or regulatory exclusivity expires, or when we lose a patent infringement lawsuit (see “— Patents, Intellectual Property and Other Rights” above). Similarly, when a competing patented drug from another pharmaceutical company faces generic competition, these generic products can also affect the competitive environment of our own patented product. Competition from producers of generics has increased sharply in response to healthcare cost containment measures and to the increased number of products for which patents have expired. Generics manufacturers who have received all necessary regulatory approvals for a product may decide to launch a generic version before the patent expiry date. Such launch may occur notwithstanding the fact that the owner of the original product may already have commenced patent infringement litigation against the generics manufacturer. Such launches are said to be “at risk” for the promoter of the generic product because it may be required to pay damages to the owner of the original product in the context of patent infringement litigation; however, these launches may also significantly impair the profitability of the pharmaceutical company whose product is challenged. Another competitive issue drug manufacturers are facing is parallel trade, also known as reimportation. This takes place when drugs sold abroad under the same brand name as in a domestic market are imported into that domestic market by parallel traders, who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the Internet. This situation is of particular relevance to the European Union, where these practices have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. Parallel traders take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. Finally, pharmaceutical companies face illegal competition from counterfeit drugs. The WHO estimates that counterfeit products account for 10% of the market worldwide, rising to as much as 30% in some countries. However, in markets where powerful regulatory controls are in place, counterfeit drugs are estimated to represent less than 1% of market value. The WHO also estimates that 50% of sales over the Internet are of counterfeit drugs: their development has intensified in 2010. 58 Table of Contents A medical product is counterfeit when there is a false representation in relation to its identity (e.g., name, composition, strength, etc.) or source (e.g., manufacturer, country of manufacturing/origin, marketing authorization holder, etc.) or its background (e.g., filings and documentation related to its distribution channels). Sanofi-aventis is committed to being part of any efforts made to overcome drug counterfeiting and has implemented the following actions: • Intensification of close collaboration with international organizations and with customs and police to reinforce regulatory frameworks and to investigate suspected counterfeiters; and • Development of technologies to make drugs more difficult to copy through packaging protection programs and to ensure no direct traceability. Regulation The pharmaceutical and health-related biotechnology sectors are highly regulated. National and supranational health authorities administer a vast array of legal and regulatory requirements that dictate pre-approval testing and quality standards to maximize the safety and efficacy of a new medical product. These authorities also regulate product labeling, manufacturing, importation/exportation and marketing as well as mandatory sponsor post-approval commitments. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that a license to market/ product approval will be granted. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements during the course of the product development and application review. It may refuse to grant approval and require additional data before granting approval, even though the same product has already been approved in other countries. Regulatory authorities also have the authority to request product recalls, product withdrawals and penalties for violations of regulations based on data that are made available to them. The International Conference on Harmonization (ICH) consists of the regulatory agencies of the three founder members (European Union, Japan, United States), plus Health Canada and Swissmedic as observers. Product approval can vary from six months to several years from the date of application depending upon the country. Factors such as the quality of data submitted, the degree of control exercised by the regulatory authority, the review procedures, the nature of the product and the condition to be treated, play a major role in the length of time a product is under review. In recent years, efforts have been made by the ICH participants to harmonize product development and regulatory submission requirements. An example of these efforts is the Common Technical Document (CTD), which can be used in different ICH regions for a product application review, with only local or regional adaptation. Electronic CTD is becoming the standard for worldwide product submission. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have committed to publishing protocols and results of clinical studies performed with their products in publicly accessible registries (e.g., Clinical Trials Registry, Clinical Trial Results Registry). In addition, the various ICH and non-ICH countries often impose mandatory disclosure of clinical trials information. The requirement of many countries, including Japan and several member states of the European Union, to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement rates for pharmaceutical products with government regulators can substantially extend the time for market entry beyond the initial marketing approval. While marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical products in the European Union have been substantially centralized with the European Medicines Agency (EMA), pricing and reimbursement remain a matter of national competence. In the European Union, there are three main procedures by which to apply for marketing authorization: • The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain types of medicinal products. When an application is submitted to the EMA, the scientific evaluation of the application is carried out by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) and a scientific opinion is prepared. This opinion is sent to the European Commission which adopts the final decision and grants a Community marketing authorization. Such a marketing authorization is valid throughout the Community and the drug may be marketed within all European Union member states. 59 Table of Contents • If a company is seeking a national marketing authorization in more than one Member State, the mutual recognition or decentralized procedure is available to facilitate the granting of harmonized national authorizations across Member States. Both the decentralized and the mutual recognition procedures are based on the recognition by national competent authorities of a first assessment performed by the authorities of one member state. • National authorizations are still possible, but are only for products intended for commercialization in a single EU member state or for line extensions to existing national product licenses. Post-authorization safety monitoring of pharmaceutical products is carefully regulated in Europe (Council Regulation (EEC) No 2309/93 and Council Directive -2001/83/EC describe the respective obligations of the marketing authorization holder and of the competent authorities to set up a system for pharmacovigilance in order to collect, collate and evaluate information about suspected adverse reactions), and pharmacovigilance activities also pertain to nationally approved products: pharmacovigilance obligations apply to all authorized medicinal products including those authorized before 1 January 1995. It is possible for health authorities to withdraw products from the market for safety reasons. The responsibilities for pharmacovigilance rest with the competent authorities of all the Member States in which the authorisations are held. In accordance with the applicable legislation, each Member State has established a pharmacovigilance system for the collection and evaluation of information relevant to the benefit to risk balance of medicinal products. The competent authority continually monitors the safety profile of the products available on its territory and takes appropriate action where necessary and monitors the compliance of marketing authorisation holders with their obligations with respect to pharmacovigilance. All relevant information should be shared between the competent authorities and the marketing authorization holder, in order to allow all parties involved in pharmacovigilance activities to assume their obligations and responsibilities. The principal mandate of the CHMP’s Pharmacovigilance Working Party is to provide a forum for dialogue between Member States on pharmacovigilance and to review safety issues at the request of the competent authorities, for centrally authorized products and products undergoing a referral. Following a routine inspection of the sanofi-aventis U.S. site in Bridgewater during April and May 2010, the FDA issued a warning letter citing inadequate procedures for the surveillance, receipt, evaluation and reporting of adverse events in a timely manner, and failure to include all required postmarketing studies in NDA Annual Reports to the agency. The warning letter is specific to reporting processes and timeframes, not to safety concerns with any specific medication. Sanofi-aventis has already been working to address the observation and is fully committed to ensure compliance with all reporting requirements. In 2010 new legislation aimed at strengthening and rationalizing the Community Pharmacovigilance System was approved, which will be enforced in July 2012. Changes include a strengthened legal basis for regulators to require post-authorization safety and efficacy studies throughout the life cycle of the medicinal product. An additional scientific committee called the Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment Committee, with a key role in pharmacovigilance assessments (scope: all marketed drugs in the EU), is to be established at the level of the EMA. This committee, which includes a patient representative, can hold public hearings. Implementation of this pharmacovigilance legislation will be a particular priority in light of the Mediator affair that has caused uproar in France. Given AFSSAPS’ stature as a leading regulatory agency, as well as the way the European regulatory network is organized, (with national agencies that are closely entwined with the EMA through their experts’ membership of the EMA’s various scientific committees and groups), it is possible the affair will have EU repercussions. AFSSAPS’ failures were highlighted in the report by the French Health Ministry’s General Inspectorate of Social Affairs (IGAS). The French Health Minister has outlined a radical set of proposals for AFSSAPS. More input will come from the parliamentary inquiry with a report expected in June, and from a wide consultation on the reform of the regulatory and pharmacovigilance system to be held with results expected in May. Some of the measures identified by the French Health Minister are already being addressed in the EU legislation, while others will have broader implications: • Strengthening policy on conflicts of interest. This was actioned by the EMA in 2010. It can be expected that national agencies will have to examine their own procedures to see if they could be improved. 60 Table of Contents • Funding system of regulatory authorities. This is a key issue for national agencies but also for the EMA. • Ongoing safety monitoring and life-cycle management approach to monitoring the benefit:risk profile. In its Roadmap to 2015, the EMA calls for a continuous benefit:risk assessment throughout a product’s life-cycle. It can be expected that this objective will be implemented with a high priority at the EU level. The new Pharmacovigilance legislation gives the legal basis for enforcing this life cycle approach, with the power to request Post Authorization Safety and Efficacy Studies at any time. • New products submitted for approval to be at least equivalent to a product already on the market. This idea which appears to be more radical than the others, would in reality be more in line with the current tendency of companies to conduct more active control clinical studies. Other relevant aspects in the EU regulatory framework are the following: The “sunset clause” is a provision leading to the cessation of the validity of any marketing authorization which is not followed by marketing within 3 years or not remaining on the market for a consecutive 3 year period. Generic products are subject to a harmonized procedure in all countries of the European Union. A generic product should contain the same active medicinal substance as an originator product. Generic applications are abridged: generic manufacturers only need to submit quality data and demonstrate that the generic drug is “bioequivalent” to the originator product (i.e., works in the same way in the patient’s body), but with no need to submit safety or efficacy data since regulatory authorities can refer to the originator product’s dossier. Generic product applications can be filed and approved in the European Union only after the eight year data exclusivity period of the originator product has expired. Further, generic manufacturers can only market their generic products after a 10- or 11-year period from the date of approval of the originator product has elapsed. The EMA has introduced a series of initiatives aimed at improving the transparency of its activities, such as the publication of the European Public Assessment Report, which contains product approvals, withdrawals and rejections. In addition, there is an increased focus on comparative effectiveness. New initiatives have been proposed with regard to the disclosure of information on marketing authorization applications; meanwhile, the EMA has become more proactive on the disclosure of documents/information throughout the product lifecycle, with an emphasis on safety related data. In addition, patients and consumers are increasingly involved in the work of the EMA’s scientific committees. A regulation in pediatric development came into force in January 2007. It is aimed at promoting the development of drugs well adapted to children and ensuring safe use in the pediatric population. Incentives are proposed such as extension of SPC (Supplementary Protection Certificate) or data protection for PUMA (Pediatric Use Marketing Authorization). A new regulatory framework has been implemented covering Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (ATMPs). This new legislation provides specific requirements for the approval, supervision and pharmacovigilance of ATMPs. A new scientific committee — the Committee for Advanced Therapies (CAT) — has been established within the EMA to play a central role in the scientific assessment of ATMPs. An additional regulatory change relates to variations in marketing authorizations with a view to rendering the whole system for post-authorization activities simpler, clearer and more flexible without compromising public health. International collaboration between regulatory authorities continues to develop with implementation of confidentiality arrangements between ICH regulatory authorities, and with non-ICH regulatory authorities. Examples include work-sharing on Good Clinical Practices (GCP) inspections between the United States and the European Union, as well as creating permanent representatives from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Japanese Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (PMDA) now based in London, and a corresponding permanent representative from EMA at the FDA. In the United States, applications for drug and biological approval are submitted for review to the FDA, which has broad regulatory powers over all pharmaceutical products that are intended for U.S. sale and marketing. To commercialize a product, a New Drug Application (NDA) under the Food, Drug and Cosmetic 61 Table of Contents (FD&C) Act or Biological License Application (BLA) under the Public Health Service (PHS) Act is submitted to the FDA with data for filing and pre-market review. Specifically, the FDA must decide whether the product is safe and effective for its proposed use, if the benefits of the drug’s use outweigh its risks, whether the drug’s labeling is adequate, and if the manufacturing of the drug and the controls used for maintaining quality are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity. Based upon this review, the FDA can require post-approval commitments. Approval for a new indication of a previously approved product requires the submission of a supplemental NDA (sNDA) for a drug or supplemental BLA (sBLA) for a biological product. In the United States, generic drug manufacturers may file an Abbreviated NDA (ANDA) under 505(j) of the FD&C Act. These applications are “abbreviated” because they are generally not required to include data to establish safety and effectiveness, but need only demonstrate that their product is bioequivalent (i.e., performs in humans in the same manner as the originator’s product). Consequently, the length of time and cost required for development of generics can be considerably less than for the originator’s drug. The ANDA pathway in the United States can only be used for NDA approved drugs under the FD&C Act and not for BLA approved biological products under the PHS Act. In Japan, the regulatory authorities can require local development studies. They can also request bridging studies to verify that foreign clinical data are applicable to Japanese patients and require data to determine the appropriateness of the dosages for Japanese patients. These additional procedures have created a significant delay in the registration of some innovative products in Japan compared to the European Union and United States. Focus on Biologics Products can be referred to as “biologics” when they are derived from plant or animal tissues, including blood products or products manufactured within living cells (e.g., antibodies). Most biologics are complex molecules or mixtures of molecules which are difficult to characterize and require physico-chemical-biological testing, and an understanding of and control over the manufacturing process. The concept of “generics” is not scientifically appropriate for biologics due to their high level of complexity and therefore the concept of “biosimilar” products is more appropriate. A full comparison of the purity, safety and efficacy of the biosimilar product against the reference biological product should be undertaken, including assessment of physical/chemical, biological, non-clinical and clinical similarity. In the European Union, a regulatory framework for developing and evaluating biosimilar products has been in place since November 2005. The CHMP has issued several product/disease specific guidelines for biosimilar products. In March 2009, the CHMP adopted a guideline on preclinical and clinical development of biosimilars of low molecular weight heparins. For example, in Europe a potential product candidate claiming to be biologically similar to Lovenox® must show therapeutic equivalence in terms of efficacy and safety in at least one adequately powered, randomized, double-blind, parallel group clinical trial. With respect to vaccines, the CHMP has taken the position that currently it is unlikely that these products may be characterized at the molecular level, and that each vaccine product must be evaluated on a case by case basis. In Japan, guidelines defining the regulatory approval pathway for follow-on biologics were finalized in March 2009. These guidelines set out the requirements on preclinical and clinical data to be considered for the development of the new application category of biosimilars. For historical reasons in the U.S., a few complex protein-based drugs have been approved as NDAs under the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act). It is currently possible to submit an abbreviated application (ANDA) with respect to those particular products (e.g., Lovenox®, Lantus®). Since an ANDA is not required to contain clinical trial data other than from bioequivalence studies, the appropriateness of an ANDA with respect to these NDA approved biological products raises significant scientific issues for the FDA. The FD&C Act provides another abbreviated option for NDA approved biological products, called the 505(b)(2) pathway. This pre-market application may refer to the FDA finding that the reference product has been found to be safe and effective by the FDA based upon the innovator’s preclinical and clinical data. Lovenox® (enoxaparin) was approved as a drug by the FDA on March 29, 1993. Lovenox® was approved under Section 505(b)(1) of the FD&C Act and not as a biologic under Section 351 of the Public Health 62 Table of Contents Service Act, and therefore a biosimilar of the product was not possible. An abbreviated NDA (ANDA/generic) application was submitted to FDA August 2005 by Momenta/Sandoz under section 505(j) of the FFDCA. This application was approved July 2010; the generic product was approved as therapeutically equivalent to Lovenox®. Two other generic applications are believed to be pending with the FDA; one submitted by Teva and the other from Amphastar, both in 2003. Teva received a Minor Deficiency letter from the FDA on January 25, 2011 and has stated that it expects to answer those deficiencies in the near future. U.S. law now provides for a procedure for “biosimilar” versions of a reference product licensed as a biological under the PHS Act. Healthcare reform legislation entitled the “Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,” was signed into law by the President on March 30, 2010. Title VII, Subtitle A “Biologics Price Competition and Innovation”, allows for the creation of a regulatory approval pathway for biosimilars and a litigation procedure for patent infringement lawsuits brought against biosimilar applicants. Previously, a biological product was defined under the PHS Act, Section 351, as a virus, therapeutic serum, toxin, antitoxin, vaccine, blood, blood component or derivative, allergenic product or analogous product or arsphenamine or derivative of arsphenamine (or any other trivalent organic arsenic compound), applicable to the prevention, treatment, or cure of a disease or condition of human beings. In the U.S., Lovenox® is approved as a drug NDA (New Drug Application) under the FD&C Act. The new U.S. Biosimilars Law currently covers products regulated as Biologics under the Public Health Services (PHS) Act and therefore does not apply to Lovenox® or other products approved as drugs. Under the new U.S. law, the definition of “biological product” in section 351(i) is revised to include proteins, except any chemically synthesized polypeptide. In addition, this law describes how a “Biosimilar” product may be “highly similar” to the reference product “notwithstanding minor differences in clinically inactive components”, and for which there are “no clinically meaningful differences between the biological product and the reference product in terms of safety, purity and potency of the product”. This law also stated that approval of an application under section 351(k) may not be made effective until 12 years after the date on which the reference product was first licensed under section 351(a). The date on which the reference product was first licensed does not include the date of approval of: (1) a supplement for the biological product that is the reference product; (2) a subsequent application by the reference product sponsor or manufacturer for a change (other than a structural modification) that results in a new indication, route of administration, dosing schedule, dosage form, delivery system, delivery device, or strength for the previously licensed reference product; or (3) a subsequent application by the reference product sponsor or manufacturer for a modification to the structure of the reference product that does not result in a change in safety, purity, or potency. Other provisions of this new U.S. law state that ten years after enactment, certain “biological products” approved under section 505 of the FD&C Act will be deemed licensed under section 351 of the PHS Act. Prior to that time, the current legal interpretation is that they cannot be “reference products” for applications submitted under section 351(k) of the PHS Act. The new law also describes how a biological product that is shown to meet the new interchangeability standards, “may be substituted for the reference product without the intervention of the healthcare provider who prescribed the reference product”. Pricing & Reimbursement Rising overall healthcare costs are leading to efforts to curb drug expenditures in most markets in which sanofi-aventis operates. Increasingly these efforts result in pricing and market access controls for pharmaceuticals. The nature and impact of these controls vary from country to country, but some common themes are reference pricing, systematic price reductions, formularies, volume limitations, patient co-pay requirements, and generic substitution. In addition, governments and third-party payers are increasingly demanding comparative / relative effectiveness data to support their decision making process. They are also increasing their utilization of emerging healthcare information technologies such as electronic prescribing and health records to enforce transparency and tight compliance with these regulations and controls. As a result, the environment in which pharmaceutical companies must operate in order to make their products available to patients and providers who need them continues to grow more complex each year. 63 Table of Contents Significant changes in the Pharmaceutical/Healthcare environment emerged during 2010: • In the United States, 2010 was marked by the health insurance and market reforms that are expected to lead to a large number of uninsured being covered by 2014, either through state aid or mandatory coverage, with a system of fines for non-compliance. These reforms will also see the establishment of a health insurance exchange and the eventual closure of the “doughnut hole” in Medicare Part D. • In Europe, several countries (including, Germany, Greece, Spain, Portugal and Ireland) have introduced emergency cost containment measures and reforms, following economic crises, that led to a reduction in the price of marketed drugs and will significantly affect the size of the pharmaceutical market. In parallel, Germany introduced a law that would effectively put an end to the free-price-setting system through systematic health technology assessments and pricing negotiations. And in the United Kingdom, the new coalition government is looking to end the current Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (PPRS 2014) with a shift towards value-based pricing with less emphasis on the Incremental Cost Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) price-setting methods currently used by the National Institute for Clinical Excellence (NICE). • In Asia, several countries have sought to increase patient access to medicines: in the Philippines, this is being achieved through direct price cuts whereas in China and Thailand, it is being achieved through healthcare expansion towards universal coverage in association with price rationalization, starting with cuts in the prices of drugs on the Essential Drug List in China. • In Russia, healthcare expansion and price rationalization have also been the subject of legislative reforms. Regardless of the exact method, we believe that third-party payers will continue to act to curb the cost of pharmaceutical products. While the impact of these measures cannot be predicted with certainty, we are taking the necessary steps to defend the accessibility and price of our products in order to reflect the value of our innovative product offerings: • We actively engage with our key stakeholders on the value of our products to them. These stakeholders – including physicians, patient groups, pharmacists, government authorities and third-party payers – can have a significant impact on the market accessibility of our products. • We continue to add flexibility and adaptability to our operations so as to better prepare, diagnose, and address issues in individual markets. • Keeping in mind the importance of recognizing the value of our products and the high cost of research and development, we continue to analyze innovative pricing and access strategies that balance patient accessibility with appropriate rewards for innovation. Insurance and Risk Coverage We are protected by four key insurance programs, relying not only on the traditional corporate insurance and reinsurance market but also on a mutual insurance company established by various pharmaceutical groups and our captive insurance company, Carraig Insurance Ltd (Carraig). These four key programs cover Property & Business Interruption, General Liability, Stock and Transit, and Directors & Officers Liability. Our captive insurance company, Carraig, participates in our coverage for various lines of insurance including excess property, stock and transit and product liability. Carraig is run under the supervision of the Irish regulatory authorities, is wholly owned by sanofi-aventis, and has sufficient resources to meet the risks that it covers. It sets premiums for Group entities at market rates. Claims are assessed using the traditional models applied by insurance and reinsurance companies, and the company’s reserves are regularly checked and confirmed by independent actuaries. Our Property & Business Interruption program covers all Group entities worldwide, wherever it is possible to use a centralized program operated by our captive insurance company. This approach shares risk between 64 Table of Contents Group entities, enabling us to set deductibles and guarantees that are appropriate to the needs of local entities. A further benefit of this program is that traditional insurance cover is supplemented by specialist cover, thanks to the involvement of an international mutual insurance company established by a number of pharmaceutical groups. It also incorporates a prevention program, including a comprehensive site visit program covering our production, storage, research and distribution facilities and standardized repair and maintenance procedures across all sites. Specialist site visits are conducted every year to address specific needs, such as testing of sprinkler systems or emergency plans to deal with flooding risks. The Stock and Transit program protects goods of all kind owned by the Group that are in transit nationally or internationally, whatever the means of transport, and all our inventories wherever they are located. Sharing risk between Group entities means that we can set deductibles at appropriate levels, for instance differentiating between goods that require temperature controlled distribution and those that do not. We have developed a prevention program with our insurers, implementing best practices in this area at our distribution sites. This program, which is led by our captive insurance company, has substantial capacity, largely to deal with the growth in sea freight which can lead to a concentration of value in a single ship. Our General Liability & Product Liability program has been renewed for all our subsidiaries worldwide wherever it was possible to do so, despite the increasing reluctance in the insurance and reinsurance market to cover product liability risks for large pharmaceutical groups. For several years, insurers have been reducing product liability cover because of the difficulty of insuring some products that have been subject to numerous claims. These products are excluded from the cover provided by insurers, and hence from the cover obtained by us on the insurance market. This applies to a few of our products, principally those described in Note D.22.a) to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 in this annual report. Because of these market conditions we have increased, year by year, the extent to which we self-insure. The principal risk exposure for our pharmaceutical products is covered with low deductibles at the country level, the greatest level of risk being retained by our captive insurance company. The level of risk self-insured by the Group – including our captive reinsurance company – enables us to retain control over the management and prevention of risk. Our negotiations with third-party insurers and reinsurers are tailored to our specific risks. In particular, they allow for differential treatment of products in the development phase, for the discrepancies in risk exposure between European countries and the United States, and for specific issues arising in certain jurisdictions. Coverage is adjusted every year in order to take into account the relative weight of new product liability risks such as those emerging from healthcare products which are not subject to market approval. Our cover for risks that are not specific to the pharmaceutical industry (general liability) is designed to address the potential impacts of our operations. In respect of all lines of business of Carraig, outstanding claims are covered by provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred up to, but not paid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with all related claims handling expenses. Where there is sufficient history from the company or from the market of claims made and settlements, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is developed by management with the assistance of expert external actuaries to determine a reasonable estimate of the captive’s exposure to unasserted claims for those risks. The actuaries perform an actuarial valuation of the IBNR loss and ALAE (allocated loss adjustment expense) liabilities of the Company as of year end. Two ultimate loss projections (based upon reported losses and paid losses respectively) using the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method are computed each year. Provisions are recorded on that basis. The Directors & Officers Liability program protects all our legal entities and their directors and officers. Our captive insurance company is not involved in this program. These insurance programs are backed by best-in-class insurers and reinsurers and are designed in such a way that we can integrate most newly-acquired businesses on a continuous basis. Our cover has been designed to reflect our risk profile and the capacity available in the insurance market. By centralizing our major programs, not only do we reduce costs, but we also provide world-class coverage for the entire Group. 65 Table of Contents C. Organizational Structure Sanofi-aventis is the holding company of a consolidated group of subsidiaries. The table below sets forth our significant subsidiaries and affiliates as of December 31, 2010. For a complete list of our main consolidated subsidiaries, see Note F. to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report at Item 18. Significant Subsidiary or Affiliate Country ofOrganization Ownershipand VotingInterest Aventis Inc. United States 100% Aventis Pharma S.A. France 100% Hoechst GmbH Germany 100% Merial Ltd United Kingdom 100% Sanofi-aventis Amérique du Nord S.A.S. France 100% Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% Sanofi-aventis Europe S.A.S. France 100% Sanofi-aventis France France 100% Sanofi-aventis K.K. Japan 100% Sanofi-aventis Participations S.A.S. France 100% Sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC United States 100% Sanofi-aventis U.S. Inc. United States 100% Sanofi Pasteur Inc. United States 100% Sanofi Pasteur S.A. France 100% Sanofi Winthrop Industrie France 100% Sanofi-aventis and its subsidiaries form a group, organized around two activities: Pharmaceutical products and Human Vaccines. The Group is also active in Animal Health through Merial. The patents and trademarks of the pharmaceutical activity are primarily owned by the sanofi-aventis parent company, Aventis Pharma S.A. (France), Hoechst GmbH (Germany) and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH (Germany). Within the Group, the holding company oversees research and development activities by defining strategic priorities, coordinating work, and taking out industrial property rights under its own name and at its own expense. In order to fulfill this role, sanofi-aventis subcontracts research and development to its specialized French and foreign subsidiaries, in many cases licensing its patents, manufacturing know-how and trademarks. In these cases, the licensee subsidiaries manufacture and distribute the Group’s products, either directly or via local distribution entities. In certain countries, sanofi-aventis carries out part of its business operations through ventures with local partners. In addition, the Group has signed worldwide alliances by which two of its products (Plavix® and Aprovel®) are marketed through an alliance with BMS (see “— Pharmaceutical Products — Main Pharmaceutical Products” above). For most Group subsidiaries, sanofi-aventis provides financing and centrally manages their cash surpluses. Under the alliance arrangement with BMS, cash surpluses and cash needs arising within alliance entities give rise to symmetrical monthly transfers between the two groups. The holding company also operates a centralized foreign exchange risk management system, which enters into positions to manage the operational risks of its main subsidiaries. D. Property, Plant and Equipment Our headquarters are located in Paris, France. See “— Office Space” below. We operate our business through offices and research, production and logistics facilities in approximately 100 countries. All our support functions operate out of our office premises. A breakdown of these sites by use and by ownership/leasehold status is provided below. Breakdowns are based on surface area. All surface area figures are unaudited. 66 Table of Contents Breakdown of sites by use* Industrial 50% Research 15% Offices 14% Logistics 6% Vaccines 11% Others 4% * Excludes Vaccines entities. During 2010, our Vaccines business was still treated a separate unit, with its own offices and research, production and logistics facilities. In 2011, all premises occupied by sanofi pasteur will be incorporated into the Group’s global real estate portfolio, and allocated between the four uses shown in the table above. Breakdown of the Group’s sites between owned and leased Leased 35% Owned 65% We own most of our research and development and production facilities, either freehold or under finance leases with a purchase option exercisable at expiration. Research and Development Sites: Pharmaceuticals segment Research and Development activities are housed at 22 sites: • 8 operational sites in France, the largest in terms of built-on surface area in use being Vitry/Alfortville (approximately 105,000 m²), Montpellier (106,000 m2), Chilly/Longjumeau (114,000 m2) and Toulouse (60,500 m2); • 5 sites in other European countries (Germany, United Kingdom, Hungary, Spain and Italy), the largest being in Frankfurt, Germany (84,000 m2); • 6 sites in the United States, the largest being in Bridgewater, New Jersey (111,000 m2); • 1 site in Tokyo, Japan; • 2 sites in China: the principal facility in Shanghai, and a Clinical Research Unit in Beijing. Industrial Sites: Pharmaceuticals Segment Production of chemical and pharmaceutical products is the responsibility of our Industrial Affairs function, which is also in charge of most of our logistics facilities (distribution and storage centers). We have 75 industrial sites worldwide. The sites where the major sanofi-aventis drugs, active ingredients and medical devices are manufactured are: • France: Ambarès (Aprovel®, Depakine®, Multaq®), Le Trait (Lovenox®), Maisons-Alfort (Lovenox®), Neuville (dronedarone), Quetigny (Stilnox®, Plavix®), Sisteron (clopidogrel bisulfate, dronedarone, zolpidem tartrate), Tours (Stilnox®, Aprovel®, Xatral®), Vitry-sur Seine / Alfortville (docetaxel) ; • Germany: Frankfurt (insulins, ramipril, Lantus®, Tritace®, pens, Apidra®); • Italy: Scoppito (Tritace®, Amaryl®); • United Kingdom: Dagenham (Taxotere®), Fawdon (Plavix®, Aprovel®); Holmes Chapel (Nasacort®); • Hungary: Ujpest (irbesartan), Csanyikvölgy (Lovenox®); • Japan: Kawagoe (Plavix®); • United States: Kansas City (Allegra®), Chattem (consumer health products). 67 Table of Contents Sanofi Pasteur Sites The headquarters of our Vaccines division, sanofi pasteur, are located in Lyon, France. Sanofi Pasteur’s production and/or Research and Development sites are located in Swiftwater, Cambridge, Rockville Canton and Orlando (United States), Toronto (Canada), Marcy l’Etoile and Val de Reuil (France), Shenzhen (China), Pilar (Argentina), Chachoengsao (Thailand), and Hyderabad (India). In May 2009, sanofi aventis launched the construction of a new sanofi pasteur vaccine manufacturing center in Neuville-sur-Saône, France. The investment of 350 million euros, the largest ever made by sanofi-aventis, takes place on an exisiting sanofi-aventis site. The objective is to progressively transition the existing chemical activity to vaccine production. In 2010, sanofi pasteur acquired VaxDesign located in Orlando, Florida. VaxDesign’s Modular IMmune In-vitro Construct (MIMIC®) System is designed to capture genetic and environmental diversity and predict human immune responses. The MIMIC® platform is expected to accelerate vaccine development, reduced time to market and increased probability of success rates in pre-clinical and clinical stages. We own most of sanofi pasteur’s Research and Development and production sites, either freehold or under finance leases with a purchase option exercisable at expiration. Merial Sites Because we intend to contribute Merial to a joint venture in 2011 and consequently lose our exclusive control (see Note D.8.1 to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report) we have not included Merial sites in the discussion included at this “