Risk Factors 16 ITEM 1B: Unresolved Staff Comments 26 ITEM 2: Properties 26 ITEM 3: Legal Proceedings 26 ITEM 4: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders 26 PART II ITEM 5: Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 27 ITEM 6: Selected Consolidated Financial Data 29 ITEM 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 ITEM 7A: Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 47 ITEM 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 48 ITEM 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 48 ITEM 9A: Controls and Procedures 48 ITEM 9B: Other Information 49 PART III ITEM 10: Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance 50 ITEM 11: Executive Compensation 50 ITEM 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 50 ITEM 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 50 ITEM 14: Principal Accounting Fees and Services 50 PART IV ITEM 15: Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 51 INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS F-1 EX-21.1 SUBSIDIARIES OF EMAGEON INC. EX-23.1 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM EX-31.1 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CEO EX-31.2 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF CFO EX-32.1 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO i Table of Contents PART I SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Some of the statements made under the headings “Business” and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contain forward-looking statements which reflect our plans, beliefs and current views with respect to, among other things, future events and financial performance. We often identify these forward-looking statements by the use of forward-looking words such as “believe”, “expect”, “potential”, “continue”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “seek”, “predict”, “intend”, “plan”, “estimate”, “anticipate” or the negative version of those words or other comparable words. Any forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report are based upon our historical performance and on current plans, estimates and expectations. The inclusion of this forward-looking information should not be regarded as a representation by us or any other person that the future plans, estimates or expectations contemplated by us will be achieved. Such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition, there are or will be important factors that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those indicated in these statements. We believe these factors include, but are not limited to, those described in Item 1A of this Annual Report under the caption “Risk Factors”. These cautionary statements should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this Annual Report. Moreover, we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict these new risks or uncertainties, nor can it assess the impact, if any, that any such risks or uncertainties may have on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Accordingly, the risks and uncertainties to which we are subject can be expected to change over time, and we undertake no obligation to update publicly or review the risks or uncertainties described herein. We also undertake no obligation to update publicly or review any of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We provide enterprise-level information technology solutions for the clinical analysis and management of digital medical images within health care provider organizations. Our solutions consist of advanced visualization and image management software for multiple medical specialties, comprehensive reporting and knowledge tools for cardiology, support services and third-party components. Our web-enabled advanced visualization software provides physicians across the enterprise — in multiple medical specialties and at any network access point —with tools to manipulate and analyze images in two dimensions (“2D”) and three dimensions (“3D”). We enable physicians to better understand internal anatomic structure and pathology, which can improve clinical diagnoses, disease screening and therapy planning. We believe our solutions improve physician productivity and patient care; enhance customer revenue opportunities; automate complex, mission-critical medical imaging workflow; and maximize our customers’ return on investment in capital equipment and clinical information systems. We sell to multi-hospital networks, individual hospitals, physician clinics and diagnostic imaging centers. Health care providers produce growing volumes of medical imaging data that must be analyzed, managed and stored efficiently and cost-effectively. We focus on developing corporate-level relationships with large multi-facility organizations that provide substantial cross-selling opportunities and represent an important competitive advantage for us. Since our first commercial implementation in December 2000, we have implemented our solutions at facilities affiliated with some of the largest multi-facility health care providers in the United States. As of December 31, 2006, we had $158.4 million in contracted backlog, consisting primarily of fees for contracted future installations and for the support of existing installations, compared with a contracted backlog of $158.0 million at December 31, 2005. From our current contracted backlog, we expect to recognize revenue of approximately $68.2 million during fiscal year 2007, $31.8 million during fiscal year 2008, and substantially all of the remaining $58.4 million by 2011. 1 Table of Contents We were founded in December 1998 as an Alabama corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in January 2000. On February 14, 2005, we completed our initial public offering. We acquired Camtronics Medical Systems, Ltd., or Camtronics, on November 1, 2005. Our Opportunity Demand for advanced visualization and image management solutions is growing as the number and size of imaging exams increase due to accelerating physician adoption of advanced imaging, the growing health care needs of an aging U.S. population and the increasing sophistication of imaging devices such as computed tomography, or CT, magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, positron emission tomography, or PET, and cardiac catheterization. Existing film-based workflow or department-level picture archiving and communications systems, or PACS, are not sufficient to meet this growing demand. Health care providers need digital infrastructure, storage and image management capabilities to alleviate the operating strain created by medical image records. The American College of Radiology indicates that overall spending on imaging in the United States is growing 16% annually, from approximately $100 billion in 2003 to $250 billion in 2010. This increase makes imaging one of the fastest growing segments of overall healthcare spending, which, according to the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services, is growing at a compounded annual growth rate of 7.2%, and is projected to be 20% of United States gross domestic product by 2015. In addition, in 2005 Frost & Sullivan, a leading health care consulting and research firm, forecasted a 16.8% compound annual growth rate in enterprise cardiology PACS from 2004 through 2011. In 2006, Frost & Sullivan forecasted an 11.3% compound annual growth rate in enterprise radiology PACS from 2005 to 2012. We believe the rapid expansion in the number and complexity of medical images and the need to automate complex, manual workflow processes are driving health care providers to invest in systems that maximize their return on capital investments in expensive imaging devices and clinical information technology. We facilitate the convergence of imaging technology and clinical automation at the enterprise level by enhancing analysis, integration and automation of medical imaging data. Effective image management can shorten report turnaround times, lower the potential for manual error in data entry and filing, increase staff efficiency, eliminate costs associated with traditional radiological workflow and improve overall diagnostic and clinical quality. We believe the following factors have collectively increased the demand for our solutions: Increasing Number, Size and Complexity of Imaging Exams. The number of imaging exams performed each year is increasing as a result of a number of factors, including increased physician use of advanced imaging as a non-invasive diagnostic and clinical tool, lowered costs of imaging devices and increased health care needs of an aging U.S. population. At the same time, technological advancements are increasing the size and complexity of individual imaging exams. For example, new CT scanners produce 20 times as much data as prior models, with exams consisting of thousands of individual images yielding 500 to 1,000 megabytes of data per exam, versus only 25 to 50 megabytes just three years ago. One modality manufacturer has announced that they plan to have a 256-slice CT scanner on the market by 2008 which will produce images that are at least ten times the size of the images produced by today’s most advanced scanners. The increasing prevalence of fusion techniques used to combine images from multiple imaging devices increases the complexity of many exams. The rapid growth in the data size of medical images means that medical images also consume a greater share of hospital resources. Need for Advanced Visualization Tools. The increase in image data is significantly impacting visualization workflow. According to Rick Morin, Ph.D., Professor of Radiology, Mayo Clinic, Jacksonville, Florida, and Eliot Siegal, M.D., Professor of Radiology, University of Maryland, radiologists in 2006 could review approximately 80,000 CT images per day, up from 16,000 in 2002 and 1,500 in 1994. Because the output of a cross-sectional imaging device, such as a CT scanner, may consist of thousands of “sliced” 2D images, physicians need sophisticated software tools to model those images in 3D and allow the viewing of a “virtual” patient at all angles. Treating physicians can benefit from computer-created 3D images and eliminate the need to mentally reconstruct 2D images into a single useful 3D image. This 3D reconstruction improves diagnostic capabilities, treatment and non-invasive surgical planning. Sophisticated new tools, such as 3D volumetric imaging and volume rendering, maximum intensity projection, or MIP, multi-planar reformat, or MPR, and 2 Table of Contents surface shading, are increasingly essential to present medical images in a manner that is valuable to the physician for diagnosis and treatment planning. Moreover, some surgical specialists will not perform a complex surgery without first performing pre-operative 3D planning. Hospitals and hospital networks that provide these advanced visualization tools to physicians have the advantage of attracting patient referrals from those physicians that heavily utilize visualization technology in their practices. Need for Complete Electronic Health Records. The need to improve clinical care and eliminate inefficiencies in existing paper-based methods, including film-based image management, continues to drive investment in clinical information technology. In 2004, the federal government began several initiatives to accelerate information technology adoption rates within the health care system, including the Presidential appointment of a national health care information technology office and a recommitment to the President’s Information Technology Advisory Committee. Health care providers are implementing clinical information systems to automate clinical documentation and integrate patient information into electronic health records. However, these clinical information systems typically lack the sophistication or capability to incorporate digital medical images from radiology modalities, echocardiology, or the cardiac catheterization lab into patient health records. Incomplete electronic health records can result in delayed diagnosis, billing errors and inefficient workflow. According to the Global Technology Centre in its 2005 publication Reactive to Adaptive: Transforming Hospitals With Digital Technology, one-fifth of medical errors are due to inadequate availability of patient information. A complete electronic health record, which includes all medical images and complete data from cardiac catheterization and echocardiology procedures, enhances the benefits of investment in clinical information technology. Shortcomings of Film-Based Image Management. Many health care providers still use film to capture medical images from devices such as X-ray machines, which may produce three to four images per typical exam, and CT scanners, which can produce 8,000 images per exam. A film-based system has numerous inefficiencies, including complex exam scheduling, redundant patient data entry, the possibility of misplaced or misfiled notations and case histories, physical films and files that must be copied often or physically moved among the technologist, the specialist physician and the treating physician, degradation in quality, and substantial storage space requirements. Each of these inefficiencies has the potential to increase the total cost per exam. Limitations of Current Methodologies for Managing Digital Medical Images. Current digital medical image management systems, which correct some of the inefficiencies of film-based imaging, have traditionally consisted of specialized services and technologies tied to specific department-level requirements. For example, a typical PACS installation is a department-level installation with dedicated hardware components primarily designed to address the image storage and distribution needs of a small number of physicians in a single department at a single location (e.g., radiology or cardiology, but not both). While PACS installations may offer substantial automation benefits within a single department over traditional film-based imaging workflow, they do not offer the full potential of an integrated, enterprise-level digital image management solution. In addition, these systems typically do not integrate with clinical and administrative systems without expensive custom programming. Many hospitals that have embraced image automation have had to purchase multiple PACS and software tools for various departments and imaging devices, which presents integration challenges and requires significant investment. Many PACS were developed prior to the recent growth in the use of 3D imaging techniques and do not easily scale to handle the data volume of current imaging devices. PACS visualization tools are typically limited and are not distributable across the network except in a very rudimentary manner. Our Solutions We provide enterprise-level information technology solutions for the clinical analysis and management of digital medical images within health care provider organizations. 3 Table of Contents With our solutions, our customers and their constituents, including physicians, technologists and nurses, can improve overall clinical and diagnostic quality and eliminate much of the labor and other costs of dealing with film, disparate department-level information systems, exam scheduling and redundant data entry. We also help to alleviate heavy burdens on a health care provider’s staff by automating medical image workflow for physicians and technologists. We believe our enterprise visual medical system, or EVMS, solution provides the benefits of current department-level PACS, including increased automation and better efficiency over traditional film-based methods, with added enterprise-level and cross-enterprise-level / community-level connectivity and advanced visualization tools that are not available with a typical PACS installation. We have designed our solutions to offer benefits to the following groups: Group Benefits from our Solutions Administration (CEO, CFO and COO) • Demonstrable return on investment • Better service to physicians • Improved staff productivity • Improved satisfaction of referring physicians • Elimination of many routine, non-productive and non-clinical tasks Information Technology (CIO and IT Department) • Lower total cost of operation • Fault tolerant, redundant and reliable • Ease of integration with different clinical information systems • Multi-site, multi-institutional standards-based integration • Focused, high quality implementation services Diagnostic Physicians (Radiologists) • Integrated and easy-to-use visualization tools • Multi-point access to visualization tools and images • Productivity gains • Easy access to unified visual records Treating Physicians (Cardiologists, Surgeons, etc.) • Availability of easy-to-use, specialty-specific visualization tools • Faster turnaround of information for treatment planning • Facilitates collaborative analysis with diagnostic physicians • Improved treatment planning • Easy access to unified visual records Payor • Ability to avoid duplicate exams through cross-enterprise access 4 Table of Contents Our solutions offer the following: Enterprise-Level Image Content Management. Our solutions provide a single data repository for medical images created by digital imaging devices and related patient data across a single or multi-facility enterprise, whether from radiology, cardiology, pathology, orthopedics, obstetrics, gynecology or other departments. This single repository serves as a central point of workflow and content management for those images. Our solutions catalog, archive and route these images through our software, combining centralized control over sensitive patient imaging records with increased availability to physicians and other authorized users in multiple medical specialties and at any network access point. Our solutions integrate with our customers’ existing clinical information and administrative systems, serving as the patient’s visual medical record repository, reducing the risk of billing errors, and lowering the average cost per exam through automation of complex and manual film-based imaging workflow. Advanced Visualization Technology. Our solutions quickly deliver web-enabled software toolsets and images to physicians throughout the enterprise for diagnostic analysis and treatment planning. Our advanced visualization software allows physicians to see 2D and 3D views of human anatomy and to manipulate, navigate within, and compare imaging exams in order to better visualize internal anatomic structure and pathology. This visualization of medical images can lead to improved clinical diagnosis, disease screening and treatment planning by physicians. Physicians can access our advanced visualization software from any network access point, including home, office or throughout the health care facility. Our intelligent user interface automatically adjusts for the specialty and preferences of each user, the type of imaging device used to create the image, and the particular body part and tissue type being examined. Specialty-Specific Clinical Applications. With our acquisition of Camtronics in November 2005, we added a full suite of products to enhance capabilities of specialists in the cardiology department. These solutions manage images and clinical data relating to cardiac catheterization, echocardiography, nuclear cardiography, vascular ultrasound, and hemodynamics. We are focused on the development of enhancements and additional functionality to our existing advanced visualization software to further meet the needs of other clinical specialties, including orthopedics, oncology, pathology, obstetrics, gynecology, and neurology. Open Standards-Based Software. We believe that our use of open standards has enabled us to design software that stores and manages information faster and with fewer hardware resources than competitive systems, a benefit we believe is becoming increasingly important as the data size of many imaging exams grows. We have designed our software to make full use of the DICOM standard for medical image data. Our commitment to open standards such as DICOM and the standard protocol for the storage of text-based patient information, Health Level 7, or HL7, makes our software compatible with new imaging device technologies and other clinical information systems that conform to these standards. We lower our customers’ total costs by eliminating the need for translation to and from non-standard or proprietary communication methods which often require the purchase of additional hardware and software. Effective Implementation, User Adoption and Support Services. We focus on delivering effective implementation, user adoption and support services as an integral part of our solution. During the implementation phase of our solution, we use proven project management principles to facilitate rapid and complete adoption by our customer. After implementation, we monitor system use and, when appropriate, intervene to make the adjustments we consider necessary to prevent anticipated problems from occurring. We believe our focus on implementation and support services ensures that our customers’ investments in our solutions achieve their financial and operational objectives. Our Strategy Our goal is to become the industry leader in enterprise-level information technology solutions for the content management, workflow, and visualization of digital medical images. Key elements of our strategy include: 5 Table of Contents Expand Our Market Share by Attracting New Customers. We believe a full range of health care organizations, from stand-alone imaging centers to multi-site hospital systems, represent a largely underserved market for our solution. Our current base of installed facilities represents a small portion of the prospective customers for our solution. We are expanding our sales and marketing efforts so that we may pursue new customers. As we pursue new customers, we intend to continue focusing our efforts on the large, multi-site health care providers that typically recognize the greatest benefits and fastest return on an investment in our solution and represent the largest individual sales opportunities. However, we believe there is additional opportunity in the smaller hospital market, and we are developing a strategy for expansion into the smaller hospital market to address this growing segment of the U.S. medical image management market. We believe our position as a sole source provider of an advanced visualization and image management solution, together with our implementation expertise and our installed base of nationally recognized reference customers will help us attract new customers. Increase Penetration With Existing Customers. We believe that using our successful relationships with existing multi-facility health care customers to expand our penetration within those organizations and selling additional functionality to our existing installed base are effective ways to increase our operating margins by reducing the average cost of sales and increasing the total revenue from existing customers. • Increase Installations with Existing Multi-Facility Customers. As of December 31, 2006, we had customer relationships with 19 multi-facility health care providers that control 263 hospitals. Our initial contracts with these customers often provide for implementation of the content management functions and sometimes the advanced visualization functions of our EVMS solution at only a portion of the facilities managed by the parent company. We believe there are opportunities to expand our installed base at facilities that are part of multi-facility systems in which we have a customer relationship with the parent company. • Cross Sell to Existing Customers. We are also in a strong position to sell additional functionality to our existing customers, including advanced visualization tools for image-intensive medical specialties that may not have been part of the initial sale. As follow-on sales opportunities, we offer our advanced visualization software and other products and additional functionality to radiologists and other specialty groups within the organization. Our offering of our HeartSuite cardiology products gives us broader cross-selling opportunities than we had prior to the acquisition of Camtronics. Enhance Our Product Offerings. We believe developing or acquiring additional functionality for our existing software, including improved advanced visualization suites of products for multiple specialties will further strengthen our position in the market. Further enhancements to our RadSuite advanced visualization software and our HeartSuite cardiology products should assist us in selling our solution to multi-hospital systems and expanding our existing customer relationships. We also plan to invest further in workflow and integration software to speed integration with existing clinical information systems, including electronic health record systems. Continue to Deliver Superior Implementation, User Adoption and Customer Support Services. As a single-source provider of advanced visualization and image management solutions, we believe the quality of our implementation, user adoption and support services helps to differentiate us from our competition. We expect to continue to invest in, refine and develop new services to provide our customers with the highest level of services available and to provide us with a base of recurring revenue. We believe delivering superior services will enable us to capture increased market share and enhance our existing customer relationships, thereby increasing our competitiveness. Maintain Our Open-Standards Focus. We believe our commitment to open standards, such as DICOM and HL7, lowers our development costs, lowers our customers’ total cost of ownership, improves speed and quality of our solution’s integration and differentiates us from our competition. By designing our solution around open standards, we believe we maximize our solution’s integration with our customers’ clinical information technology systems and imaging devices, which reduces our customers’ total cost of ownership. We also believe our open-standards model lowers the hardware costs associated with implementing our solution because 6 Table of Contents it enables our customers to use relatively inexpensive, off-the-shelf hardware to visualize, analyze and manipulate images. We believe that our commitment to open standards enables our customers to maximize their return on investment in imaging devices, computer hardware and clinical information technology systems. Our Product and Service Offerings We provide an enterprise-level information technology solution for the clinical analysis and management of digital medical images within health care provider organizations. Our solution consists of image management and advanced visualization software, comprehensive support services and third-party components. Software EVMS includes three principal software components: clinical content management, RadSuite advanced visualization tools, and clinical workflow through a dynamic user interface. Clinical Content Management is our image archival and distribution management software. Clinical Content Management supports the DICOM standard for digital medical images enabling a high level of scalability that facilitates fast, efficient access to storage and retrieval of such images in enterprise applications. The system includes auto-routing and predictive capabilities that improve workflow in a clinical environment by performing time intensive tasks in anticipation of their need, thereby minimizing network traffic and facilitating responsiveness across the enterprise. Clinical Content Management employs a distributed architecture that enables administrative changes without the need to shut down the system, minimizes system memory requirements, increases the speed of access to images through a relational database and provides customized reporting capabilities. In a distributed multi-hospital environment, the system also manages local “caches” at remote sites, which provide local image acquisition and temporary storage for rapid retrieval. Permanent image data is simultaneously stored at the centralized long-term archive. Each remote cache also acts as a proxy server to provide a view of images throughout the enterprise, no matter where the image was originally generated. The use of a local cache ensures that no individual facility is dependent on the wide-area network for the sourcing of locally created images. Additional benefits include: • Multi-Site and Multi-Department. The system permits authorized users to access images from any network access point, including home, office or throughout the health care facility. It handles images created by multiple hospital departments and multiple image devices. • Enterprise and Cross Enterprise-Level Scalability. We can install Clinical Content Management as a single facility application or as an enterprise-level solution to support the medical image management needs of large multi-facility health care providers. Our solutions can support multiple institutions to unify the patient record. • Fault Tolerance. We use an advanced, fault tolerant, high availability configuration on redundant server clusters with redundant storage systems. We support either full backup and recovery or mirrored archives in two different locations, enabling uninterrupted operation in the event of the loss of one archive. • Open Standards. Unlike many competitive image management systems, our system has been designed using an open standards architecture that leads to better integration with imaging devices and clinical information systems, improves the speed and reliability of transfers of medical image data and provides a lower total cost of ownership by avoiding unnecessary translation overhead. RadSuite Advanced Visualization Tools consist of our suite of software tools for the advanced visualization and analysis of digital medical images by physicians and medical professionals. Components include graphics and image processing modules that present information to physicians and medical professionals using relevant multi-speciality tools through a dynamic user interface. Physicians can manipulate 2D and 3D image-related content in a variety of ways including organization, rotation, inversion, magnification, and enhancement of images in a 7 Table of Contents collaborative environment for sharing findings with other physicians or medical professionals. These tools help physicians better visualize internal anatomic structure and pathology. Additional benefits include: • Speed and Efficiency. The ability to improve efficiency for physicians through better tools and reduce latency for care by access at the point of need. • Sophistication. The software makes use of complex processing techniques such as multi-planar reformat, or MPR, and volumetric imaging for 3D imaging applications. • Integration. Imaging tools include integrated 2D and 3D viewing methods that can be used simultaneously with the same image or images on the same computer. • Ease of Use. The system is intuitive and user-friendly so physicians can easily adapt its use into their current practice patterns. • Application to Numerous Clinical Specialties. The user interface automatically adjusts for the type of physician using the system, user preferences, the type of imaging device used to create the image (such as CT, X-ray or MRI), and the particular body part and tissue type being imaged. • Platform Compatibility. The system uses a common personal computer graphics standard, allowing off-site physicians to use inexpensive personal computers and permitting the enterprise to make use of lower priced workstations with off the shelf graphics hardware. • Web-enabled. Physicians or other authorized users have secure access to images and advanced visualization tools at any network access point. Clinical Workflow is our standards-based software used to manage integration and data migration between our solution and other health information systems throughout the enterprise. We utilize a DICOM imaging device worklist, which automates technologist workflow, prioritizing and managing processes based on other systems such as admissions. In addition, Clinical Workflow includes tools that enable the integration of our solution with electronic health records and other information systems such as voice recognition. The benefits of the system include the rapid and systematic integration of the patient’s digital medical images with the rest of the enterprise’s clinical and administrative information systems without the need for custom programming, integration services, or third-party translation devices. Our HeartSuite enterprise solutions for cardiology were added to our product offerings as a result of our acquisition of Camtronics. Our cardiology solutions include HeartSuite VERICIS, HeartSuite Hemodynamics and HeartSuite Cardiovascular Information System, or CVIS. HeartSuite VERICIS creates a complete digital record of images and reports for patients in the cardiac catheterization lab, in echocardiography (including specialized applications for pediatric echocardiography), in vascular ultrasound and in nuclear cardiology. Like all our solutions, VERICIS is built to conform to DICOM and HL7 standards. Benefits include: • elimination of film and paper-based processes; • reduction of redundant tasks, including cine film handling, data entry, archiving and transcription; • streamlined access to patient studies and reports; and • scalable and expandable to meet needs of any size cardiology department. HeartSuite Hemodynamics is a comprehensive monitoring and data management system that integrates cardiac catheterization lab procedural information into the patient’s cardiac record. HeartSuite Hemodynamics provides functionality for data collection, real-time waveform analysis, inventory control, patient charging and procedure 8 Table of Contents reporting in a single system. Benefits include the ability to mine data and create custom reports that aid in driving improvements in quality and efficiency. HeartSuite CVIS is a web-based system designed to provide the cardiology department with all its information needs in one application. It summarizes the patient cardiovascular state and aggregates all clinical information in one location, tracks patient clinical trends and supports care planning. The system aids in workflow in the department of cardiology by scheduling labs and office encounters, tracking patients while they are in the hospital, and capturing and aggregating cardiovascular billing codes. The information in the system is stored in a central database that provides cross-modality statistics for operational, administrative and other business needs. Service and Support We believe that our implementation, user adoption and support services differentiate us strategically from our competitors. Large-scale infrastructure information technology installations can present special challenges to an enterprise, regardless of its size or sophistication. We believe that information technology projects often fail due to inadequate implementation and support services and believe that our service model better meets the installation and investment objectives of our customers. Our “Customer Success Program” includes the following components: • Adoption Success Management (ASM). ASM is our services program that facilitates rapid and complete adoption by all relevant constituents during the implementation phase, which typically lasts several months. We have designed ASM to maximize the user implementation experience, promote behavioral change at all levels and increase the probability of complete implementation success. • Total Solution Management (TSM). TSM is an ongoing set of support services to ensure that our systems are highly available and optimally configured for the users. Through continuous remote monitoring of our solution, we analyze system and user behaviors and, when appropriate, intervene and make the necessary adjustments to prevent anticipated problems from occurring. We provide standard 24-hour service and support for our software and any third-party components we provide to the customer. We provide revenue mix analysis services, using data combined from hospital information systems and the enterprise’s imaging environment data, to understand and prioritize key equipment and physician revenue producers for a hospital. This analysis can provide critical data to hospital administrators for capital and technology investment planning initiatives. We also provide additional professional information technology services to our customers that have specific needs related to system integrations and interfaces and data migration. Third-Party Components Our solutions typically include the installation and implementation of platform components that we procure from third parties. We believe that providing third-party components helps us deliver a comprehensive solution that meets the needs of our customers. Some of the third-party components we provide include: • Servers. Our software and the database run on a cluster of standard redundant servers. • Data Storage. We support industry standard storage configurations, including fault-tolerant redundant array of independent disks, or RAID, systems. • Backup/Recovery. Our solution typically includes a tape library-based backup and recovery system that provides backup for our database, configuration files and the digital medical images. We also offer an optional configuration with mirrored archives in two locations, enabling uninterrupted operation in the event of the loss of one archive. • Workstations and Monitors. Customers typically implement our advanced visualization software using standard personal computer workstations and high-resolution monitors for visualization within the facility. 9 Table of Contents • Database. Our software applications operate on Oracle ™ database technology and other standard relational database applications. • Computed Radiography. We offer computed radiography devices manufactured by Eastman Kodak Company. Computed radiography devices convert analog X-ray images into digital images. • Advanced 3D Analysis Tools. We offer Vital Images’ Vitrea software as an option for advanced clinical applications for visualization and integrated analysis tools that complement our enterprise native visualization and workflow capabilities. Through the desktop integration of our respective products, physicians can access Vitrea’s advanced visualization and analysis tools and review the image data seamlessly without interrupting workflow. • Electronic Health Record, Enterprise Practice Management, and Electronic Health Exchange. We offer Allscripts’ TouchWorks EHR and PM solutions to our healthcare system and hospital customers, thereby offering another system to enhance patient care and lower healthcare costs for physicians and healthcare professionals. The robust integration between these respective solutions can enable physicians who use TouchWorks in ambulatory offices to visualize and analyze images from the practice or hospital. Desktop sharing rapidly presents our visualization and analysis tools which are tailored to the specialist’s needs. • We also offer a software toolset for orthopedic surgeons which is licensed from Orthocrat, Ltd. and a voice recognition dictation system from Lanier Worldwide, Inc. Our Technology We believe the following technologies and strategies help us compete more effectively: • Native DICOM Compatibility. We have written our software to conform to the DICOM standard for medical image storage and workflow management as promulgated by the American College of Radiology and the National Electronics Manufacturer’s Association. DICOM is an industry standard in medical imaging that defines the data elements, communication protocols, storage formats and workflow methods associated with medical imaging data and processes. Our software stores and manages medical images using native DICOM communications, preserves the DICOM information associated with the image and follows DICOM workflow methods. Using native DICOM communication means our solution does not require “translation” devices for converting the DICOM information into a proprietary storage or other format. We believe our commitment to DICOM as the underlying protocol for our software is a competitive advantage, delivering faster streaming, more efficient storage of the image and the ability to integrate our software to new imaging devices. • Proprietary DICOM-Toolkit. While DICOM is an industry standard protocol for medical image data management and storage, the software toolsets used to process, manage and use DICOM information are generally unique to particular software vendors. Unlike many of our competitors who license DICOM-toolkits from third parties, we have developed and own a DICOM-toolkit that we believe permits us to more rapidly integrate DICOM-based information into our software. We believe that the ownership and continued development of our DICOM-toolkit is a core technology strategy. • Commitment to the IHE Technical Framework. The Radiological Society of North America and the Healthcare Information Management Systems Society created the Integrated Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) technical framework. IHE is a protocol for the integration of DICOM image information and HL7 text-based patient information. We believe our commitment to IHE helps to ensure that our software integrates seamlessly with HL7-based billing and patient record information systems implemented at our customer sites. • Compatibility with the OPEN GL Graphics Standard. Our advanced visualization software performs sophisticated 3D rendering and other graphics intensive functions that provide physicians the ability to view 3D medical images for diagnosis and treatment planning. Historically, workstations and graphics 10 Table of Contents hardware that could provide advanced visualization functionality were cost prohibitive. Our advanced visualization software uses the OPEN GL graphics standard, which permits our customers, or off-site physicians affiliated with our customers, to purchase inexpensive personal computers and graphics hardware to perform sophisticated image analysis. • Component-Based Software Engineering. Our software architecture is based on a component-based services model. Our software development framework supports common and domain specific components that can be plugged in while the system is operating. By building flexible, dynamic, reusable components, we gain flexibility to add functionality to and increase the reliability of our system because we can remedy problems at the component rather than the entire application level. Customers Our customers range in size from single imaging centers to large multi-facility healthcare networks. As of December 31, 2006, we had installed our EVMS solution in 190 hospitals or other health care facilities, 158 of which are members of multi-facility networks with which we have customer relationships. At December 31, 2006, we had implemented our RadSuite advanced visualization solution in 73% of our current installed EVMS customer base. This is an increase over the 66% of our installed base that used our RadSuite advanced visualization software at December 31, 2005. There are also 270 hospitals utilizing our HeartSuite solutions in their cardiology departments. Our customers include members of the following multi-facility networks with ten or more facilities: Allina Hospitals and Clinics, Ascension Health, Aurora Health Care, BJC Healthcare, Catholic Healthcare West, Christus Health, Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, Sisters of Mercy Health Systems and Sisters of St. Francis Health Services. Contracted implementations for Ascension Health constituted 27% of our contracted backlog as of December 31, 2006, compared to 33% as of December 31, 2005. Sales and Marketing We use a direct sales model, with sales representatives who have substantial experience in health care-related direct sales. Our sales representatives undergo rigorous training in our products as well as the needs of each constituent group within our potential customers. During our sales cycle for a typical customer we might, at various times, present to the Chief Information Officer, the Director of Radiology or Cardiology, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Medical Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, and several key physicians. Each of these constituencies may have different priorities and evaluation criteria, and our direct sales representatives must be capable of presenting a compelling business case to each. Our sales representatives are supported by our sales support and marketing communications team, which provides technical, demonstration, lead generation, market development and proposal assistance. Research and Development As of December 31, 2006, we had 108 employees who are primarily dedicated to research and development activities. In addition to our employees, we also utilize contractors from Apollo Health Street on a routine basis to perform specified research and development activities. We utilize clinical advisory boards and end-user focus groups to advise us on the clinical functionality of our solutions. We have focused our research and development mission on the continued evolution of intelligent, fault tolerant, highly scalable image management and visualization systems for mission-critical medical image management applications. We adhere to a philosophy of open standards-based solutions, and have designed our visualization platform in a way that enables us to efficiently add new functionality. We are focusing our research and development efforts on: • improving physician and technologist workflow; • expansion of content management to cover medical documents beyond DICOM data; 11 Table of Contents • expansion of content management to service communities; • improving reporting and data analysis capabilities; • developing and refining visualization capabilities including new 3D and analysis applications; and • extending imaging tools to referring physicians in multiple specialties. We follow a formal product development process and employ dedicated product development personnel. Under our formal product development process, internal and external (customer) requests for added features or functionality are forwarded to our product management strategy and architecture team. This team evaluates and prioritizes these potential product enhancements taking into account expected costs, anticipated value to the customer, regulatory requirements, timing and resource availability. After these enhancements are approved, our engineering team develops them and subjects them to quality testing and documentation requirements before we make them generally available to our customers. We invested $6.2 million, $11.7 million and $17.4 million for research and development in 2004, 2005 and 2006, respectively. Competition The markets for the digital medical image management and visualization systems that we offer are highly competitive. Many customers purchase products and services from us and from our competitors as well. We compete with companies that fall into four primary categories: • companies that manufacture and sell digital imaging devices such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions and Philips Medical Systems, who may integrate some of the functionality provided by our products into their equipment or bundle it with the equipment sale; • companies that have traditionally sold imaging films such as Eastman Kodak Company and Fujifilm Medical Systems USA, Inc.; • companies that have traditionally sold health care information technology applications such as McKesson Corp. and Cerner Corp.; and • a number of smaller companies that sell department-level or cardiology-specific PACS or specialty visualization tools. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater name recognition and more established distribution networks and relationships with health care providers. To compete effectively, we often must persuade the prospective customer to separate its purchasing decisions with respect to imaging equipment from its purchasing decisions with respect to content management, workflow, and visualization tools, because many of our competitors offer imaging devices that they package or bundle with licensed or owned image management applications. Our ability to compete successfully will depend on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: • product innovation; • regulatory decisions; • product quality and performance; • customer service and support; 12 Table of Contents • the experience of our sales, marketing and service professionals; • rapid development of new products and features; • price; • continued active involvement in the development of DICOM and other standards-based medical communication protocols; and • product and policy decisions announced by competitors. Intellectual Property We rely generally on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to all of our software technology. In addition, we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our software technology. To date, four patents have been issued. As filed in the U.S., Europe, and Japan, our patent applications generally relate to DICOM-type image transmission and, in particular, to methods and apparatus for streaming DICOM-type images via a network. In addition, we have also filed a patent application in the U.S. that generally relates to a method and system for storing, communicating and displaying image data. In particular, this application relates to methods and systems for storing image data on a server, communicating at least a portion of the image data from the server to a client via a network, and displaying images at the client using the communicated data. We have one device and method patent related to improved quantitative coronary artery analysis. This patent is on file in the U.S. and Canada. This patent, while enforceable, has limited use in our current product offerings and product development efforts. We have an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license from the University of Alabama Birmingham (UAB) Research Foundation for certain technology used in our Clinical Content Management software. We do not own all of the software and hardware used in our solution, but we have all of the licenses from third parties we believe are necessary to offer our current solution. As we develop new products and new versions of products, it may be necessary to renegotiate with such third parties to make sure our licenses are complete and valid. In such a case, our existing third-party licensors may not be willing to make the needed licenses available on terms acceptable to us, but we believe in most cases there are alternative vendors from whom we could obtain hardware, other components or any necessary licenses for software. Emageon®, Camtronics®, Heartsuite, VERICIS®, Ultravisual, Enterprise Visual Medical System, EVMS, Mammosuite, I-Readmammo, Enterprise Body Transparency, Studynotes, and our logo are our trademarks or service marks. All other trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 438 employees, 108 of whom were primarily engaged in research and development, 71 of whom were primarily engaged in sales and marketing, 207 of whom were primarily engaged in providing technical installation and support services, and 52 of whom were primarily engaged in administration and finance. With respect to location, 130 of these employees are located at our corporate headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama; 187 of these employees are located at our offices in Hartland, Wisconsin; 33 of these employees are located at our office in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; and the remainder of our employees are located at customer 13 Table of Contents locations or in regional sales and support locations. None of our employees is a party to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Government Regulation We market, sell, and distribute our products in the heavily regulated U.S. health care industry. Our business operations and financial arrangements in this industry may be subject to a complex array of federal laws and regulations governing medical devices. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing reimbursement and referrals because our products are used in diagnosing and treating Medicare and Medicaid patients. Moreover, a number of states have adopted their own versions of such laws and regulations, though these may vary significantly from one state to the next. Violation of such federal and state laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties involving substantial fines and imprisonment. Food and Drug Administration. Our radiology and cardiology PACS and hemodynamic measurement recording software products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, pursuant to the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, or the FDA Act. Each device that we wish to distribute commercially in the U.S., unless otherwise exempt, requires regulatory clearance prior to commercial distribution. The FDA cleared EVMS visualization and infrastructure tools; the radiology PACS; Heartsuite cardiovascular tools; VERICIS hardware and software; the cardiology PACS; and Heartsuite Hemodynamics (formerly known as Physiolog), the hemodynamic measurement recording software, through the 510(k) notification process. We have applied, and will continue to apply for 510(k) clearance for additional clinical uses of our devices. Clearance under the 510(k) process typically takes 90 days to over a year from the date of a complete filing, depending on the number of questions the FDA has concerning the submission. Some applications may never receive clearance because the FDA raises safety issues or requests additional data that may not be economical to produce. Therefore, there is the risk that FDA clearance for any of our future devices, or for further clinical uses of our existing devices, may be delayed or not cleared. There is also the risk that FDA clearance, once received, may contain more restrictive conditions of use than we would like. Moreover, the FDA is always free to subsequently withdraw any clearance previously granted. For cases where the 510(k) approval process is not available, the FDA’s other approval process, the pre-market approval process, or PMA, is a more costly, lengthy and uncertain process than the 510(k) process. The PMA application requires human clinical trial data to enable the FDA to evaluate whether the PMA contains sufficient, valid scientific evidence that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA process generally requires one to several years from the date the applicant submits the device for FDA review, if, in fact, the FDA ever approves the device. Even then, the FDA may condition its approval on stringent limitations regarding the indicated uses for which the device may be marketed. To date, our software and related comprehensive solutions have not required approval under the PMA process. However, there can be no assurance that our products will not require PMA approval in the future, or, in such an event, that such approval would be forthcoming. The FDA can conduct announced and unannounced inspections of our facilities at any time. We have procedures in place to ensure that protocol is followed in accordance with the FDA guidelines with respect to announced and unannounced inspections. We believe that our manufacturing operations, and those of our suppliers, comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and current good manufacturing practices. Medical device manufacturers and device user facilities are required to complete Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, upon the occurrence of MDR reportable events. For device manufacturers, an MDR reportable event is one about which a manufacturer has received or becomes aware of information that reasonably suggests that one of its marketed devices caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned and the device, or a similar device marketed by the manufacturer, would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The filing by manufacturers or user facilities of a significant number of MDRs with the FDA could potentially cause the FDA to commence post-marketing investigations, which could revise device labeling, include warnings, restrict use, or could even lead to a withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals. 14 Table of Contents Health Canada. Our radiology and cardiology EVMS, and hemodynamic measurement recording software products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the Medical Devices Bureau of the Therapeutic Products Directorate, or TPD, Health Canada. Health Canada is the Canadian federal regulator responsible for licensing medical devices in accordance with the Food and Drugs Act and Regulations and the Medical Devices Regulations. The TPD applies the Food and Drug Regulations and the Medical Devices Regulations under the authority of the Food and Drugs Act to ensure that the pharmaceutical drugs and medical devices offered for sale in Canada are safe, effective and of high quality. Each device that we wish to distribute commercially in Canada, unless otherwise exempt, requires attainment of the appropriate type of medical device license prior to commercial distribution. We currently hold licenses to market, sell, and distribute many of our products in the Canadian health care industry. To date, we have sold no devices in the Canadian marketplace, but our intent is to market in the future all devices for which we hold licenses. We have procedures in place to ensure that we are compliant with the Canadian Medical Device Regulation as documented in the Food and Drugs Act: Medical Devices Regulations for Canada: SOR/98-282 which includes quality system certificates for ISO 13485:2003, CMDCAS for the classes of our devices. HIPAA Privacy and Security Regulations. The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule has imposed a complex system of requirements on covered entities for complying with this basic standard. Under the Security Rule, covered entities must establish administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. The HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules apply directly only to covered entities such as health plans, health care clearinghouses, and health care providers who engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions. We are not a covered entity, but our customers are. In order to provide to a customer certain services that may involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules require our customers to enter into “business associate” agreements with us, which must provide adequate written assurances with respect to, among other things, how we will use and disclose the protected health information. In addition to requiring us to provide these adequate written assurances, the business associate agreements with our customers also impose significant privacy and information security requirements on us, and there can be no assurance that we will not in the future be subject to liability in connection with those business associate agreements. Government Reimbursement. Our customer base consists of health care providers, all of whom are subject to regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including those which administer Medicare and Medicaid programs. Accordingly, our customers are sensitive to legislative and regulatory changes in, and limitations on, the government health care programs and changes in reimbursement. During recent years, there have been numerous federal legislative and administrative actions that have affected the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including past adjustments that have reduced payments to hospitals and other health care providers. For example, in an effort to curb its increasing costs associated with diagnostic imaging, the federal government has recently implemented a percentage reduction applicable to a certain component (i.e., the technical component) of reimbursement for combined diagnostic imaging services under specified circumstances. It is likely that the federal government will consider and could implement future reductions in Medicare reimbursement or other changes that adversely affect our health care customer base. Any such changes could adversely affect our own financial condition by reducing the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. Fraud and Abuse. A number of federal laws, loosely referred to as fraud-and-abuse laws, are used to prosecute health care providers, physicians and others that fraudulently or wrongfully obtain reimbursement that increases costs to any federal health care program. Given the breadth of these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that they will not be found applicable to our business or the financial arrangements through which we market, sell, and distribute our products. These include federal anti-kickback and self-referral laws and regulations. 15 Table of Contents • Anti-Kickback Law. The anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act prohibit the exchange of anything of value with the intent to encourage utilization of items or services payable under a federal health care program. Courts have construed the anti-kickback law to mean that a financial arrangement will violate such law if even one of the purposes of one of the parties is to encourage patient referrals or other Medicare/Medicaid business, regardless of whether legitimate purposes also exist for the arrangement. Penalties for federal anti-kickback violations are severe. Conviction can result in up to five years imprisonment, a $25,000 fine per offense, and exclusion from participation under federal health care programs. Violators may also be assessed civil monetary penalties ranging from $10,000 to $50,000 per offense, as well as damage assessments equal to three times the total amount of the kickback. We believe that all of our arrangements with physicians and health care facilities have been fully lawful. But given the broad sweep of the federal anti-kickback law, we cannot assure you that all such arrangements will be found compliant with such law if examined by government regulators, to the extent that such regulators determine that any of our arrangements are subject to such law. • Stark Law. The Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the “Stark Law,” also prohibits certain types of referral arrangements between physicians and health care entities. Physicians are prohibited under the original Stark Law, its subsequent Stark II amendment, and the Stark implementing regulations from referring patients for “designated health services” reimbursed under the Medicare and Medicaid programs to entities with which they have a financial relationship or an ownership interest, unless such referrals fall within a Stark exception. Violations of the statute can result in civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per improper referral and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We do not believe that our arrangements with physician consultants or other health care providers violate the Stark Law, but we cannot provide assurances to such effect, nor can there be assurance that we will not in the future be subject to Stark Law penalties. • State Law. Various states have enacted equivalents of the foregoing federal statutory and regulatory provisions. These state law equivalents would apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor, including commercial payors. Many of these laws vary significantly from state to state, rendering compliance a costly and uncertain endeavor. Available Information Our internet website address is www.emageon.com. We make available free of charge through our website our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves various risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in this section. The information discussed below should be considered carefully with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the other documents and materials we file with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information we may publicly disseminate from time to time. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Any of the following risks or uncertainties that develop into actual events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations, or on the market price of our common stock. Our industry includes many large companies that have significantly greater resources and other competitive advantages, and we may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. We compete with large, well-capitalized, multinational corporations such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions, McKesson Corp., and Philips Medical Systems. These competitors have significantly greater brand recognition and more established distribution networks and relationships with health care providers. As our market grows, it may attract other competitors with substantial resources, such as large information technology, or IT, 16 Table of Contents integration companies. Because of their greater resources, many of our existing or potential competitors can respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or product lines and changes in customer requirements. These companies may also be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, sales and marketing, and patent prosecution and litigation, and they can also finance capital equipment sales for their customers. In addition, some of our competitors bundle their image management software products with their sales of digital imaging devices at little or no extra cost. This practice may limit our opportunity to compete for customers who are also purchasing these devices. Our ability to market and sell our solution successfully to prospective customers depends, in part, on persuading these customers to separate the purchase of digital imaging devices from the selection and purchase of related software and services. Because we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution and support capabilities of our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes quarterly results difficult to predict and could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors which are outside our control. Comparing our operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Each of the following factors, among others, could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter: • Long Sales Cycle: Many of our customers are large organizations with lengthy and unpredictable purchasing processes. Because our solution is a major capital expenditure involving a multi-year commitment, it can take a significant period of time to close a sale. We typically have to educate our prospective customers on the benefits of our solution and obtain approval from senior management. Consolidation in the health care industry and increased penetration of PACS in the hospitals in the U.S. may also delay or extend the sales cycle for affected customers. As a result, our enterprise solution has a typical sales cycle, from the initial contact to the placing of an order, of nine to twelve months, and sometimes longer. This long and unpredictable sales cycle may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. • Timing of Revenue: A significant portion of our revenue each quarter comes from sales made in prior periods, as we implement our solution and perform services under multi-year maintenance and support agreements with our customers. As a result, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our products in a particular quarter will not necessarily be reflected in revenue in that quarter and may adversely affect our revenue and profitability in future quarters. Moreover, a majority of our customers now purchase perpetual licenses from us. Unlike term licenses, where license revenue and certain implementation fees are recognized over the life of an initial term typically ranging from two to seven years, with perpetual licenses the full software license fee and associated implementation fees are recognized as revenue in the month when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Because revenue recognition may not be achieved in the period expected, our revenue could fluctuate substantially from quarter to quarter solely due to the timing of satisfying our revenue recognition criteria. • Implementation Delays: Once we enter into a customer contract, our recognition of revenue from that contract depends, to a significant extent, on the timing of our implementation of the project. Customer implementation schedules may be delayed for reasons beyond our control, such as customer scheduling changes, delays in acceptance testing by customers, unusual integration issues or delays in obtaining equipment from third-party vendors. Delays in the implementation of a particular project may require us to delay the recognition of anticipated revenue from one quarter to another and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly results also may fluctuate due to other factors, such as the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements by us or our competitors and changes in the mix of our software and third-party components, which have significantly lower gross margins, included in the systems we sell. If our revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter, we may have difficulty managing our business, and our quarterly results could 17 Table of Contents fall below expectations of investors and stock market analysts which could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past. We have incurred substantial operating losses in each fiscal year since our inception in December 1998, and it is possible that we will incur operating losses in the future. As a result of our operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $57.4 million at December 31, 2006. You should not consider our historical growth in revenue or our profitability in the fourth quarter of 2006 as necessarily indicative of our future performance. In addition, we expect our sales, marketing, research and development and other operating expenses to increase in the future as we expand our business. If our revenue does not grow to offset these expected increased expenses or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may incur substantial additional operating losses. Our ability to achieve and maintain annual profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to market successfully our solution, create new product offerings, respond to competitive developments and attract and retain qualified sales, technical and management employees. Even though we may achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations on an annual basis. Our failure to manage growth effectively may strain our management, personnel and other resources, which could impair our ability to meet customer requirements. We have grown very rapidly and must continue to add customers and employees to be successful. Our business could suffer if we fail to manage effectively our growth. For the two year period ended December 31, 2006, our annual revenue grew by 166% and the number of our employees increased from 199 to 438, including employees added through our November 2005 acquisition of Camtronics. While it is unlikely that we can continue to grow at this rate, continued growth may significantly strain our management, personnel and other resources. Simultaneously undertaking numerous projects with large multi-site health care providers could also strain our existing resources and cause our implementation and customer service to suffer. This could cause us to fail to satisfy material performance requirements under our contracts which could, under certain circumstances, permit customers to terminate their contracts with us and would adversely affect our reputation. Failure to successfully execute our acquisition strategy may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Our overall growth strategy has involved, and is expected to continue to involve, the acquisition of businesses, technologies, services and products. For example, in November 2005, we acquired Camtronics, which added a new suite of cardiology tools to our advanced visualization software offering, increased our customer base by over 300 medical facilities, and increased our employee headcount by 212 employees. Our growth strategy is dependent, in part, upon our ability to identify, finance and acquire complementary businesses. If we are unable to successfully identify and consummate suitable acquisitions, we may not be able to execute our growth strategy, and may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenue at the rates we currently contemplate. Implementing our acquisition strategy could result in integration risks, operating difficulties, dilution or other adverse financial consequences. Implementation of our acquisition strategy may impose significant strains on our management, operating systems and financial resources. The pursuit of acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are consummated. If we acquire additional businesses, we may not be able to integrate the acquired operations successfully with our business or we may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business. If we are unable to integrate any new business successfully, we could be required either to dispose of the acquired operation or to undertake changes to the acquired operations in an effort to integrate them with our business. In either event, our business operations and financial condition could suffer a material adverse effect. Future acquisitions could 18 Table of Contents result in potentially dilutive issuances of our equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could harm our financial condition. Acquisition financing, if needed, may not be available on favorable terms. Further, there can be no assurance that future acquisitions will not have an adverse effect upon our operating results, particularly during periods in which the operations of acquired businesses are being integrated into our operations. We are dependent on our senior executive management, and the loss of any member of senior executive management may prevent us from managing and growing our businesses effectively. Our success depends largely on the continued service of our senior executive management, including Charles A. Jett, Jr., our Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; Grady Floyd, our Chief Operating Officer; and W. Randall Pittman, our Chief Financial Officer. We have entered into executive employment agreements with these key members of senior executive management, and with Vicki Moore, our Chief Administrative Officer; Dan McCutcheon, our Executive Vice President of Product Management; and Joe Verciglio, our Executive Vice President of Service. The terms of these employment agreements are two years for Mr. Jett, 18 months for Mr. Floyd, and one year for Mr.Pittman, Mr.McCutcheon, Mr.Verciglio, and Ms. Moore, and renew automatically on a day-by-day basis thereafter unless we or the officer give notice to stop the automatic renewal. The loss of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to replace any member of senior executive management in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Our products are complex and are operated in a wide variety of network configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Because our software is complex, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur when we first introduce our products or when we release new versions. As we develop product enhancements and extensions, the complexity of our software may increase. Our products often are installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software and equipment and networking configurations, any of which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our products. In the past, we have encountered failures in certain of our product offerings after their installation, and we have been required to expend significant resources to repair the problem and sustain the customer relationship. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after general release. The occurrence or existence of such errors, failures or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, contract cancellations, loss of or delay in market acceptance or claims by customers or others. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in one of our customers’ medical image storage systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our solution, the market perception of our products and services could be harmed. We may not be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms to fund our operations, develop product enhancements or fund acquisitions, which could adversely affect our growth prospects. We expect our cash resources to be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. We may need to raise additional funds, however, through public or private financings, strategic relationships or other arrangements in order to: • develop new technologies; • enhance existing product lines, such as expanding our advanced visualization tools product line to apply to additional clinical specialties; • fund additional sales and marketing programs; • invest in or acquire complementary businesses, product lines or technologies; or • hire additional personnel, particularly to expand sales, marketing, research and development. 19 Table of Contents If it becomes necessary to raise additional funds, our ability to operate our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to identify additional sources of capital to fund these activities on acceptable terms. We may not be successful in expanding our sales and marketing efforts into new market segments, which may have an adverse impact on our growth strategy. Historically we have focused our sales and marketing efforts on large, multi-site health care providers, but our management has determined that expansion of our sales and marketing efforts into new market segments is an important part of our overall growth strategy. Currently we are developing a strategy to expand our sales and marketing efforts into the smaller hospital segment, and may in the future expand these efforts into additional market segments. This type of expansion is subject to many of the risks inherent in establishing a new business enterprise, and acceptance of our products and services in new market segments will depend on our ability to, among other things, successfully: • refine and adapt our products and services for new or different applications; • offer our products and services at price points that are competitive in the market segment; • create and develop demand for and market acceptance of our products and services in the market segment; • market, promote and distribute our products and services, and establish public awareness of our brand in the market segment; • compete with other companies already in the market segment; and • establish and maintain sufficient internal marketing, sales and customer service infrastructures to support these efforts. Although customers in the small hospital market segment are closely related to the large, multi-site health care providers, there can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully enter this market segment. Successful entry into this market segment may require considerable resources and expenditures, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, if we are unable to successfully enter this market segment, it could affect the execution of our overall growth strategy, and we may not be able to expand our business or increase our revenues at the rates we currently contemplate. The loss of Ascension Health or future major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition because portions of our future revenues are tied to continuing relationships with significant customers. We have historically depended on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and we are dependent on Ascension Health for a large portion of the revenue to come from our contracted backlog. Contracted future revenue from Ascension Health was approximately $42.7 million, or 27% of our contracted backlog at December 31, 2006. In addition, our future revenue and growth significantly depend on our ability to sell add-on functionality and new products to existing multi-facility customers such as Ascension Health. As a result, the loss of Ascension Health or any other future major customers or their failure to renew maintenance and support agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. 20 Table of Contents We depend on highly specialized personnel, and the loss or failure to identify, hire, motivate and retain additional highly specialized personnel could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. Our future success and the execution of our growth strategy depend on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel for technical and sales positions within our organization. For example, when hiring an advanced visualization software engineer, we generally seek individuals with advanced post-graduate degrees in specialized fields. We also must identify experienced candidates for sales positions who can effectively communicate the cost, clinical and information technology benefits of our products to multiple constituents at our target customers. Our competitors, employers in other industries, academic institutions and governmental entities and organizations also often seek persons with similar qualifications. As a result, we may not be able to identify and hire the personnel we need in a timely manner. In addition, to hire, motivate and retain these personnel, we believe we must provide them with a competitive compensation package, which may include stock-based incentives, such as restricted stock or stock options. Increases in shares available for issuance under our stock incentive plans generally will require stockholder approval, and our stockholders may not approve future increases. Recent changes in the accounting for stock options may cause us to issue fewer stock options and rely more on restricted stock grants instead, which may be less attractive to potential employees. If this occurs, we may find it more difficult to hire, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. Changes in our third-party reselling arrangements may affect our revenues and our ability to deliver a complete solution, which may adversely impact our revenue and cause customer dissatisfaction. We resell third-party computer hardware components from numerous companies, including IBM Corporation, Network Appliances, Inc., EMC Corporation and Eastman Kodak Company, as part of our solution. As the cost of third-party hardware components continues to decline, our revenue from third-party component sales and installation and, consequently, our overall revenue per individual sale may also decline. If we cease selling third-party hardware components as part of our solution or if the vendors of these products, some of whom are also competitors, curtail or delay our ability to resell them as part of our solution, we may be limited in our ability to provide our customers with a complete solution, and our revenue, profit and reputation may decline. Our implementation capabilities and performance also may be adversely affected if our customers are required to obtain the necessary third-party components on their own. We may not be able to respond to changes in our industry, competitive technologies, changes in customer requirements or evolving industry standards, which would result in reduced revenue and profit margins. Because our industry is subject to rapid technological change, we must constantly monitor changes in industry standards, customer requirements and other matters. If we fail to anticipate and respond adequately to these changes in a timely manner, our business and operating results could suffer a material adverse effect. Although we currently support emerging industry standards, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conform to future evolving standards in a timely fashion, or that such conformity, if achieved, will benefit our competitive position in the market. In anticipation of new product introductions by us or our competitors, customers could refrain from purchasing our existing products. New products could render certain of our existing products obsolete, or we may fail to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted by our customers. Furthermore, as the market for our solution matures, we may be subject to pricing pressures, and our revenues and profits may decline. Any of these events could delay or prevent our customers from acquiring our solution or require us to reduce the price of our solution, either of which could lead to a decrease in revenue and profit margins. Our customers depend on third-party reimbursement. A reduction or other change in third-party reimbursements to our customers could negatively affect our business by reducing the demand for our products or adversely impacting our pricing. We sell our products to hospitals, clinics, imaging centers and other health care providers which typically bill various third-party payors, such as government health programs, private health insurance plans, managed care organizations and other similar programs. Third-party payors increasingly challenge the prices charged for medical services and, in some instances, have put pressure on service providers to lower their prices or reduce their services. We cannot predict what changes third-party payors will make to their reimbursement methods. Third-party payors can indirectly affect the pricing or relative attractiveness of our products by regulating the maximum amount of reimbursement that they will provide for generating, storing and interpreting medical images. A decline in 21 Table of Contents reimbursements may decrease the amount which physicians, clinics and hospitals are able to recover for such services and may reduce the number and complexity of medical images. A reduction in the use or reimbursement of digital medical images may lead to our customers decreasing their capital investment budgets, which could significantly reduce the demand for our products. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products, if such clearances are delayed, or if our products are subject to FDA recall, we will be unable to distribute and market some of our products. Our advanced visualization software products are subject to FDA regulation of medical devices. Medical devices are a highly regulated class of products. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion and record-keeping procedures for medical devices, including imaging software and systems. The process of obtaining FDA marketing clearance for new products and new applications for existing products can be time consuming and expensive. The FDA has granted us marketing clearance, pursuant to the 510(k) pre-market notification process, for our currently marketed uses of our advanced visualization tools. Before we can market other clinical uses of our advanced visualization tools, generally we must seek 510(k) clearance for the additional clinical uses. We cannot assure you either that the FDA will grant clearance for future uses of our advanced visualization tools, that such clearance will be broad enough to allow all the requested new uses, that such clearance will not be delayed, or that once clearance is obtained, it will not be necessary for us or the FDA to recall one or more of our products. Also, the FDA may not grant clearance with respect to our future products or enhancements, or future FDA reviews may involve delays that could adversely affect our ability to market such future products or enhancements. Moreover, our future products or enhancements may be subject to the FDA’s more lengthy and expensive pre-market approval process if we are unable to demonstrate that such products and enhancements meet the FDA’s requirements regarding similarity to pre-existing approved devices. Furthermore, it is possible that even if we receive required regulatory clearances and approvals from the FDA to market a given product, these clearances and approvals may include limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Also, the FDA can withdraw product clearances and approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, quality system manufacturing regulations, unapproved manufacturing changes, or if unforeseen problems arise after initial approval. The FDA could also limit or prevent our distribution of products. We might conduct a voluntary recall or the FDA could recall such products if it deems them defective, a health risk, or in violation of FDA regulations. These regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and any such future interpretations could adversely affect us. The FDA may also inspect us and our facilities from time to time, or the facilities of our suppliers, to determine whether we are in compliance with quality system regulations and current good manufacturing practices. If the FDA determines that we are not in compliance with such regulations, it could require us to correct these deficiencies or could suspend the manufacture and sale of the products. The agency could also impose civil penalties, including fines, recall or seize products and, in extreme cases, impose criminal sanctions. If we fail to comply with other potentially applicable health care regulations, we could face substantial penalties, and our business, operations, and financial condition could be adversely impacted. We do not deliver health care services directly to patients, control health care referrals, or submit claims to or otherwise bill Medicare, Medicaid, or any other third-party payors. However, we have engaged certain physicians to serve as consultants on our behalf, entered into service agreements and license agreements with health care entities, and had certain of our products evaluated at health care facilities. Because of the breadth of many health care laws and regulations, and their potential impact on our customers, we cannot assure you that such laws and regulations will not apply to our business, either directly or indirectly. We could be subject to health care fraud and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the following: • The Federal Anti-Kickback Statute prohibits the exchange of anything of value with the intent to encourage utilization of services payable under a federal health care program. Courts have construed this statute as being implicated even when only one of the purposes of one of the parties is to encourage patient referrals or other federal health care business, even if legitimate purposes also exist for the arrangement. 22 Table of Contents • The Federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the Stark Law, prohibits (absent an applicable Stark exception) referrals for designated health services reimbursable under Medicare or Medicaid by a physician to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship. • The Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, has increased the scope of federal fraud-and-abuse laws by applying them to prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with any health care benefit program, not only federal health care programs. Although we are not a covered entity that is directly subject to liability under the HIPAA privacy and security standards, we could be impacted by such regulations through contractual relations with those of our customer base who are covered entities. • State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback, self-referral, and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor (including commercial insurers). State laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA (thus complicating compliance efforts) and some of which may apply to us directly, may also affect our operations. If our operations are found to violate any of these laws or other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any such occurrences could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Determining such risk is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts, and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. Any action against us for violating such laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend such an action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, compliance with applicable federal and state privacy, security, and electronic transaction laws may require us to modify our operations with respect to the handling of patient information. Implementing these modifications may prove costly and time consuming. At this time, we are not able to determine the full consequences to us, including the total cost of compliance, of these various federal and state laws. If the market for digital medical imaging products and services does not develop as we expect, our business strategy may be ineffective, and we may not be able to grow our business. We operate in a developing industry where customer acceptance and market demand is still evolving. The digital medical imaging solutions market is still developing due to: • the availability of high performance computers and storage systems at reduced prices; • the continuing development of industry standards for the generation, transmission and storage of medical imaging data; • changing dynamics in the health care industry, including consolidation and third-party reimbursement, which are driving increased automation across multiple sites; and • changing medical practices, including demand for more and better medical imaging. There can be no assurance that this market will continue to develop in the manner we anticipate, that the market will provide growth opportunities for us or that our business strategies will be successful. If the market for digital medical imaging products and services fails to develop as we expect, our business, results of operations and financial condition are likely to be materially and adversely affected. 23 Table of Contents Product liability claims may require us to pay damages, reduce the demand for our products, and harm our reputation. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims and other adverse effects of product failures. We provide products that, among other things, assist in clinical decision-making, provide access to patient medical image information and assist in creating patient treatment plans. Although no one has brought a claim against us to date alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect or other failure of any of our products, our customers or their patients may assert claims against us in the future if our software fails to provide accurate and timely information. A product liability claim can cause us to incur significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the claim’s merit or eventual outcome. If we are required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage to one or more plaintiffs, such payments could significantly harm our financial condition. A product liability claim also could harm our reputation and lead to a decline in revenue. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas to compete more effectively with us. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage based on our intellectual property. In addition, we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our software technology. However, to date, only one of our patent applications has resulted in the issuance of a patent, and we cannot assure you that these patent applications will result in patents being issued in the U.S., Europe or Japan, or that such patents will be issued in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if we obtain such patents, they may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Additionally, because we use or include open source software, which is not proprietary, in the components of some of our products, our competitors may freely use such open source software, and in certain circumstances may freely use such components. This could harm our competitive position, decrease our market share or otherwise harm our business. The prosecution and enforcement of copyrights and patents relating to components licensed or sold to us by third parties is not within our control, and without these components, we may be unable to provide our solution or maintain our technological advantage. If the third-party suppliers of components used by us fail to protect their patents or copyrights or if these components are found to infringe on the rights of another party, the functionality of our products could suffer, and our ability to bring new and existing products to market could be delayed or even prohibited. Our operating results could suffer if we become subject to a protracted infringement claim or litigation or a significant damage award. Substantial intellectual property litigation and threats of litigation exist in our industry. We expect that digital image visualization software, image management software and open source software products may become increasingly subject to third-party infringement or other claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products increases. Any claims, with or without merit, could have the following negative consequences: • costly litigation and damage awards; • diversion of management attention and resources; 24 Table of Contents • product sales and distribution delays or suspensions, either temporary or permanent; and • the need to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful infringement or other claim against us could result in a substantial damage award and materially harm our financial condition. Our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could prevent us from selling our products and adversely affect our business and financial results. Our directors may not be held personally liable for certain actions, which could discourage stockholder suits against them. As permitted by Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our directors shall not be personally liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with limited exceptions. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, we provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers. Delaware law and certain anti-takeover provisions of our corporate documents could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or a change in control even if it would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that may delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control that is not first approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our stockholders receive an attractive offer for their shares or if a substantial number or even a majority of our stockholders believe the takeover may be in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain approval from our board of directors prior to pursuing a transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control include the following: • our board of directors may issue 200,000 shares of blank check preferred stock without stockholder approval and that may be substantially dilutive or contain preferences or rights objectionable to an acquiror; • our board of directors is comprised of classes of directors with staggered, three-year terms so that only a portion of our directors is subject to election at each annual meeting; • our board of directors can amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders; • stockholders cannot act by written consent; • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors for election or to submit proposals at stockholder meetings; • we may be obligated to make payments under executive employment agreements in the event of a change in control; and • some Delaware statutes restrict or prohibit certain transactions with affiliated or interested parties and permit the adoption of “poison pills” without stockholder approval. These provisions could also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these provisions may also entrench our management by preventing or frustrating any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not Applicable. 