Item 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business Generally Decreased oil and gas industry expenditure levels will adversely affect our results of operations. We depend upon the oil and gas industry and its ability and willingness to make expenditures which are directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices. Demand for our products and services is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies, including national oil companies. If our customers’ expenditures decline, our business will suffer. The industry’s willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon the availability of attractive drilling prospects and the prevailing view of future product prices. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. A sudden or long term decline in product pricing could materially adversely affect our results of operations. Any prolonged reduction in oil and natural gas prices will depress levels of exploration, development, and production activity, often reflected as reductions in rig counts. Such lower activity levels could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Many factors affect the supply and demand for oil and gas and therefore influence product prices, including: • the level of production; • the levels of oil and gas inventories; • the expected cost of developing new reserves; • the actual cost of finding and producing oil and gas; • the availability of attractive oil and gas field prospects which may be affected by governmental actions or environmental activists which may restrict drilling; • the availability of transportation infrastructure, refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; • depletion rates; • the level of drilling activity; • global weather conditions and natural disasters; • worldwide economic activity including growth in underdeveloped countries, including China and India; 14 • national government political requirements, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Companies (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil and government policies which could nationalize or expropriate oil and gas exploration, production, refining or transportation assets; • the impact of armed hostilities involving one or more oil producing nations; • the timing and extent of alternative energy sources, including liquefied natural gas (LNG); • environmental regulation; and • tax policies. Extended periods of low oil prices or unsuccessful exploration results may decrease deepwater exploration and production activity and adversely affect our business. Similarly, any such extended periods of low oil prices could adversely affect the level of expenditures for oil sands development and production in Canada. Our offshore products segment depends on exploration and production expenditures in deepwater areas. Because deepwater projects are more capital intensive and take longer to generate first production than shallow water and onshore projects, the economic analyses conducted by exploration and production companies typically assume lower prices for production from such projects to determine economic viability over the long term. The economic analyses conducted by exploration and production companies for very large oil sands developments are similar to those performed for deepwater projects with respect to oil price assumptions. Perceptions of longer-term lower oil prices by these companies can reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large scale development projects, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Because the oil and gas industry is cyclical, our operating results may fluctuate. Oil prices have been and are expected to remain volatile. This volatility causes oil and gas companies and drilling contractors to change their strategies and expenditure levels. We have experienced in the past, and we may experience in the future, significant fluctuations in operating results based on these changes. We do business in international jurisdictions whose regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the United States. Our business may suffer because our efforts to comply with United States laws and regulations could restrict our ability to do business in international jurisdictions, relative to our competitors who are not subject to United States laws and regulations. Our international business operations include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist and where our competitors who are not subject to United States laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, can gain competitive advantages over us by securing business awards, licenses or other preferential treatment in those jurisdictions using methods that United States law and regulations prohibit us from using. For example, our non-U.S. competitors are not subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. We may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence. While we and our subsidiaries are committed to conducting business in a legal and ethical manner, there is a risk of violating the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or other applicable anti-corruption regulations that generally prohibit the making of improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Violations of these laws could result in monetary penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of technical personnel. Many of the products that we sell, especially in our offshore products segment, are complex and highly engineered and often must perform in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to 15 employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize and enhance these products. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. The demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. We have already experienced high demand and increased wages for labor forces serving our well site services segment, notably in our accommodations business in Canada. Significant increases in the wages paid by competing employers could further result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay or both. When these events occur, our cost structure increases and our growth potential could be impaired. The level and pricing of tubular goods imported into the United States could decrease demand for our tubular goods inventory and adversely impact our results of operations. Also, if steel mills were to sell a substantial amount of goods directly to end users in the United States, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. U.S. law currently restricts imports of low-cost tubular goods from a number of foreign countries into the U.S. tubular goods market. If these restrictions were to be lifted or if the level of imported low-cost tubular goods were to otherwise increase, our tubular services segment could be adversely affected to the extent that we then have higher-cost tubular goods in inventory or if prices and margins are driven down by increased supplies of tubular goods. If prices were to decrease significantly, we might not be able to profitably sell our inventory of tubular goods. In addition, significant price decreases could result in a longer holding period for some of our inventory, which could also have a material adverse effect on our tubular services segment. We do not manufacture any of the tubular goods that we distribute. Historically, users of tubular goods in the United States, in contrast to outside the United States, have purchased tubular goods through distributors. If customers were to purchase tubular goods directly from steel mills, our results of operations could be adversely impacted. We are subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations that may require us to take actions that will adversely affect our results of operations. Our drilling operations and our offshore products business are significantly affected by stringent and complex foreign, federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. We could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of, or conditions caused by, prior operators or other third parties. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change in the future, possibly resulting in more stringent requirements. If existing regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change or are more stringently enforced, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the: • issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; • denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations; • reduction or cessation in operations; and • performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities. Our operations are subject to many hazards. We face the following risks under our insurance coverage: • we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; • we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance, such as damages from environmental contamination or terrorist attacks; 16 • the dollar amount of any liabilities may exceed our policy limits; and • we may incur losses from interruption of our business that exceed our insurance coverage. Even a partially uninsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or consolidated financial position. We are subject to litigation risks that may not be covered by insurance. In the ordinary course of business, we become the subject of various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, products, employees and other matters, including occasional claims by individuals alleging exposure to hazardous materials as a result of our products or operations. Some of these claims relate to the activities of businesses that we have sold, and some relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of such businesses. We maintain insurance to cover many of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under our insurance. It is possible, however, that a judgment could be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. We might be unable to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. We sell our products and services in competitive markets. In some of our business segments, we compete with the oil and gas industry’s largest oilfield services providers. These companies have greater financial resources than we do. Our business will be adversely affected to the extent that these providers are successful in reducing purchases of our products and services. Risks Related to Our Operations We are susceptible to seasonal earnings volatility due to adverse weather conditions in our regions of operations. Our operations are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather in the areas in which we operate, most notably in Canada and the Gulf of Mexico. A portion of our Canadian work force accommodations, catering and logistics operations is conducted during the winter months when the winter freeze in remote regions is required for exploration and production activity to occur. The spring thaw in these frontier regions restricts operations in the spring months and, as a result, adversely affects our operations and sales of products and services in the second and third quarters. Our operations in the Gulf of Mexico are also affected by weather patterns. Weather conditions in the Gulf Coast region generally result in higher drilling activity in the spring, summer and fall months with the lowest activity in the winter months. In addition, summer and fall drilling activity can be restricted due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. For example, during 2005, a significant disruption occurred in oil and gas drilling and production operations in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico due to damage inflicted by hurricanes Katrina and Rita. As a result of these seasonal differences, full year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. We might be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our offshore products and well site services segments, particularly our patents relating to our FlexJoint® technology and intervention tools utilized in the completion or workover of oil and gas wells. The market success of our technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce our proprietary rights in these technologies, to preserve rights in our trade secret and non-public information, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. If any of our patents or other intellectual property rights are determined to be invalid or unenforceable, or if a court limits the scope of claims in a patent or fails to recognize our trade secret rights, our competitive advantages could be significantly reduced in the relevant technology, allowing competition for our customer base to increase. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services may be 17 sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure of our company to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could adversely affect our competitive position. If we do not develop new competitive technologies and products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. The market for our offshore products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better performance in increasingly greater depths and harsher conditions. If we are not able to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. Loss of key members of our management could adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of key members of management. If any of our key managers resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain “key man” life insurance for any of our officers. If we have to write off a significant amount of goodwill, our earnings will be negatively affected. As of December 31, 2006, goodwill represented approximately 21% of our total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses than the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. Current accounting standards, which were effective January 1, 2002, require a periodic review of goodwill for impairment in value and a non-cash charge against earnings with a corresponding decrease in stockholders’ equity if circumstances indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable (see Note 6 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K). If we were to lose a significant supplier of our tubular goods, we could be adversely affected. During 2006, we purchased from a single domestic supplier approximately 46% of the tubular goods we distributed and from three domestic suppliers approximately 79% of such tubular goods. We do not have contracts with any of these suppliers. If we were to lose any of these suppliers or if production at one or more of the suppliers were interrupted, our tubular services segment and our overall business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. If the extent of the loss or interruption were sufficiently large, the impact on us would be material. During periods of strong demand, we may be unable to obtain critical project materials on a timely basis. Our operations depend on our ability to procure on a timely basis certain project materials, such as forgings, to complete projects in an efficient manner. Our inability to procure critical materials during times of strong demand could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares for a premium. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, such as a classified board, limitations on the removal of directors, on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders and on stockholder action by written consent and the inability of stockholders to call special meetings, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our board of directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could increase the difficulty for a third party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders’ ability to sell their shares of common stock at a premium. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 18 