Risk Factors”. If we are unable to protect our proprietary rights, we may fail to compete effectively or operate profitably. This was the case in September 2005 when Teva and Barr launched a generic of fexofenadin HCI before the expiration of the U.S. patents and while patent litigation against these companies remains pending. 50 Table of Contents Sanofi-aventis also faces competition from over-the-counter (OTC) products which pharmacies sell without a prescription, generally at a price lower than the price of drugs sold only with a doctor’s prescription. Another competitive issue facing pharmaceutical manufacturers is the increasing incidence of parallel trade, also known as re-importation, which takes place when drugs sold abroad under the same trade name as in a domestic market are then imported into the domestic market by parallel traders, who may repackage and/or resize the original branded product or offer products for sale by alternative means, such as by mail or the internet. The rationale for parallel trade lies in economic advantages arising from different prices for the drugs due to different sales costs, market conditions (e.g., intermediate trading stages) and tax rates or because of national regulation of prices. There are indications that parallel trade is affecting markets in several regions, mostly in European countries. Regulation The global pharmaceutical industry is highly regulated. National and supranational regulatory authorities administer numerous laws and regulations covering the testing, approval, labeling, manufacturing, importation, exportation, labeling and marketing as well as post-marketing commitments of drugs, and also review the quality, safety and efficacy of pharmaceutical products. Of particular importance is the requirement to obtain regulatory approval for a pharmaceutical product from a country’s national regulatory authority before such product may be marketed in that country and also to maintain the dossier thereafter. These regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether a substance can be developed into a marketable product and the amount of time and expense associated with such development. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that a license to market the product will be granted. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements and may refuse to grant, or may require additional data before and also after granting, an approval, even though the relevant product has been approved in one or several other countries. Regulatory authorities also have administrative powers that determine product recalls, seizure of products and other sanctions. Europe, the United States and Japan all have very high standards for technical appraisal. Approval takes usually one to two years but may vary by country, from six months to, in some cases, several years from the date of application, depending on the quality of data produced, the degree of control exercised by the regulatory authority, the review procedures, the nature of the product and the condition to be treated. In recent years, intensive efforts have been made among the United States, the European Union and Japan to harmonize registration requirements. Many pharmaceutical companies are now able to prepare and submit a common technical document (CTD), that can be used in each jurisdiction for a particular product with only local or regional adaptation. However, the requirement of many countries (including Japan and several Member-States of the European Union) to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement levels with government regulators can substantially extend the time to market after initial approval to market is granted. While marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical products in the European Union have been substantially centralized with the European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products (EMEA), pricing and reimbursement remains a matter of national competence. See( “— Pricing”), below. In the European Union, there are three main procedures by which to apply for marketing authorization: the Centralized Procedure, the Mutual Recognition Procedure and the decentralized procedures. • The Centralized Procedure is compulsory for medicinal products derived from biotechnology and is also available at the request of companies for other innovative products. In the Centralized Procedure the license application is submitted directly to the European Agency for the (EMEA). The application is evaluated by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP). The European Commission makes the final binding decision. Once granted, an approval via the Centralized Procedure is valid throughout the European Union without further action and the drug may be marketed within all EU Member States. 51 Table of Contents • The Mutual Recognition Procedure operates by having one country (i.e. the Reference Member State (RMS)) carry out the primary evaluation of a new compound. Once the first license is granted by the RMS other EU Member States (Concerned Member States or (CMS)) then must decide whether they will accept or reject the approval granted by the RMS. • The Decentralized Procedure applies to products which have not yet obtained a marketing authorization in a European Member State. The key procedural difference compared to the Mutual Recognition Procedure is that an initial marketing authorization is not issued by the RMS. All the Concerned Member States (CMS) can be involved early in the process by contributing to the draft assessment report. As compared to MRP, more opportunities exist for discussion and consensus to be reached leading to closure of the procedure at a several possible points. The EMEA has introduced a series of initiatives aiming at improving the openness and the transparency of its activities, such as procedures dealing with the publication of the European Public Assessment report which will now be more detailed. New initiatives are proposed with regards to the publication of Questions and Answer documents and of Safety Bulletins for medicines for human use. National authorizations are still possible but are only for products intended for commercialization in a single EU Member State, or for line extensions to existing national product licenses. In the United States, applications for drug registration are submitted to and reviewed by the FDA. The FDA has broad regulatory powers over all pharmaceutical products that are intended to be, and which are, commercialized in the United States. To commercialize a product in the United States a New Drug Application is filed with the FDA with data that sufficiently demonstrate the drug’s quality, safety and efficacy. Approval for a new indication of a previously registered drug requires the submission of a supplemental NDA (sNDA). Pharmaceutical manufacturers have committed to publish protocols and results of clinical studies performed with their compounds in publicly accessible registries (Clinical Trials Registry and Clinical Trial Results Registry). See “— Research and Development — Pharmaceutical Research and Development — Global and Focused organizations : Discovery and Development – Development” above. Generic drug manufacturers may file an Abbreviated NDA (ANDA). These applications are “abbreviated” because generic manufacturers, except for the quality part of the dossier, need only to demonstrate that their product is bioequivalent (i.e., that it performs in the same manner as the innovator’s product). Consequently, the length of time and cost required for development of such product is considerably less than for the innovator’s drug. See “—Patents, Intellectual Property and Other Rights”, below, for additional information. The ANDA procedures in the United States can be used for pharmaceutical products classified as “drugs”, but are not currently available for other product categories including vaccines. Once marketing authorization is granted, the new drug (or new indication) may be prescribed by physicians. Thereafter, the drug owner must submit periodic reports to regulatory authorities including any cases of adverse reactions. For some medications, regulatory authorities may require additional studies to evaluate long-term effects or to gather information on the use of the product under special conditions. In addition, manufacturing facilities must be approved by regulatory authorities, and are subject to periodic inspections. Non-U.S. manufacturing facilities that export products for sale in the United States must be approved by the FDA in addition to local regulatory approvals, and are also subject to periodic FDA inspections. In Japan, the regulatory authorities can request bridging studies to verify that foreign clinical data are applicable to Japanese patients and also require data to determine the appropriateness of the dosages for Japanese patients. These additional procedures have in the past created differences of several years in the registration dates of some of our products in Japan compared to our other major countries. Pricing In most markets in which we operate, governments exercise some degree of control over pharmaceutical prices. The nature of these controls and their effect on the pharmaceutical industry vary greatly from country to country. In recent years, national healthcare reimbursement policies have become more stringent in a number of 52 Table of Contents countries in which we do business as part of an overall effort to reduce the cost of healthcare. Different methods are applied to both the demand and supply side to control pharmaceutical costs, such as reference pricing, patient co-payment requirements, reimbursement limitations and volume containment measures, depending on the country. We believe that the governments in many markets important to our business will continue to enact measures in the future aimed at reducing the cost of pharmaceutical products to the public. It cannot be predicted with certainty what future effects the various pharmaceutical price control efforts will have on our business. These efforts could have significant adverse consequences for the pharmaceutical industry as a whole and, consequently, also for sanofi-aventis. Increasing budgeting and price controls, the inclusion of patent protected drugs in national reference price systems and approved drug lists and other similar measures may continue to occur in the future. United States In the United States, the initiation of the new Medicare Part D drug benefit program, combined with Medicaid, establishes the federal government as almost equal to the private health insurance sector in terms of total drug reimbursement. The Medicaid program requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers pay rebates to individual states on Medicaid reimbursed pharmaceutical products so that the Medicaid program receives the manufacturer’s “best price” or a minimum discount provided by law. Individual state governments are actively seeking ways to further reduce the cost of pharmaceutical products by exerting more formulary control of available products in the program through a discount bid process as well as the historical preference for generic product usage. However, the estimated total drug spend in Medicaid has been reduced by 50% due to the shift of the “dual Medicare/Medicaid eligible” patients to Part D. The new Part D program is implemented through third party market drug benefit providers utilizing formulary design and a discount bid process to attain access similar to the private sector. Benefit Managers, both in Part D as well as for the private sector plans, dynamically manage the formulary process and products in order to control overall cost trends. Further attempts to reform Medicaid and Medicare may occur, due to the U.S. government motivation to keep costs down via future pricing and reimbursement constraints. Private sector plans will continue to pressure prescription cost increases by greater generic utilization and cost shifting to the beneficiaries. France In France, the government regulates prices of new prescription and non-prescription drugs and price increases and decrease for existing drugs. A new reference pricing system was introduced in France in July 2003 under which the government reimburses some off-patent products only up to a certain level (generic price or the so-called reference price) with patients paying the remainder if the original brand does not cut its price to the level of the reference price. In addition, the French health ministry de-listed several products deemed to have “insufficient” medical benefit. In return, the government introduced the principle of a “fast-track” procedure to set prices and provide reimbursement for new innovative drugs. This measure could extend by many months the duration of commercialization for drugs under patent protection. In July 2004, the French Parliament passed a Health Insurance Bill (“Projet de Loi Relatif à l’Assurance Maladie”) with the objective to reduce costs by around €10 billion per year and to raise additional revenues totaling €5 billion per year. A major impact on the pharmaceutical industry will be that, if health insurance spending on drugs increases by more than the government’s target of 3% in 2004 and 1% per annum in subsequent years, the pharmaceutical industry will be required to pay rebates equivalent to up to 50% up to 1.5%, 60% up to 2% and 70% of the excess. Beginning January 1, 2005, a new organization, the High Authority for Health (“Haute Autorité de la Santé”), will evaluate medicines and other forms of treatment, offer recommendations on what the health insurance system should reimburse, and issue guidelines on good clinical practice. On 23 November 2005 the Parliament approved the Social Security Finance Act for 2006, which provides for some cost containment measures for medicines, inter alia: • Increase from 0.6% to 1.76% of the special tax on reimbursed medicines sales; • Price reduction for ‘generics groups’ (a generic group consists of the brand product and its copies) by 15% or 25% for molecules that have been off-patent for more than two years; • De-listing of products with insufficient medical value and reduction of the reimbursement rate from 35% to 15% for veinotonics. 53 Table of Contents Japan The Ministry for Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) controls the pricing of pharmaceutical products in Japan. The MHLW determines the drug reimbursement price paid by the National Health Insurance (NHI) to medical institutions. The NHI drug reimbursement price is determined for each prescription drug by the MHLW. Since the price at which medical institutions purchase drugs can be set at a lower price than the reimbursement price through negotiation with wholesalers, a gap may exist between the selling price and the NHI drug price. Periodically (every two years in principle), the MHLW carries out a revision of drug reimbursement prices aimed at bringing NHI prices closer to the market prices. The latest pricing round in April 2004 averaged a decrease of 4.2%, which was the lowest in two decades. Having implemented wide-ranging reforms to its healthcare system over a three-year period, Japan’s new Pharmaceutical Affairs Law (PAL) was finally completed in April 2005. The government has since recognized the need for reforms to its pricing and reimbursement system in light of the country’s demographic problems. The reforms include raising co-payments from 20% to 30% for the elderly, and promoting generic substitution by changing a prescription. The April 2006 price cuts average of 6.7% which was caused by the increasing purchasing power. Germany Since the late 1980s, the German government has imposed a wide range of supply- and demand-side restrictions intended to curb the level of overall spending on pharmaceuticals. A reference pricing system that requires patients to pay the difference between the actual price of the prescribed drug and the reference price has been in existence since 1989. In practice, patients are generally not willing to pay the difference. As a result, pharmaceutical companies face the decision either to reduce prices to the reference price level or risk a substantial drop in prescriptions. In 1996, the German government suspended reference pricing for all patent-protected drugs approved in Germany after December 31, 1995. In 2004, reference pricing for patent-protected drugs was re-introduced by the new healthcare legislation. Patent-protected drugs without demonstrable therapeutic superiority according to the criteria of the Joint Federal Committee can be subject to reference pricing. Further to reference pricing, individual prescription limits for physicians were introduced in 2001, which have to be negotiated annually between the Statutory Health Insurance (SHI) and the National Association of SHI-accredited Physicians. The legislation is also aimed at increasing the prescription of generic and imported drugs. In 2002, a sales quota for imported drugs came into force. Pharmacists were obliged to fulfill an import quota of 5.5% in 2002 and 7% in 2003, respectively. The new healthcare legislation reduced the import quota to 5% in 2004. In addition, pharmacies were obliged to dispense parallel imports only if the imported drug is 15% or €15 cheaper than the original drug. In 2003, a price freeze and a compulsory rebate of 6% for all prescription drugs not covered by reference pricing came into force. In 2004, this rebate was increased to 16%, limited until the end of 2004. The price freeze ended in December 2004 and the compulsory rebate was reduced to 6% in January 2005. Meanwhile, Germany’s newly created Institute for Quality and Economic Efficiency (IQWiG)—has began to conduct Health Technology Assessments (HTAs), similar to its British counterpart, NICE. IQWiG is an advisory body, but its recommendations have an impact on pricing and reimbursement decisions for innovative drugs. Italy A reference price reimbursement for off-patent products system has been in place in Italy since September 2001. The reference price is currently calculated as the price of the cheapest drug in the category at the regional level. Beginning January 2004, a new public body, the Italian medicines agency (AIFA), has taken over all the responsibilities covering medicine approval, pricing and reimbursement, as well as pharmaceutical expenditure in general. The AIFA has the authority to reassess the reimbursement list on an annual basis and decide which changes need to be implemented. In June 2004 the AIFA imposed a 6.8% price cut on the ex-factory price of all reimbursed medicines, equivalent to a 4.12% reduction of the reimbursed public price level. In line with its powers, the AIFA approved a restructuring of the reimbursement list (“Prontuario”) that involves price cuts for almost 300 high-selling presentations and an increase in the number of drugs for which patients do not have to pay. As a result, the number of fully reimbursed medicines, both patented and generic, increased. To help offset 54 Table of Contents the cost of this decision and to rein in the expected overshoot in pharmaceutical spending for 2004, as well as cap the growth for 2005, the AIFA approved the following measures: (a) Reduction of the retail public price affecting 294 product presentations (a total of 56 active ingredients) implemented on January 1, 2005. These are active ingredients that in the first half of the year 2004 recorded a sales increase above the average of the whole market (8.6%). Prices can be reduced by a maximum of 10%. (b) Extension of the current compulsory 6.8% reduction of the ex-factory price up until October 2005. The two measures are cumulative, and consequently the 294 high selling presentations had been subject to both price cuts. Despite a decline in pharmaceutical spending following this price cut, the Italian Ministry of Health also imposed a price-freeze of Class C drugs (reimbursable, but at 0%)—with only biannual price increases allowed, starting in January 2007. There has been a marked shift in the use of pharmaceuticals from the retail to the hospital sector—as Italian regions encourage hospitals to provide drugs for home use to patients upon discharge, thus utilizing the 50% lower price of hospital medicines. The measures mentioned in (a) and (b), above, recovered the overspending of 2004. The estimated budget overrun for 2005 borne by drug companies is estimated to be about €0.8 billion. Two temporary measures were initiated on January 15, 2006 with the aim of recovering this overspend: 1. 4.4% Public Price Decrease for all reimbursed products (retail and hospital) 2. 1% rebate on wholesaler prices to be paid only by drug companies (limited to retail and non generic products) The AIFA will check the results of these measures before the end of the second quarter of 2006 and depending on expenditure levels, could take other decisions. United Kingdom The Department of Health has power, now contained in the Health Act 1999, to limit prices of pharmaceuticals and control the profits of pharmaceutical companies. Against this background, a voluntary agreement called the Pharmaceutical Price Regulation Scheme (“PPRS”) has been concluded between the industry association and the Department of Health. Within a framework relating to profit, manufacturers are free to set initial prices but restricted in making subsequent price changes. The previous form of the PPRS was in place from 1999 to 2004. In November 2004 the Department of Health announced that it had re-negotiated the PPRS for the next five years for the period through 2010. This includes an overall 7% price cut, which the companies can achieve by modulating reductions on their products covered by PPRS. The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (“NICE”) is empowered to issue guidelines in relation to therapeutic areas and guidance on the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of particular treatments. Guidance by NICE influences the extent to which supply of the product is financed within the National Health Service. Under public and industry pressure, NICE adopted a fast-track appraisal system for life-saving drugs that could lead to faster adoption of innovative drugs by the National Health Service. Spain The Spanish health care system has traditionally offered its beneficiaries favorable reimbursement terms for prescription drugs. Nevertheless drugs prices are generally lower than in other major markets. Companies must negotiate the price of a reimbursable drug with the Central Government. In addition the recent decentralization of health care has a powerful influence on the evolution of the market, as regional governments have sought greater control over the pricing and reimbursement. The Spanish health ministry has announced a large number of measures (included in the “Strategic Pharmacy Policy Plan”) to reduce drug spending. The proposed 67 measures include a reduction in drug prices of 4.2% in 2005 and another 2% in 2006, a modification of the reference pricing system to boost the generic market and the rewarding of true innovation through the introduction of a pricing and reimbursement scale that will set the prices of new drugs according to their degree of therapeutic superiority over established treatments. On the other hand the government has decided not to renew the three-year old stability pact with the pharmaceutical industry and to introduce a sales tax. 55 Table of Contents Patents, Intellectual Property and Other Rights Patents We currently own over 50,000 patents, patent applications and patent licenses worldwide. These patents cover: • active ingredients; • pharmaceutical formulations; • product manufacturing processes; • intermediate chemical compounds used in manufacturing; • therapeutic indications; • delivery systems; and • enabling technologies, such as assays Patent protection for individual products typically extends for 20 years from the patent filing date in countries where we seek patent protection. A substantial part of the 20 year life span of a patent on a new chemical entity has generally passed before the related product obtains marketing approval, resulting in an effective period of patent protection which is significantly shorter for an approved product’s active ingredient. In some cases, this period of effective protection may be further extended, in particular in Europe, the United States and Japan, where procedures exist to compensate significant regulatory delay. The product may benefit from the protection of other patents, including patents obtained after the product’s initial marketing approval. The protection a patent affords the related product depends upon the type of patent and its scope of coverage, and may also vary from country to country. In most industrial countries, patent protection exists for new active substances and formulations, as well as for new indications and production processes. We monitor our competitors and vigorously challenge patent and trademark infringements. The expiration or loss of a product patent may result in significant competition from generic products against the covered product and, particularly in the United States, can result in a dramatic reduction in sales of the pioneering product. In some cases, it is possible to continue to obtain commercial benefits from product manufacturing trade secrets, patents on processes and intermediates for the economical manufacture of the active ingredients, and patents for special formulations of the product or for delivery mechanisms. Certain categories of products, such as traditional vaccines and insulins, have been historically relatively less reliant on patent protection and may in many cases have no patent coverage, although it is increasingly frequent for novel vaccines and insulins to be patent protected. Data Exclusivity and Data Protection In some countries, including Europe and the United States, many of our products may also benefit from a five-to-10-year data exclusivity period, during which a generic competitor may not rely upon our clinical trial and safety data in its drug application. For example, in the United States, a generic competitor may generally not file an ANDA until the expiration of the five-year market exclusivity period that applies to the original product following its initial market authorization. In some cases, it is possible to extend the U.S. data exclusivity for an additional period of six months. This exclusivity period operates independently of patent protection and may protect the product from generic competition even if the basic patent for the product has expired. Product Overview Plavix® benefits from three U.S. patents, one expiring in 2011 and two expiring in 2019, and national patents issued from two European patents, expiring in 2013 and 2019, respectively. Aprovel® is protected in the United States until 2011 and in Europe until 2012. Taxotere®’s active ingredient is protected in the United States and Europe until 2010, and the product benefits from additional patent coverage ranging through 2015. Lantus®’s patent protection runs to 2014 in Europe and the United States, and in the United States benefits from a 56 Table of Contents six-month pediatric extension through February 2015. For Lovenox® our principal U.S. patent expires in 2012, but in June 2005 was declared unenforceable in a U.S. District Court decision which we are in the process of appealing. Lovenox® continues to benefit from patent protection in a number of significant markets outside the United States under patents expiring in or about 2012, depending on the country. Ambien® began to lose its patent protection in many markets in 2002. Its main remaining patents (United States and Japan) will expire in 2006. However, U.S. patent protection covering the formulation of Ambien CR™, which was launched in the United States in 2005, extends to 2019. For several of our top fifteen products in terms of 2005 sales — Allegra®, Amaryl®, Depakine®, Nasacort®, Tritace® and Xatral® — our patent covering the active ingredient has expired in most or all of our major markets, but the products continue to benefit from patent protection on a particular formulation of the drug, on medical indications and/or on a manufacturing process in numerous countries. Three of our top fifteen products, Eloxatine®, Copaxone® and Actonel®, are protected by patents owned by third-parties and marketed by us under licensing agreements. We do not own the Eloxatine® patents but license them from Debiopharm for marketing. The patent covering the active ingredient has expired, but other patents remain in force in our principal markets. Copaxone® is co-promoted by sanofi-aventis and Teva, and its basic patents expire in 2014. We co-market Actonel® with Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals, which holds the NDA for this product in the United States. The U.S. patent on the active ingredient expires in December 2013 and the U.S. formulation patents expire in 2018. In the United States, the FDA has invited us by written request to provide additional pediatric data on several of our top fifteen products (Lovenox®, Eloxatine®, Plavix® and Ambien®). Under the Hatch-Waxmann Act, timely provision of data meeting the FDA’s requirements may result in the FDA treating the product as if its data exclusivity and patent life had been extended 6 months, to the extent they have not already expired (so-called “pediatric exclusivity”). Japanese and European regulations do not currently offer the possibility of similar extensions in exchange for pediatric study results. One of the main limitations on our operations in some countries outside the United States and Europe is the lack of effective intellectual property protection for our products. Under international agreements in recent years, global protection of intellectual property rights is improving. The TRIPS Agreement (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights), which forms part of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, has required developing countries to amend their intellectual property laws to provide patent protection for pharmaceutical products since January 1, 2005 although it provides a limited number of developing countries an extension to 2010. While the situation has gradually improved, the lack of protection for intellectual property rights poses difficulties in certain countries. Additionally, in recent years a number of countries faced with health crises have waived or threatened to waive intellectual property protection for specific products. In the United States, companies have filed Abbreviated New Drug Applications, or ANDAs, challenging patents related to a number of our products. An ANDA is an application by a drug manufacturer to receive authority to market a generic version of another company’s approved product, by demonstrating that purportedly generic version has the same properties as the original approved product. An ANDA relies on the safety and other technical data of the original approved product, and does not generally require the generic manufacturer to conduct clinical trials, presenting a significant benefit in terms of time and cost. As a result of data exclusivity, the ANDA may generally be filed only 5 years following FDA approval of the initial U.S. marketing authorization of the original product. This period is reduced to 4 years for products protected by a patent listed in the FDA’s list of Approved Drug Products with Therapeutic Equivalence Evaluations, also known as the “Orange Book”, and owned by or licensed to the manufacturer of the original version. However, in such a case if the patent holder or licensee brings suit within the statutory window, then the FDA is barred from granting a final approval to an ANDA during the 30 months following the patent challenge (this bar being referred to in our industry as a “30 month stay”), unless, before the end of the 30 months, a court decision or settlement has determined either that the ANDA does not infringe the listed patent or that the listed patent is invalid and/or unenforceable. FDA approval of an ANDA after this 30 month period does not resolve outstanding patent disputes, but it does remove the regulatory impediments to a product launch by a generic manufacturer willing to take the risk of later being ordered to pay damages to the patent holder. Procedures comparable to the ANDA exist in other major markets. In Canada, an Abbreviated New Drug Submission may be filed with respect to a 57 Table of Contents generic version of an existing drug only after data exclusivity has expired, and a stay on regulatory approval of a generic for up to 24 months may be obtained if a listed patent is asserted. In the European Union, a generic drug manufacturer may reference the data of the regulatory file for the original approved product after data exclusivity has expired. However, there is no patent listing system in Europe comparable to the Orange Book, which would allow the patent holder to bar the competent authorities from granting the marketing approval by bringing patent infringement litigation prior to approval. Nevertheless, in most of these jurisdictions once the product is launched and in some jurisdictions already before (once launch is imminent), the patentee can seek an injunction against this marketing if its patents are infringed. See “Item 8. Financial Information — Consolidated Statements and Other Information — Information on Legal or Arbitral Proceedings” and Note D.22(b) to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. The accelerated ANDA-type procedures are potentially applicable to most, but not all, of the products we manufacture. See “— Regulation” above. We intend to defend our patent rights vigorously in these cases. Trademarks Our products are sold around the world under brand-name trademarks that we consider to be of material importance in the aggregate. It is our policy to register our trademarks worldwide, and to monitor the trademarks in our portfolio and defend them worldwide. The degree of trademark protection varies country by country, as each state implements its own laws applicable to trademarks used in its territory. In most countries, trademark rights may only be obtained by registration. In some countries, trademark protection is primarily based on use. Registrations are generally granted for a fixed term (in most cases ten years) and are renewable indefinitely, but in some instances may be subject to the continued use of the trademark. When trademark protection is based on use, it covers the products and services for which the trademark is used. When trademark protection is based on registration, it covers only the products and services designated in the registration. Additionally, in certain cases, we may enter into a coexistence agreement with a third-party that owns potentially conflicting rights in order to better protect and defend our trademarks. Health, Safety and Environment The manufacturing and research operations of sanofi-aventis are subject to increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations are complex and rapidly changing, and as always, sanofi-aventis has and will continue to maintain the necessary spending levels to comply with them. This investment, aimed at respecting health, safety and the environment, varies from year to year and totaled approximately €92 million in 2005. The applicable environmental laws and regulations may require sanofi-aventis to eradicate or reduce the effects of chemical substance usage and release at its various sites. The sites in question may belong to the company, be currently operational, or they may have been owned or operational in the past. Under some of these laws and regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of a property may be held liable for the costs of removal or remediation of hazardous substances on, under or in its property, or transported from its property to third party sites, without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused the presence of the contaminants. Sanofi-aventis may also be liable regardless of whether the practices that resulted in the contamination were legal at the time they occurred. Moreover, as for a number of companies involved in the pharmaceutical, chemical and agrochemical industries, soil and groundwater contamination has occurred at some company sites in the past, and may still occur or be discovered at others. Such sites are mainly located in the United States, Germany, France, Brazil and United Kingdom. As part of a program of environmental audits conducted over the last few years, detailed assessments of the risk of soil and subsoil contamination have been carried out at current and former company sites. In cooperation with national and local authorities, the Group is currently assessing the rehabilitation work required and this work has begun on several sites. Among them, rehabilitation work over several years has been completed or is in progress in Rochester, Portland and Cincinnati in the United States, Frankfurt and Hoechst in Germany, and Beaucaire, Limay, Rousset in France and on a number of sites divested to third parties and covered by contractual environmental guarantees granted by sanofi-aventis. Remediation works at the Massy and 58 Table of Contents Valernes sites were completed in 2005. Sanofi-aventis may also have potential liability for investigation and cleanup at several other sites. Reserves have been established for the sites already identified as well as to cover contractual guarantees for environmental liabilities for sites that have been divested. Potential environmental contingencies arising from certain business divestitures are described in Note D.22(e) to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. In 2005, sanofi-aventis spent more than €45 million on rehabilitating sites previously contaminated by ground pollution. As of December 2005, the most in-depth review possible was carried out of the legacy of environmental pollution. In light of data collected during this review, the Group adjusted the reserves to approximately €529 million. Because of the growing cost of environmental regulations governing site remediation the Group’s provisions for remediation obligations may not be adequate because of the multiple factors involved: the complexity of operational or previously operational sites, the nature of claims received, the rehabilitation techniques considered, the planned timetable for rehabilitation, and the outcome of discussions with national Regulatory Authorities or other potentially responsible parties, as in the case of multiparty sites. Because some of the sanofi-aventis manufacturing sites have a long history of industrial operations, and given Aventis’s legacy of environmental remediation obligations inherited from its former chemical and agrochemical businesses, it is impossible to evaluate precisely what impact these laws and regulations will have in the future. Given the long industrial history of some of our sites and the legacy obligations of Aventis arising from its past involvement in the chemicals and agrochemical industries, it is impossible to quantify the future impact of these laws and regulations with precision. To our knowledge, the Group is not currently subject to liabilities for non-compliance with current health, safety and environmental laws and regulations that would significantly jeopardize its activities, financial situation or operating income. We also believe that we are in substantial compliance with current health, safety and environmental laws and regulations and that all the environmental permits required to operate our facilities have been obtained. Regular HSE audits are carried out by the Group in order to detect possible instances of non-compliance with regulations and to initiate corrective measures. Thirty-two audits were carried out in 2005. Sanofi-aventis is committed to providing safe and environmentally sound work places which respect the health and environment of employees and the surrounding communities. Sanofi-aventis has implemented a worldwide policy on health, safety and the environment to promote the health and well-being of its employees and respect for the environment. We consider this policy to be an integral part of our commitment to social responsibility. In order to implement this policy, 76 rules have been drawn up in the key fields of HSE management, Good HSE Practices, safety in the workplace, process safety, industrial hygiene, health in the workplace and protection of the environment. Health From the development of compounds to the commercial launch of new drugs, sanofi-aventis research scientists continuously assess the effect of products on people’s health. This expertise is made available to employees through two committees responsible for chemical and biological risk assessment. The COVALIS committee classifies all chemical and pharmaceutical products handled within the Group and establishes workplace exposure limits for each of them. The TRIBIO Committee is responsible for classifying all biological agents according to their degree of pathogenicity, and establishes rules for their containment and the preventive measures to be respected throughout the Company. Industrial hygiene practices implemented at our sites are based on the internal standards defined by these two committees. These practices consist essentially of measures regarding containment, and group and individual protection against exposure in all work positions where chemical substances or biological agents are handled. 59 Table of Contents Safety Sanofi-aventis has set up a rigorous policy to identify and evaluate risks and to develop preventive measures, and methods for checking their efficacy. Additionally, sanofi-aventis invests in training that is designed to instill in all employees a sense of concern for safety, regardless of their professional activity. These policies are implemented on a worldwide scale to ensure the safety of all employees and to protect their health. Each project, whether in research, development or manufacturing, is subject to evaluation procedures, incorporating the chemical substance and process data communicated by the aforementioned COVALIS and TRIBIO committees. The preventive measures are designed primarily to reduce the number and seriousness of work accidents involving our permanent and temporary employees as well as sub-contractors. The French chemical manufacturing sites in Aramon, Neuville-sur-Saône, Saint-Aubin-les-Elbeuf, Sisteron, Vertolaye and Vitry, as well as the plants located in the Hoechst Industry Park in Frankfurt, Germany, and the chemical production site in Budapest, Hungary, are listed Seveso II in accordance with the relevant European directive. In accordance with the French law on technological risk prevention, the French sites are also subject to heightened security inspections in light of the toxic or flammable materials stored on the sites and used in the operating processes. Risk assessments of processes and their installations are drawn up according to standards and internal guidelines incorporating the best state-of-the-art benchmarks for the industry. These assessments are used to fulfill regulatory requirements and are regularly updated. Particular attention is paid to any risk-generating changes: process or installation changes, as well as changes in production scale and transfers between industrial or research units. The laboratories which specialize in process safety testing, which are an integral part of chemical development activities, apply methods to obtain the physico-chemical parameters of manufactured chemical substances (intermediates and drug substances) and apply models to measure the effect of potentially leachable substances in the event of a major accident. All these data guarantee the relevance of the risk assessments. We believe that the safety management systems implemented at each site, the hazard studies carried out and the risk management methods implemented, as well as the insurance policies covering any third-party material damages, are consistent with the legal requirements. Environment The main objectives of the environmental policy of sanofi-aventis are to implement clean manufacturing techniques, minimize the use of natural resources and reduce the environmental impact of its activities. In order to optimize and improve our environmental performance, sanofi-aventis is committed to progressively obtaining ISO 14001 certification for all of its sites. Twenty-four manufacturing sites and three R&D sites are currently certified. This commitment is part of a strategy of continuous improvement practiced at all Group sites through the annual implementation of health, safety and environment progress plans. We believe that this strategy clearly expresses the commitment of both management and individuals to health, safety and the environment. As of January 1, 2005, eleven of the Group’s European sites were included in the European CO2 emission trading system, which is aimed at helping to reach the targets set by the Kyoto protocol. The recent efforts of the Group in terms of environmental protection have mainly targeted reductions in energy consumption, improvements in the performance of water treatment installations, volatile organic compound emissions, raw material savings and recycling, and reductions in waste materials or increases in the percentage being recycled. Despite an increased production volume, considerable progress has been made in each of these areas in terms of consumption per unit of production. In order to assess the environmental impact of the drug substances found in products marketed by sanofi-aventis, a committee of experts called ECOVAL has been set up to develop an environmental risk assessment methodology, and to run programs to collect the necessary data for such assessments. 60 Table of Contents Insurance and Risk Coverage We have four main insurance programs. This insurance is provided by conventional insurance and reinsurance companies, a mutual insurance company formed by various pharmaceutical Groups, and CARRAIG, our group’s captive insurance company. The Property & Business Interruption insurance program covers all of the group’s sites. This program also includes efforts to improve safety and security. The Inventory & Transportation program protects all of our goods, regardless of type, when shipped domestically or internationally by any means of transport, and also covers our inventories wherever they may be. Our General Liability & Product Liability program was renewed, despite the increasing reluctance of insurers and reinsurers to cover the product risk of large pharmaceutical groups. Because of these market conditions we had to reduce our coverage under this program by excluding certain products and accepting various restrictions, and also by increasing our self-insurance. The fourth insurance program, the Directors & Officers Liability program, protects all of the Group’s legal entities and their directors and officers. These insurance programs are backed by leading insurance and reinsurance groups and protect every aspect of the Group’s operations. The amounts of coverage have been adjusted in accordance with the Group’s risk profile and insurance market conditions. This centralization of insurance coverage not only reduces costs but also gives local entities access to world-class coverage. Animal Health: Merial Merial, a 50-50 joint venture with Merck & Co. Inc., is one of the world’s leading animal healthcare companies dedicated to the research, development, manufacture and delivery of innovative pharmaceuticals and vaccines used by veterinarians, farmers and pet owners. The animal healthcare product range comprises four major segments: parasiticides, products for the treatment of chronic illnesses, anti-infectious drugs, and other products such as anti-inflammatory agents, anti-ulcerous agents and vaccines. The company’s top-selling products include Frontline®, a topical anti-parasitic flea and tick brand for dogs and cats, as well as Ivomec®, a parasiticide for the control of internal and external parasites in livestock, Heartgard®, a parasiticide for control of heartworm in companion animals, and Eprinex®, a parasiticide for use in cattle. Merial’s major markets are the United States, France, Italy, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Australia, Japan, Germany, Spain and Canada. Merial has 16 production sites, with major sites located in France, the United States, Brazil and China. The major R&D sites are located in France and in the United States. Merial has approximately 5,000 employees worldwide. Other Rhodia As of December 31, 2005, sanofi-aventis held a 8.2% equity stake in the specialty chemicals group Rhodia, which was formerly a unit of Rhône-Poulenc. Rhodia has been listed on the Euronext Paris as well as the NYSE since 1998. Although sanofi-aventis did not dispose of shares of Rhodia in 2005, its percentage interest in Rhodia has decreased significantly from 15.3% as of December 31, 2004. This percentage dilution was caused by a substantial capital increase carried out by Rhodia in 2005 in which sanofi-aventis chose not to subscribe additional shares. Sanofi-aventis’ shareholding corresponds to approximately 2.8% of Rhodia’s voting rights, following a decision by Rhodia, and contested by sanofi-aventis, to deny sanofi-aventis the right to vote a part of the Rhodia shares acquired through the merger with Aventis. Rhodia’s decision was based on its interpretation of French rules concerning declarations of ownership of listed companies, and is being challenged by sanofi-aventis before the Commercial Court of Paris. 61 Table of Contents As a condition for the U.S. and EU antitrust approvals of the business combination that created Aventis in 1999, a deadline of April 2004 had been set for Aventis to reduce its 25.2% stake in Rhodia to below 5%. In May 2003, Aventis sold 9.9% of Rhodia’s share capital to Credit Lyonnais, reducing its stake to 15.3% (27.5 million shares). Subsequent to this sale, Aventis considered Rhodia a marketable investment and no longer accounted for it using the equity method. On January 30, 2004, the European Commission agreed to replace a commitment obliging Aventis to sell its stake in Rhodia with a commitment to divest its 49% stake in Wacker Chemie. This divestment took place on August 8, 2005. In April 2005, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission waived its separate deadline for disposal of the Group’s stake in Rhodia. Wacker-Chemie As a result of an agreement with the Wacker family in August 2005, the Group’s entire remaining interest in Wacker-Chemie GmbH has been sold to a company affiliated with the Wacker family, which now controls 100% of Wacker-Chemie GmbH. Prior to this agreement, sanofi-aventis held an indirect interest of 49% in Wacker Chemie through the sanofi-aventis subsidary Hoechst AG. Yves Rocher We own a 39% equity interest in Financière des Laboratoires de Cosmétologie Yves Rocher. C. Organizational Structure Sanofi-aventis is the holding company of a consolidated group of subsidiaries. The table below sets forth our significant subsidiaries and affiliates as of December 31, 2005. For a complete list of our main consolidated subsidiaries, see Note E to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report at Item 18. Significant Subsidiary or Affiliate Country OwnershipInterest Aventis Inc. United States 100 % Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. United States 100 % Aventis Pharma SA France 100 % Hoechst GmbH Germany 100 % Sanofi-aventis Amerique du Nord S.N.C. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis Deutschland Gmbh Germany 100 % Sanofi-aventis Europe S.A.S. France 100 % Sanofi-Pasteur Inc United States 100 % Sanofi-Synthélabo Inc. United States 100 % Sanofi-aventis and its subsidiaries form a Group, organized around two business segments: pharmaceutical products and human vaccines. The sanofi-aventis holding company directly holds the shares of a significant portion of its subsidiaries as well as part of the Group’s intellectual property rights. Within the Group, the holding company oversees research and development activities, by defining strategic priorities, coordinating work, and in many cases taking out the industrial property under its own name and at its own expense. In order to fulfill this role, sanofi-aventis subcontracts research and development to its specialized subsidiaries, in many cases licensing its patents, manufacturing know-how and trademarks to Group subsidiaries. In these cases, the licensee subsidiaries manufacture and distribute the Group’s products, either directly or via local distribution entities. In several countries, the sanofi-aventis Group carries out part of its business operations through ventures with local partners. In addition, the Group has signed worldwide accords by which two of its products (Plavix® and Aprovel®) are marketed through an alliance with BMS (see “— Alliances,” above). For most Group subsidiaries, sanofi-aventis provides financing and centrally manages their cash surpluses. Under the alliance arrangement with BMS, cash surpluses and cash needs arising within alliance entities give rise to symmetric monthly transfers between the two Groups. The Company also operates a centralized foreign exchange risk management system, which enters into positions to manage the operational risks of its main subsidiaries. 62 Table of Contents D. Property, Plant and Equipment Our worldwide headquarters and principal executive offices are located in Paris, France. Our U.S. headquarters are located in Bridgewater, New Jersey. We operate our business through a number of offices, research facilities and production sites throughout the world. We present our principal sites below by use. All areas are presented in thousands of square meters and are non-audited. For our pharmaceutical activity, we own and lease space around the world for sales and marketing, administrative support and customer service functions. Our Scientific and Medical Affairs are organized across 12 sites located in France and 13 sites located in the rest of Europe, North America and Japan. These sites are either owned or leased. The list of our principal sites is as follows: Countries Sites Thousands of m2 France Antony * Site de la Croix de Berny N/A Bagneux 21.7 Chilly-Mazarin 66.0 Labège 13.4 Evry 0.9 Massy 8.7 Montpellier 55.7 Porcheville 25.9 Rueil-Malmaison 11.7 Strasbourg 7.3 Toulouse 33.7 Vitry/Alfortville 94.9 Germany Frankfurt * 84.2 Kastengrund 17.9 United Kingdom Alnwick 12.6 Hungary Ujpest * in industrial site Italy Milano 12.1 Spain Alcobendas * in industrial site Riells * in industrial site United States Bridgewater, NJ 110.8 Cambridge, MA 3.2 Malvern, PA 30.1 Tucson, AZ 1.2 Japan Kawagoe * 11.1 Tokyo * 5.3 * These sites are located within some of our office or industrial sites 63 Table of Contents We have a total of 75 sites around the world under the responsibility of our Industrial Affairs division in which we carry out chemical manufacturing, pharmaceutical manufacturing or both. Our principal manufacturing sites are listed below. Location Appx. Size(thousands of m2) Principal Use France Ambarès (P) 73.1 Plavix®, Aprovel®, Depakine® Amilly (P) 26.7 Other pharmaceutical products Aramon (C) 52.5 irbesartan Compiègne (P) 56.0 Other pharmaceutical products Elbeuf (C) 52.9 Other active ingredients Le Trait (P) 28.6 Lovenox® Maisons-Alfort (P) 30.6 Lovenox® Neuville sur Saône (C) 73.4 Other active ingredients Quetigny (P) 31.4. Stilnox®, Plavix® Sisteron (C) 58.0 clopidogrel, other active ingredients Tours (P) 25.8 Stilnox®, Aprovel®, Xatral® Vertolaye (C) 34.8 Other active ingredients Vitry (C) 88.4 docetaxel, other active ingredients Germany Cologne (P) 44.0 Other pharmaceutical products Frankfurt-Biotechnology (C) Frankfurt-Chemistry (C) Frankfurt (P) 180.9 Bioengineered insulins fexofenadine, glimepiride, ramipril, telithromycin, Lantus®, Tritace® Italy Agnani (P) 40.5 Other pharmaceutical products Brindisi (C) 25.8 Other active ingredients Garessio (C) 56.5 Other active ingredients Origgio (P) 39.5 Other pharmaceutical products Scoppito (P) 28.5 Tritace®, Amaryl® United Kingdom Dagenham (P) 89.2 Taxotere® Fawdon (P) 29.0 Plavix®, Aprovel® Holmes Chapel (P) 44.4 Nasacort®, other pharmaceutical products Hungary Ujpest (C, P) 101.0 irbesartan United States Kansas City (P) 24.9 Allegra®, Amaryl® Japan Kawagoe (P) 28.1 Products for local market Singapore Jurong (C) 14.0 enoxaparin sodium India Ankleshwar (C, P) 15.0 Products for local market Brazil Guadalupe (P) 33.4 Products for local market Suzano (P) 27.7 Products for local market Mexico Cuautitlan (P) 32.7 Products for local market Ocoyoacac (P) 32.8 Products for local market Marocco Casablanca (P) 48.0 Products for local market Legend: (P) Pharmaceutical Manufacturing, (C) Chemical Manufacturing 64 Table of Contents For our distribution, we either operate from some of our industrial or R&D sites or from independent sites that we either own or lease. Our major distribution centers located on independent sites are as follows: Country Appx. Size(thousands of m2) Location France 16.5 Amilly 21.6 Croissy Beaubourg 25.6 Marly la Ville 15.5 Saint Loubès Germany 35.3 Frankfurt Hungary 12.1 Budapest United Kingdom 15.3 Sheffield United States 30.1 Kansas City Japan 9.5 Kawagoe The headquarters of our human vaccines subsidiary sanofi pasteur are located in Lyon, France. Sanofi pasteur has a industrial sites located in North America and Europe, as well as in emerging markets: China, Thailand and Argentina. The location and size of our main manufacturing facilities for human vaccines are as follows: Location Appx. Size(thousands of m2) Principal use Marcy l’Etoile, France 155.8 R&D and bulk production of most of the vaccine active ingredients supplied by sanofi pasteur, also a site for secondary formulation, filling and packaging (FFP), industrialization of new products Val de Reuil, France 44.9 Largest site for FFP, some major active ingredient production (influenza, oral polio vaccine, rabies, yellow fever), worldwide distribution Swiftwater, Pennsylvania, U.S. 87.4 R&D, production of influenza, meningitis and pediatric combination vaccines, FFP, industrialization of new products Toronto, Canada 73.7 R&D, production of pediatric combination vaccines, industrialization of new products We both own and lease our facilities. We have entered into material leasing agreements with respect to real estate properties located in France in Paris, Amilly, Gentilly, Chilly-Mazarin and Bagneux. Under our leases, our real estate properties include buildings constructed pursuant to the operating lease agreements, under which we pay periodic rent and have a purchase option exercisable at expiration. We are responsible for all repairs, taxes and other costs during the term of the lease. These leases are classified as debt in our consolidated balance sheet. The overall net book value of our property, plant and equipment was €6,184 million as of December 31, 2005. In 2005, we spent €1,018 million primarily to increase capacity and improve productivity at our various manufacturing and R&D sites. We believe that our production plants and research facilities are in full compliance, well maintained and generally adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. However, we conduct on a regular basis reviews of our production plants with regard to environment, health and safety issues, quality compliance and capacity utilization. Based on this review, we record, if necessary, impairment losses for the modernization, divestment or closing of specific production plants. We are not aware of any environmental issues that we believe could have a significant effect on the utilization of our industrial assets. For more information on our Property, Plant and Equipment, see Note D.3 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report. The Group’s principal capital expenditures underway for 2006 include a new vaccine production facility in the United States and a vaccine formulation and filling facility in France (See “— Human Vaccines Activity — Main Areas — Influenza,” above). We anticipate that the Group’s internally generated cash and the unused portion of existing credit facilities will be sufficient to finance these investments. 65 Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report at Item 18. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has adopted an accommodation permitting eligible foreign private issuers for their first year of reporting under IFRS to file two years rather than three years of statements of income, changes in shareholders’ equity and cash flows prepared in accordance with IFRS. The financial year 2005 is sanofi-aventis’ first year of reporting under IFRS as published by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), and this annual report on Form 20-F has been prepared in reliance on the SEC accommodation. As a result, the operating and financial review that follows covers the financial year 2005 and the comparable financial year 2004. IFRS differ in certain significant respects from U.S. GAAP. Note G to our consolidated financial statements provides a description of the principal differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP for 2004 and 2005, as they relate to our company, and reconciles our shareholders’ equity and net income to U.S. GAAP as of and for each of the years ended, December 31, 2004 and 2005. Unless otherwise indicated, the following discussion relates to our IFRS financial information. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. See “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this document. Introduction The period from 2004 to 2005 has been one of substantial growth for our Company, including external growth resulting from our acquisition of Aventis in August 2004. As a result of the acquisition and growth in our business, our consolidated net sales almost doubled in 2005, increasing from €14,871 million in 2004 to €27,311 million in 2005. Aventis was only included in our scope of consolidation beginning on August 20, 2004. Our pro forma net sales in 2004, determined in accordance with the principles described below, amounted to €25,199 million in 2004 on a reported basis and to €24,984 million on a comparable basis (adjusting for exchange rate and scope of consolidation differences as described below in “— Presentation of Net Sales”). We also recorded substantial growth in sales of our principal products in 2005. Sales of our top 15 products in our pharmaceuticals activity increased by 13.6% (14.0% on a comparable basis) in 2005 over pro forma 2004. Our human vaccines activity as a whole has experienced significant growth, rising 27.0% (26.9% on a comparable basis) in 2005 over the prior year pro forma figure. Our operating profit and net income were affected in 2005 and 2004 by the accounting treatment of the Aventis acquisition, which led to our recording the inventory of Aventis at fair value rather than historical cost, leaving us with significantly reduced margins when we sold its inventory. Because of the effect of this item (which amounted to €342 million in after tax charges in 2004 and €248 million in 2005) as well as the amortization and impairment of acquired intangible assets (which amounted to €795 million in after tax charges in 2004 and to €3,156 million in after tax charges in 2005) and restructuring charges arising from the acquisition, we recorded an operating profit of €2,426 million and a net profit of €1,986 million in 2004, and an operating profit of €2,888 million and a net profit of €2,258 million in 2005. Without the effect of these charges, our adjusted net income amounted to €3,527 million in 2004 and €6,335 million in 2005. Adjusted net income is an unaudited non-GAAP financial measure which our management uses to monitor our operational performance, and which is defined at “— Sources of Revenues and Expenses — Adjusted Net Income,” below. Our operations generate significant cash flow. We recorded €4,049 million of net cash flow from operating activities in 2004 (including the net cash flow from the operating activities of Aventis beginning August 20, 2004) and €6,398 million in 2005. Prior to the acquisition, we typically maintained cash and cash equivalents in amounts that exceeded our debt. We incurred significant debt to finance the acquisition. We have reimbursed a 66 Table of Contents portion of this debt, and refinanced the remainder. As of December 31, 2005, our consolidated net debt (meaning the sum of short-term debt and long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments) amounted to €9.9 billion. Impact of Our Acquisition of Aventis in 2004 Our results of operations and financial condition for the year ended December 31, 2004 and for the year ended December 31, 2005 have been significantly affected by our August 2004 acquisition of Aventis and certain subsequent transactions (including the merger of Aventis with and into our Company in December 2004). The principal impacts of these transactions on our 2004 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and their comparability are the following: • The results of operations of Aventis for the period between August 20, 2004 and December 31, 2004 have been included in our consolidated statement of income and consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2004. • The allocation of a portion of the purchase price to inventory at fair value resulted in our recording a sharply reduced gross margin when we sold the inventory (€539 million or €342 million after tax in 2004 and €394 million or €248 million after tax in 2005). • In connection with the acquisition, our accounting for Aventis intangible assets at fair value caused us to incur significant amortization and impairment charges (€795 million after tax and minority interests in 2004 and €3,156 million after tax and minority interests in 2005). • We divested certain assets in connection with the acquisition, including two products, Fraxiparine® and Arixtra®, that we sold in order to respond to potential demands from competition authorities in relation to the acquisition. Aventis also divested certain assets, notably its product Campto®. • We issued 678.6 million new shares in the offers and subsequent merger, and incurred significant indebtedness in connection with the acquisition (see “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Consolidated Balance Sheet and Debt — Financing of the Aventis Acquisition in 2004, Refinancing of the Acquisition Debt in 2005,” below). We have prepared an unaudited pro forma statement of income for 2004 that presents our results of operations as if the acquisition had taken place on January 1, 2004. For a detailed description of the principles used to establish the 2004 pro forma financial statements, see Note D.1.3 to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. The unaudited 2004 pro forma financial data are presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of the operating results or financial condition of the combined entities that would have been achieved had the transactions been consummated on the dates used as the basis for the preparation of the pro forma financial data. They are not necessarily indicative of the future results or financial condition of sanofi-aventis. Nonetheless, because the unaudited 2004 pro forma income statements provide information that we believe is useful in analyzing trends in our business, we have discussed our 2004 pro forma results of operations, as well as our historical results of operations, in the comparisons of the years 2004 and 2005 below. 2005 is presented as reported. In our discussion below (see “— Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared with Pro Forma Year Ended December 31, 2004 (Unaudited)”), we identify the 2005 line items affected by our accounting for Aventis inventory at fair value rather than at cost and specify the magnitude of this effect. Because we compare 2005 reported results to 2004 pro forma results which do not use fair value accounting for this inventory, we believe it is useful for investors to be aware of this accounting effect. For a detailed description of the effect of accounting for Aventis inventory at fair value, see Note D.1.3 to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. 67 Table of Contents The following table presents our net sales, operating income - current, operating income and net income in 2004 and 2005, on a consolidated basis. In addition, 2004 data are presented on a pro forma basis: Consolidated Year ended December 31, Pro Forma (unaudited)Year ended December 31, In millions of euro 2004 2005(1) 2004 Net Sales 14,871 27,311 25,199 Operating Income - current 2,900 4,753 3,786 Operating Income 2,426 2,888 3,199 Net Income 1,986 2,258 2,316 (1) The impacts of the workdown of inventories remeasured at fair value at the time of the acquisition on the 2005 consolidated income statement are as follows: - Operating income – current: - €394 million - Operating income: - €394 million - Net income: - €270 million As discussed above, the accounting treatment of the acquisition had a significant impact on our consolidated income statement in 2004 and 2005. In addition to the impact of the allocation of a portion of the purchase price to inventory at fair value, the acquisition gave rise to significant amortization charges for acquired intangible assets. Similar effects were recorded in respect of companies accounted for by the equity method. In addition, we recorded significant restructuring charges as a result of the acquisition. In order to isolate the impact of these items, we use as an evaluation tool a non-GAAP financial measure that we refer to as “Adjusted Net Income.” For a further discussion and definition of “Adjusted Net Income,” see “— Sources of Revenues and Expenses — Adjusted Net Income,” below. We have calculated our adjusted consolidated net income for 2004 and 2005. We have also calculated adjusted pro forma net income for 2004 based on the same principles but starting with our unaudited pro forma net income. The following table shows our adjusted consolidated net income for 2004 and 2005 and our adjusted pro forma net income for 2004, in each case including a reconciliation to consolidated net income or pro forma net income, as the case may be. Year ended December 31, In millions of euro, except per-share data 2004 2005 2004 (consolidated) (pro forma, unaudited) Net Income 1,986 2,258 2,316 Less: material accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of Aventis: - elimination of expense arising on the workdown of acquired inventories remeasured at fair value, net of tax 342 248 N/A - elimination of expenses arising on amortization and impairment of Aventis intangible assets, net of tax and minority interests 795 3,156 2,324 - elimination of expenses arising from the impact of the acquisition of Aventis on equity investees (workdown of acquired inventory, amortization and impairment of intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill) (2 ) 58 23 - elimination of impairment losses charged against the goodwill generated by the acquisition of Aventis — — — Elimination of acquisition-related integration and restructuring charges, net of tax 406 615 362 Adjusted net income 3,527 6,335 5,025 Adjusted earnings per share (in euro) 3.88 (1) 4.74 (1) 3.77 (2) (1) Based on 910.3 million shares for 2004 and 1,336.5 million shares for 2005, equal to the weighted average number of shares outstanding. (2) Based on 1,333.4 million shares (for 2004), equal to the weighted average number of shares outstanding in 2004, determined as if the acquisition had taken place on January 1, 2004. 68 Table of Contents Sources of Revenues and Expenses Revenue. Revenue arising from the sale of goods is presented in the income statement under “Net sales.” Net sales comprise revenue from sales of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, and active ingredients, net of sales returns, of customer incentives and discounts, and of certain sales-based payments paid or payable to the healthcare authorities. The discounts, incentives and rebates described above are recognized in the period in which the underlying sales are recognized as a reduction of sales revenue. The same applies to sales returns. See Note B.14 to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. We sell pharmaceutical products and human vaccines directly, through alliances, and through licensees throughout the world. When we sell products directly, we record sales revenues as part of our consolidated net sales. When we sell products through alliances, the revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements are based on the overall level of sales of the products and on the arrangements governing those alliances. For more information about our alliances, see “— Financial Presentation of Alliances,” below. When we sell products through licensees, we receive royalty income that we record in “Other revenues.” Cost of Sales. Our cost of sales consists primarily of the cost of purchasing active ingredients and raw materials, labor and other costs relating to our manufacturing activities, packaging materials, payments made under licensing agreements, and distribution costs. Our cost of sales also includes our royalties paid relating to license agreements for products. We have license agreements under which we distribute products that are patented by other companies and license agreements under which other companies distribute products that we have patented. When we pay royalties, we record them in cost of sales, and when we receive royalties, we record them in “Other revenues” as discussed above. Adjusted Net Income. We believe that investors’ understanding of our operational performance following the combination of Sanofi-Synthélabo and Aventis is enhanced by disclosing our “adjusted net income.” We define “adjusted net income,” an unaudited non-GAAP financial measure, as net income determined under IFRS, adjusted to exclude the material impacts of purchase accounting for the Aventis acquisition and certain acquisition-related integration and restructuring costs. We view adjusted net income as an operating performance measure and believe that the most directly comparable IFRS measure is net income. Adjusted net income excludes the effects of purchase-accounting treatment under IFRS related to our acquisition of Aventis. We believe that excluding these non-cash charges will enhance an investor’s understanding of our underlying economic performance after the combination with Aventis because we do not consider that the excluded charges reflect the combined entity’s ongoing operating performance. Rather, we consider that each of the excluded charges reflects the decision, in 2004, to acquire the businesses of Aventis. The purchase-accounting effects on net income primarily relate to: • the charges to cost of goods sold resulting from the workdown of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, net of tax; • the charges related to the impairment of the goodwill arising from the acquisition of Aventis; • the charges related to the amortization and impairment of Aventis definite-lived intangible assets, net of tax and minority interests. We believe (subject to the material limitations discussed below) that disclosing “adjusted net income” also enhances the comparability of our ongoing operating performance. The elimination of the non-recurring items, such as the increase in cost of sales arising from the workdown of inventories remeasured at fair value, improves comparability between one period and the next. Lastly, we believe that the elimination of charges related to the amortization of Aventis’ definite-lived intangible assets also enhances the comparability of our ongoing operating performance relative to our peers in the pharmaceutical industry that carry these intangible assets (principally patents and trademarks) at low book values either because they are the result of in-house research and development that has already been expensed in prior periods or because they were acquired through business combinations that were accounted as poolings-of-interest. 69 Table of Contents As a result of the acquisition, we have incurred significant integration and restructuring costs. We believe it is appropriate to exclude these costs from adjusted net income because these integration and restructuring costs are directly and only incurred in connection with the acquisition of Aventis. As of year-end 2005 the Company has incurred the greater part of the expected integration and restructuring costs related to the acquisition of Aventis and subsequent merger. Our management uses and intends to use adjusted net income to manage and to evaluate our performance and we believe it is appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure, as a supplement to our IFRS reporting, to assist investors with their analysis of the factors and trends affecting our business performance. We also report adjusted net income as a subtotal in reporting our segment information in accordance with SFAS 131 criteria. See Note D.35 to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 18 of this annual report. Our management also uses the measure as a component in setting incentive compensation targets, because it better measures the underlying operational performance of the business and excludes charges over which managers have no control. Our management also uses adjusted net income as the basis for determining dividend policy for the enlarged Group, by analyzing dividends paid as a ratio of non-GAAP adjusted net income, which management believes provides a consistent basis for comparison across periods. Accordingly, management believes that an investor’s understanding of the evolution of our dividend policy is enhanced by disclosing non-GAAP adjusted net income. We have also decided to report adjusted earnings per share (EPS). Adjusted earnings per share is a specific financial indicator, which we define as adjusted net income divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Our management also intends to give earnings guidance based on adjusted earnings per share. We remind investors, however, that non-GAAP adjusted net income should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net income reported in accordance with IFRS. In addition, we strongly encourage investors and potential investors not to rely on any single financial measure but to review our financial statements, including the notes thereto, and our other publicly filed reports, carefully and in their entirety. There are material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP adjusted net income as compared to the use of IFRS net income in evaluating our performance, as described below: • The results presented by non-GAAP adjusted net income cannot be achieved without incurring the following costs that the measure excludes: • Amortization of identifiable intangible assets acquired from Aventis. Although this amortization is a non-cash charge, it is important for investors to consider it because it represents an allocation in each reporting period of a portion of the purchase price that we paid for the identifiable intangible assets of Aventis (principally patents and trademarks). We paid an aggregate of €31,279 million for these intangible assets (which, in general, will be amortized over their useful lives, which represents an average amortization period of eight years). A large part of our revenues after the combination could not be generated without owning these assets. Also, a significant portion of the purchase price paid for these assets has been financed by debt obligations which will need to be repaid in cash in the future. Further, if we do not continuously replace revenue-generating intangible assets as they become unproductive (for example, through researching and developing new pharmaceutical products), we may not be able to maintain or grow our revenues. • Integration and restructuring costs. Non-GAAP adjusted net income does not reflect any integration and restructuring costs even though it reflects any synergies that arise from the merger of sanofi-aventis and Aventis. • The difference in treatment of similar charges may complicate the use of non-GAAP adjusted net income as a comparative measure: • Amortization of identifiable intangible assets. Non-GAAP adjusted net income reflects amortization charges related to intangible assets that we owned at the time that we acquired Aventis (and to intangible assets that we may acquire after that acquisition), even though non-GAAP adjusted net income will not reflect the amortization charges related to identifiable intangible assets acquired from Aventis. 70 Table of Contents We compensate for the above-described material limitations by using non-GAAP adjusted net income only to supplement our IFRS financial reporting (and any reconciliation of IFRS results to U.S. GAAP that we are required to make under the rules of the SEC) and by ensuring that our disclosures provide sufficient information for a full understanding of all adjustments included in non-GAAP adjusted net income. In addition, subject to applicable law, we may in the future decide to report additional non-GAAP financial measures which, in combination with non-GAAP adjusted net income, may compensate further for some of the material limitations described above. In determining the level of future dividend payments, and in analyzing dividend policy on the basis of non-GAAP adjusted net income, our management intends to take into account the fact that a significant portion (approximately €10.5 billion) of the purchase price we paid for Aventis (including the purchase price allocated to identifiable intangible assets and goodwill) has been financed with borrowed funds and that this borrowed money will have to be repaid in cash in the medium term. See “— Consolidated Balance Sheet and Debt,” below. Further, our management intends to take into account the fact that the adjustments reflected in non-GAAP adjusted net income have no effect on the underlying amount of cash available to pay dividends, and that although the adjustments relating to the elimination of the effect of the purchase accounting treatment of the Aventis acquisition represent non-cash charges, the adjustments relating to integration and restructuring costs represent significant cash charges in the periods immediately following the closing of the acquisition. This Item 5 contains discussion and analysis of adjusted net income on the basis of both consolidated and pro forma financial data. Because our non-GAAP adjusted net income is not a standardized measure, it may not be comparable with the non-GAAP financial measures of other companies having the same or a similar name. Presentation of Net Sales In the discussion below, we present our consolidated net sales for 2005, and both our consolidated net sales and pro forma net sales for 2004. We break down our net sales among various categories, such as by activity, product and geographical area. We refer to our consolidated and pro forma sales as “reported” sales. • Consolidated Net Sales. For 2004, our consolidated net sales include the net sales of Aventis and its subsidiaries from August 20, 2004. • Pro forma Net Sales. Pro forma net sales is an unaudited financial indicator comprising consolidated net sales as reported by sanofi-aventis, plus Aventis net sales over the period from January 1 to August 20 for the year ended December 31, 2004, excluding net sales of Arixtra®, Fraxiparine® and Campto® (divested at the request of the antitrust authorities, and eliminated from the start of the periods presented), and excluding the Aventis Behring business which was divested in March 2004. The derivation of our condensed pro forma financial results is set out at Note D.1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 18 of this annual report. In addition to reported sales, we also present and discuss two other unaudited non-GAAP indicators that we believe are useful measurement tools to explain changes in our reported net sales: • Comparable Sales. When we refer to the change in our net sales on a “comparable” basis, we mean that we exclude the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and changes in our group structure (due to acquisitions and divestitures of entities, rights to products and changes in the consolidation percentage for consolidated entities). For any two periods, we exclude the impact of exchange rates by recalculating net sales for the earlier period on the basis of exchange rates used in the later period. We exclude the impact of acquisitions by including sales for a portion of the prior period equal to the portion of the current period during which we owned the entity or product rights based on sales information we receive from the party from whom we make the acquisition. Similarly, we exclude sales in the relevant portion of the prior period when we have sold an entity or rights to a product. If there is a change in the consolidation percentage of a consolidated entity, the prior period is recalculated on the basis of the consolidation method used for the current period. A reconciliation of our reported net sales to our comparable net sales is provided at “— Reconciliation of 2004 Consolidated Net Sales to 2004 Pro Forma Net Sales,” below, 71 Table of Contents • Developed Sales. When we refer to “developed sales” of a product, we mean sales consolidated by sanofi-aventis, excluding sales of products to our alliance partners, but including sales not consolidated by sanofi-aventis and made through the alliances with BMS (as described under “— Financial Presentation of Alliances” below) on Plavix® (clopidogrel) and Aprovel® (irbesartan) and with Fujisawa on Stilnox® (zolpidem). Our alliance partners provide us with information about their sales in order to allow us to calculate developed sales. We believe that developed sales are a useful measurement tool because they demonstrate trends in the overall presence of our products in the market. Only pharmaceutical products originating from sanofi-aventis research and development are included in alliance partner sales for the purposes of calculating developed sales. A reconciliation of our developed sales to our consolidated net sales is provided at “— Developed Sales,” below. Financial Presentation of Alliances We have entered into a number of alliances for the development, co-promotion and/or co-marketing of our products. We believe that a presentation of our two principal alliances is useful to an understanding of our financial statements. BMS Alliance Our revenues, expenses and operating profits are affected significantly by the presentation of our alliance with BMS in our consolidated financial statements. The two products that are subject to the BMS alliance, Aprovel® and Plavix®, accounted for an aggregate of €2,448 million of consolidated net sales in 2004 and €2,918 million of consolidated net sales in 2005. Total developed sales of the two products amounted to an aggregate of €5,480 million in 2004 (on a comparable basis) and €6,298 million in 2005. The proportion of developed sales of these products represented by our consolidated revenues from these products varies from year to year because differences in the marketing arrangements for these products from country to country affect the presentation of sales of these products. There are three principal marketing arrangements that are used: • Co-marketing. Under the co-marketing system, each company markets the products independently under its own brand names. We record our own sales and related costs in our consolidated financial statements. • Exclusive Marketing. Under the exclusive marketing system, one company has the exclusive right to market the products. We record our own sales and related costs in our consolidated financial statements. • Co-promotion. Under the co-promotion system, the products are marketed through the alliance arrangements (either by contractual arrangements or by separate entities) under a single brand name. The accounting treatment of the co-promotion arrangement depends upon who has majority ownership and operational management in that territory, as discussed below. The alliance arrangements include two royalty streams that are applied on a worldwide basis (excluding Japan), regardless of the marketing system and regardless of which company has majority ownership and operational management: • Discovery Royalty. We earn a discovery royalty on all sales of Aprovel® and Plavix® regardless of the marketing system. The discovery royalty is reflected in our consolidated statement of income in “other revenues.” • Development Royalty. In addition to the discovery royalty, we and BMS are each entitled to a development royalty related to certain know-how and other intellectual property in connection with sales of Aprovel® and Plavix®. Each legal entity that markets products pays a development royalty. We record development royalties paid to BMS in our consolidated statement of income as an increase to our cost of goods sold in countries where we consolidate sales of the products. We record development royalties that we receive as “other revenues” in countries where BMS consolidates sales of the products. 72 Table of Contents In 2005, we received an aggregate of €793 million in royalties under the alliance arrangements, and we paid BMS an aggregate of €77 million in royalties under the alliance arrangements (compared to €650 million and €63 million, respectively, in 2004). Under the alliance arrangements, there are two territories, one under our operational management and the other under the operational management of BMS. The territory under our operational management consists of Europe and most of Africa and Asia, while the territory under the operational management of BMS consists of the rest of the world. Our alliance with BMS does not cover Plavix® in Japan. In Japan, Aprovel® is under development through agreements between BMS and the Japanese pharmaceutical company Shionogi Pharmaceuticals. Territory under our operational management. In the territory under our operational management, the marketing arrangements are as follows: • We use the co-promotion system for most of the countries of Western Europe for Aprovel® and Plavix® and for certain Asian countries for Plavix®. We record 100% of all alliance revenues and expenses in our consolidated financial statements. We also record, as selling and general expenses, payments to BMS for the cost of BMS’s personnel involved in the promotion of the products. BMS’s share of the operating profit of the alliances is recorded as “minority interests”. • We use the co-marketing system in Germany, Spain and Greece for both Aprovel® and Plavix® and in Italy for Aprovel®. • We have the exclusive right to market Aprovel® and Plavix® in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and we have the exclusive right to market Aprovel® in Asia (excluding Japan). Territory under BMS operational management. In the territory under BMS operational management, the marketing arrangements are as follows: • We use the co-promotion system in the United States and Canada, where the products are sold through the alliances under the operational management of BMS. With respect to Avapro® (the brand name used in the United States for Aprovel®) and Plavix®, we record our share of the alliance’s operating profit under “share of profit/loss of associates”. We also record payments from BMS for the cost of our personnel in connection with the promotion of the product as a deduction from our selling and general expenses. • We use the co-marketing system in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Australia for Plavix® and Aprovel® and in Colombia for Plavix®. • We have the exclusive right to market the products in certain other countries of Latin America. In countries where the products are marketed by BMS on a co-marketing basis, or through alliances under the operational management of BMS, we also earn revenues from the sale of the active ingredients for the products, which we record as net sales in our consolidated statement of income. P&G Alliance The other principal alliance with a significant effect on our revenues, expenses and operating profits is our alliance with P&G relating to the product Actonel® (risedronate sodium). Actonel®, a new-generation biphosphonate indicated for the treatment and prevention of osteoporosis, is developed and marketed in collaboration with P&G under an agreement signed in April 1997 and amended on October 8, 2004. This agreement covers the worldwide development and marketing of the product, except for Japan. Under the Actonel® alliance, local marketing arrangements may take various forms: • Co-promotion, whereby sales resources are pooled but only one of the two partners invoices product sales. Co-promotion is carried out under contractual agreements and is not based on any specific legal entity. As of December 31, 2004, P&G sells the product and incurs all the related costs for the following countries: United States, Canada, France, Germany, Belgium, The Netherlands and Luxembourg. We 73 Table of Contents recognize our share of income under the agreement in the statement of income as a component of “Operating income — current” on the line “Other current operating income.” In the United Kingdom and Ireland, we sell the product and recognize all the revenues from sales of the product along with the corresponding expenses in our consolidated statement of income. • Co-marketing, which applies only in Italy, whereby each partner sells the product in the country under its own name and recognizes all revenues and expenses from its own operations in its statement of income. • In all other territories, we have exclusive rights to sell the product. We recognize all revenues and expenses from our own operations in our statement of income, but in return for these exclusive rights pay P&G a royalty based on actual sales. This royalty is recognized in cost of goods sold. Impact of Exchange Rates We report our consolidated financial statements in euros. Because we earn a significant portion of our revenues in countries where the euro is not the local currency, our results of operations can be significantly affected by exchange rate movements between the euro and other currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen and, to a lesser extent, the British pound and currencies in emerging countries. We experience these effects even though certain of these countries do not account for a large portion of our net sales. In 2005, we earned 35.0% of our net sales in the United States. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against the euro has a negative impact on our revenues, which is not offset by an equal reduction in our costs and therefore negatively affects our operating profits. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar has a particularly significant impact on our operating margins, which are higher in the United States than elsewhere due mainly to the fact that we record operating profit, but only limited consolidated net sales, from sales of Plavix® and Aprovel® in the United States by alliance entities under the operational management of BMS. For a description of positions entered into to manage operational exchange rate risks as well as our hedging policy, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks.” Divestments Our main divestments during 2005 were: Ÿ divestment on March 31, 2005 of PharmaServ Marburg, a German subsidiary 67% owned by sanofi-aventis as of December 31, 2004; Ÿ divestment on March 31, 2005 of Dogu Ilac Veteriner Urunleri As, a Turkish subsidiary 100% owned by sanofi-aventis; Ÿ divestment on August 5, 2005 by our subsidiary Hoechst AG of its remaining 44.3% interest in Wacker-Chemie GmbH to a company associated with the Wacker family; and Ÿ divestment on September 1, 2005 of a line of oral hygiene products including Fluocaril® and Parogencyl® to Procter & Gamble. 74 Table of Contents On January 13, 2006, we announced the signature of an agreement to transfer our rights to Exubera® (an inhaled human insulin) to Pfizer, under the change of control clause included in the terms of the 1998 alliance between Aventis and Pfizer. Under the terms of the agreement, on February 28, 2006, we sold our share in the worldwide rights for the development, manufacture and marketing of Exubera®, and our interest in the Diabel joint venture to Pfizer for $1.3 billion (net of German taxes). See “Liquidity and Capital Resources — Cash Flow,” below. Results of Operations Year ended December 31, 2005 compared with year ended December 31, 2004 Consolidated Results of Operations The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2004 include the financial statements of Aventis and its subsidiaries for only part of the year, as these entities have been consolidated by sanofi-aventis only since August 20, 2004. Consequently, year-on-year percentage changes in consolidated data between 2004 and 2005 are not representative of actual operating performance trends in the Group’s businesses. The table below shows the main components of net income in 2004 and 2005: (under IFRS) 2004 2005 In millions of euro as % ofnet sales as % ofnet sales Net sales 14,871 100.0 % 27,311 100.0 % Other revenues 862 5.8 % 1,202 4.4 % Cost of sales (4,439 ) (29.9 %) (7,566 ) (27.7 %) Gross profit 11,294 75.9 % 20,947 76.7 % Research & development expenses (2,389 ) (16.1 %) (4,044 ) (14.8 %) Selling & general expenses (4,600 ) (30.9 %) (8,250 ) (30.2 %) Other current operating income 214 1.4 % 261 1.0 % Other current operating expenses (38 ) (0.2 %) (124 ) (0.5 %) Amortization of intangibles (1,581 ) (10.6 %) (4,037 ) (14.8 %) Operating income – current 2,900 19.5 % 4,753 17.4 % Restructuring costs (679 ) (4.6 %) (972 ) (3.6 %) Impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangibles — — (972 ) (3.6 %) Other operating income and expenses 205 1.4 % 79 0.4 % Operating income 2,426 16.3 % 2,888 10.6 % Financial expenses (239 ) (1.6 %) (532 ) (1.9 %) Financial income 124 0.8 % 287 1.0 % Income tax expense (479 ) (3.2 %) (477 ) (1.8 %) Share of profit/loss of associates 409 2.8 % 427 1.6 % Minority interests (255 ) (1.7 %) (335 ) (1.2 %) Consolidated net income 1,986 13.4 % 2,258 8.3 % Consolidated Net Sales We had total consolidated net sales of €27,311 million in 2005, representing an increase of 83.7% over net sales of €14,871 million in 2004. The magnitude of the difference was principally the result of the consolidation of the net sales of Aventis beginning on August 20, 2004. Our consolidated net sales are generated by our two businesses: our pharmaceuticals activity and our human vaccines activity. The following table breaks down our 2005 and 2004 consolidated net sales by activity: In millions of euro 2004 2005 Change (%) Pharmaceuticals 14,188 25,249 +78.0 % Human vaccines 683 2,062 +201.9 % Total 14,871 27,311 +83.7 % 75 Table of Contents We divide our sales geographically into three regions: Europe, the United States and other countries. The following table breaks down our 2005 and 2004 consolidated net sales by region: In millions of euro 2004 2005 Change (%) Europe 7,266 12,134 +67.0 % United States 4,658 9,566 +105.4 % Other countries 2,947 5,611 +90.4 % Total 14,871 27,311 +83.7 % In Europe, we had consolidated net sales of €12,134 million in 2005, representing 44.4% of total consolidated net sales, compared to 48.9% in 2004. In the United States, our consolidated net sales reached €9,566 million in 2005, representing 35.0% of total consolidated net sales in 2005, compared to 31.3% in 2004, reflecting the greater relative presence of Aventis in the United States compared to sanofi-aventis prior to the acquisition. In other countries, our consolidated net sales reached €5,611 million in 2005, representing 20.6% of total consolidated net sales, compared to 19.8% in 2004. Trends in net sales in 2005 relative to 2004 are discussed below in “— Year Ended December 31, 2005 compared with Pro Forma Year Ended 2004 (Unaudited) — Net sales.” Other Revenues Other revenues, which mainly comprise royalty income under licensing agreements contracted in connection with ongoing operations, totaled €1,202 million, compared with €862 million in 2004. The increase was mainly due to higher royalties from the worldwide alliance with BMS on Plavix® and Aprovel®. Consolidated Gross Profit Our consolidated gross profit was €20,947 million in 2005, compared to €11,294 million in 2004. The gross margin ratio was 76.7% in 2005, against 75.9% in 2004. The improvement in the ratio was due to stronger sales, a more favorable product mix, productivity gains, and our purchasing policy. These positive effects were slightly offset by an increase in cost of sales due to the workdown over the period of some of the acquired inventories remeasured at fair value at the time of the Aventis acquisition. Research and Development Expenses Research and development expenses totaled €4,044 million in 2005, compared to €2,389 million in 2004, mainly as a result of the consolidation of Aventis. For additional information regarding our R&D activities, please see “