ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. An investment in our common stock involves various risks, including those described in the risk factors below. You should carefully consider these risk factors, together with all of the other information included and incorporated by reference in this report, before you decide to invest in our common stock. If any of the following risks, or any other risks not described below, develop into actual events, then our business, financial condition, results of operations, or prospects could be materially adversely affected, the market price of our common stock could decline further and you could lose all or part of your investment. 9 RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS WE HAVE A HISTORY OF LOSSES AND MAY NOT BE PROFITABLE IN THE FUTURE IF WE DO NOT ACHIEVE SUFFICIENT REVENUE TO ABSORB RECENT AND PLANNED EXPENDITURES. We have experienced significant operating losses since investing in the development of ribbon driver technology in 1998 and, through December 31, 2005 have an accumulated retained deficit of approximately $36,799,515. If we do not achieve continued revenue growth sufficient to absorb our recent and planned expenditures, we could experience additional losses in future periods. WE WILL DEPEND ON ADDITIONAL CAPITAL. Our ability to implement our strategy and expand our operations largely depends on our access to capital. To implement our long-term strategy, we plan to make ongoing expenditures for the expansion and improvement of our product line and the promotion of our products. To date, we have financed our operations primarily through sales of equity and the issuance of notes. We will need to issue additional equity or other securities to obtain the financing required to continue our operations. However, additional capital may not be available on terms acceptable to us. Our failure to obtain sufficient additional capital could curtail or alter our growth strategy or delay needed capital expenditures. OUR DEPENDENCE UPON THIRD-PARTY DEALERS FOR SALES MAKES US VULNERABLE TO THE EFFORTS OF OTHERS WHICH ARE BEYOND OUR CONTROL. Our distributors may not continue their current relationships with us and they may give higher priority to the sale of our competitors' products. In addition, to be effective, distributors must devote significant technical, marketing and sales resources to an often lengthy sales cycle. Our current and future distributors may not devote sufficient resources to market our products effectively and economic or industry conditions may adversely affect their ability to market or sell for us. A reduction in sales efforts or a discontinuation of distribution of our products by any distributor could lead to reduced sales and greater net losses. WE MAY NOT GAIN MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF OUR RIBBON DRIVER TECHNOLOGY. We believe that revenues from our ribbon driver product line will account for a material portion of our revenue for the foreseeable future. Our future financial performance will depend on the market acceptance of our ribbon driver technology and products. To date, we have had limited sales of products containing our new technology ribbon drivers. If our ribbon driver technology and product line do not gain sufficient positive market acceptance, we may not achieve anticipated revenue, profits or continued viability. IN THE LOUDSPEAKER MARKET, WE ARE SUBJECT TO INTENSE COMPETITION. Although our ribbon driver loudspeaker products are relatively new and emerging, the markets for loudspeaker products are extremely competitive and we expect such competition to increase. The market for sound enhancement products in general is intensely competitive and sensitive to new product introductions or enhancements and marketing efforts by our competitors. The market is sustained by ongoing technological developments, frequent new product announcements and introductions, evolving industry standards and changing customer requirements. We expect to experience increasing levels of competition in the future. Although we have attempted to design our loudspeaker systems to compete favorably with competitive products, we may not be able to establish and maintain our competitive position against current or potential competitors. Aggressive competition could cause us to have sales and profitability below expectations. 10 IF WE ARE UNABLE TO HIRE OR RETAIN QUALIFIED AND SKILLED PERSONNEL AS NECESSARY, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DEVELOP NEW PRODUCTS OR SUCCESSFULLY MANAGE OUR BUSINESS. We believe our success will depend in large part upon our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled managerial, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and operations personnel. However, we may not be successful in identifying, attracting and retaining such personnel. Our success also depends to a great degree upon the continued contributions of our key management, engineering, sales and marketing, finance and manufacturing personnel, many of whom would be difficult to replace. In particular, we believe that our future success depends on John Gott, Chief Executive Officer. We presently maintain key person life insurance on Mr. Gott in the amount of $5 million, and we have an employment contract with him that expires in June 2008. If we experience the loss of the services of any of our key personnel, we may be unable to identify, attract or retain qualified personnel in the future. This could make it difficult for us to manage our business and meet key objectives, or achieve or sustain profits. OUR PATENT APPLICATION MAY NOT BE ISSUED AND EVEN IF IT IS ISSUED, WE STILL MAY NOT BE ABLE TO ADEQUATELY PROTECT THE PATENT OR OUR OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY. In September 2002, we filed a U.S. patent application on one portion of our proprietary ribbon driver technology. Our success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain, preserve and defend U.S. patent protection for this technology. The patent may not be issued from the patent application. The issuance of a patent is not conclusive as to its validity or enforceability and, if a patent is issued, it is uncertain how much protection, if any, will be given to our patent if we attempt to enforce it. Litigation, which could be costly and time consuming, may be necessary to enforce our current patents or any patent issued in the future or to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of third parties. A competitor may successfully challenge the validity or enforceability of a patent or challenge the extent of the patent's coverage. If the outcome of litigation is adverse to us, third parties may be able to use our patented technology without payment to us. Even if we are successful in defending such litigation, the cost of litigation to uphold the patent can be substantial. On March 12, 2004, we acquired Evenstar, Inc., by a merger with and into our newly formed, wholly owned subsidiary, Evenstar Mergersub, Inc. Evenstar is the owner of one issued patent and a second patent that was issued in September 2004. The patents are for Evenstar's digital amplification technology, which provides for substantially reduced production costs compared to amplifiers of comparable quality. We filed two additional patents in 2005 and one more in January 2006. It is possible that competitors may infringe our patents or successfully avoid them through design innovation. To stop these activities we may need to file a lawsuit. These lawsuits are expensive and would consume time and other resources. In addition, there is a risk that a court would decide that our patent is not valid, that we do not have the right to stop the other party from using the inventions, or that the competitor's activities do not infringe our patent. Our competitive position is also dependent upon unpatented technology and trade secrets, which may be difficult to protect. Others may independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques that would legally circumvent our intellectual property rights. Currently, we have not registered any potential trademarks and we may not be able to obtain registration for such trademarks. THE USE OF OUR TECHNOLOGIES COULD POTENTIALLY CONFLICT WITH THE RIGHTS OF OTHERS. Our competitors, or others, may have or may acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. If our products conflict with patent rights of others, third parties could bring legal actions against us or our suppliers or customers, claiming damages and seeking to enjoin manufacturing and marketing of 11 the affected products. If these legal actions are successful, in addition to any potential liability for damages, we could be required to alter our products or obtain a license in order to continue to manufacture or market the affected products. We may not prevail in any legal action and a required license under the patent may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial. WE MUST EXPAND OUR OPERATIONS TO COMMERCIALIZE OUR PRODUCTS, WHICH WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DO. We will need to expand and effectively manage our operations and facilities to successfully pursue and complete our commercialization efforts. We will need to add personnel, including management, and expand our capabilities, which may strain our existing managerial, operational, financial and other resources. To compete effectively and manage our growth, we must train, manage and motivate a substantially larger employee base, accurately forecast demand for our products and implement operational, financial and management information systems. In the event that we fail to expand or manage our growth effectively or if we cannot recruit qualified employees, our commercialization efforts could be curtailed or delayed. WE MAY ACQUIRE OTHER BUSINESSES OR TECHNOLOGIES, AND WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO INTEGRATE AND OPERATE THE ACQUISITIONS. In March 2004 we acquired Evenstar, Inc. From time to time, we have considered the acquisition of other businesses or other technologies, and we continue to consider such acquisitions as opportunities arise. Some of these businesses and technologies, including Evenstar, are directly related to our business and others are not. If we make any such acquisitions, we may not be able to efficiently combine our operations with those of the businesses or technologies we acquire without encountering difficulties. These difficulties could result from a variety of issues, including incompatible operating practices, corporate cultures, product lines, or technologies. As a result, we may have difficulties in integrating, managing and operating the acquired businesses and technologies. RISKS RELATED TO OUR SECURITIES SINCE OUR COMMON STOCK IS THINLY TRADED, IT CAN BE SUBJECT TO EXTREME RISES OR DECLINES IN PRICE, AND YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO SELL YOUR SHARES AT OR ABOVE THE PRICE YOU PAID. You may have difficulty reselling shares of our common stock. You may not be able to resell your shares at or above the price you paid, or at a fair market value. The stock markets often experience significant price and volume changes that are not related to the operating performance of individual companies. These broad market changes may cause the market price of our common stock to decline regardless of how well we perform as a company. FUTURE SALES OF COMMON STOCK COULD DEPRESS THE PRICE OF OUR COMMON STOCK. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933 or otherwise could have a material adverse impact on the market price for the common stock at the time. On March 6, 2006, there were approximately 15,746,613 outstanding shares of our common stock held by stockholders that are deemed "restricted securities" as defined by Rule 144 under the Securities Act. The resale of many of these shares has been registered on a registration statement filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Upon sale pursuant to such registration statement, the shares would no longer be restricted securities. Also, under certain 12 circumstances, these shares may be sold without registration pursuant to the provisions of Rule 144. In general, under Rule 144, a person (or persons whose shares are aggregated) who has held the stock for one year may, under certain circumstances, sell within any three-month period a number of restricted securities that does not exceed the greater of 1% of the shares outstanding or the average weekly trading volume during the four calendar weeks preceding the notice of sale required by Rule 144. In addition, Rule 144 permits, under certain circumstances, the sale of restricted securities without any quantity limitations by a non-affiliate who has held the security for two years. Any sales of shares by stockholders pursuant to a registration statement or Rule 144 may have a depressive effect on the price of our common stock. WE MAY HAVE LIABILITY FOR PRIOR ISSUANCES OF OUR STOCK. From May 1, 2002 through May 10, 2004, warrant holders exercised 2,545,800 of our Class A Warrants and 22,600 of our Class B Warrants for a total of 2,568,400 shares of common stock. The warrant holders paid an aggregate of $1,340,700 for these exercises. From May 1, 2002 through May 10, 2004, the registration statement that we filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission to register the common stock issuable upon exercise of these warrants may not have been "current" because the registration statement had not been amended to include our most recent audited financial statements. As a result, the former warrant holders may be entitled to demand a rescission of their previous exercises of common stock. We intended to, but ultimately did not, make a rescission offer in 2005 to all warrant holders who exercised warrants during the period from May 1, 2002 through May 10, 2004. The rescission offer would require us to repurchase the shares of common stock issued upon exercise of the warrants at their original exercise price, $.50 for the Class A Warrants and $3.00 for the Class B Warrants, at each warrant holder's option. If all warrant holders accepted the rescission offer, we would be required to pay $1,340,700 plus interest, which amount would be reduced to the extent of the proceeds from any sales of the underlying common stock by the former warrant holders. Acceptance of the rescission offer by all former warrant holders could have a material adverse effect. The current market price is over the $.50 exercise price of the Class A Warrants, and if that remains true, we would expect no former holders of Class A Warrants to accept any rescission offer. The current market price is below the $3.00 exercise price of the Class B Warrants. Only 22,600 Class B Warrants were exercised during the rescission offer period, making our potential rescission liability to the former Class B Warrant holders equal to $67,800 plus interest, which amount would be reduced to the extent of any sales of the underlying common stock by the former warrant holders. We did not make the rescission offer in 2005, as we focused instead on capital-raising, new product launches, and other activities. In 2006, we intend to determine whether to make the rescission offer or to allow the statute of limitations to continue to run through their expiration under applicable state law. SHARES OF CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK MAY NOT HAVE BEEN VALIDLY ISSUED. In 2001 - 2003, we sold shares of our Convertible Preferred Stock, which is sometimes reflected in our financial statements as our Series A Preferred Stock. We subsequently discovered that the certificate of designation for the Convertible Preferred Stock had not been filed, and we made such filing in December 2004. The delay in filing the certificate of designation may have resulted in the shares of Convertible Preferred Stock not being validly issued under Delaware law. To date, we have issued 1,891,473 shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock, all of which were issued prior to the filing of the certificate of designation and 44,000 of which remain outstanding on March 21, 2006. All other shares have converted to common stock on a 10-to-1 basis, at a conversion price of $0.25 per share. We believe that the conversion to common stock cures any issues related to the potential invalid issuance of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock. We may have rescission liability for the 44,000 shares that have not converted, subject to the prior expiration of applicable statutes of limitation. 13 CERTAIN RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS MAY LIMIT OUR ABILITY TO RAISE ADDITIONAL CAPITAL AND AFFECT OTHER ASPECTS OF OUR BUSINESS. In our January 2005 private placement of Series C Preferred Stock and warrants, we entered into a securities purchase agreement with the investors. The agreement and the certificate of designation for the Series C Preferred Stock contain numerous covenants that limit our financing and other activities, including those described in the following paragraphs. In late 2005 and early 2006, we have been attempting to raise additional capital, and the restrictions contained in this agreement and the certificate of designation, have created a significant impediment to our capital-raising efforts. So long as at least 3,750 shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are outstanding and held by the original purchasers thereof, we may not pay any cash dividends, make distributions, redeem or repurchase any capital stock, or repay or prepay any previously existing indebtedness of ours other than as expressly required pursuant to the terms of such indebtedness. So long as any shares of the Series C Preferred Stock are beneficially owned by the original purchasers thereof, we may not issue or sell any rights, warrants or options to subscribe for or purchase our common stock, or any other securities directly or indirectly convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for our common stock, at an effective conversion, exchange or exercise price that varies or may vary with the market price of our common stock. Prior to January 3, 2007, the investors in the January 2005 private placements have a right to participate in any issuance of equity securities, equity-linked securities, or convertible debt, subject to certain exceptions. The participation rights may prevent other potential investors from making offers for, or entering into agreements to purchase, our securities and thereby limiting our ability to raise capital. If we issue our common stock at a price per share less than the then-current exercise price of the 6,000,000 warrants issued together with the sale of our Series C Preferred Stock, the exercise price of the warrants shall be adjusted downward pursuant to a formula set forth in the warrants. WE ARE OBLIGATED TO REDEEM OUR SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS. Pursuant to the terms of the certificate of designation for our Series C Preferred Stock, we are required to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock upon the occurrence of certain events, including the following: o our common stock is suspended from trading on any of, or is not listed or quoted (and authorized) for trading on at least one of, the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange, the NASDAQ National Market, the NASDAQ Capital Market or the OTC Bulletin Board for an aggregate of ten or more trading days in any twelve-month period; o the registration statement that registered the resale of shares of common stock issuable upon conversion of the Series C Preferred Stock and exercise of the warrants, after being declared effective, cannot be used by the holders of Series C Preferred Stock for the resale of all of the common stock issuable to them for an aggregate of more than 20 days, subject to certain exceptions; o we make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver or trustee for us or for a substantial part of our property or business, or such a receiver or trustee shall otherwise be appointed; 14 o bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or liquidation proceedings or other proceedings for the relief of debtors shall be instituted by or against us or any subsidiary of ours and if instituted against us or any of our subsidiaries by a third party, shall not be dismissed within 60 days of their initiation; o if at least 3,750 shares of Series C Preferred Stock are outstanding and held by the original purchasers thereof and we do any of the following: (a) sell, convey or dispose of all or substantially all of our assets; (b) consummate specified mergers, consolidations or business combinations; (c) engage in transactions providing for sales or issuances by us or our stockholders that result in the purchaser owning or having the right to acquire greater than 35% of the outstanding shares of our common stock (calculated on a fully diluted basis); or (d) issue or agree to issue any equity or equity-linked securities or debt that is convertible into equity or in which there is an equity component, subject to certain exceptions; o we either fail to make any payment with respect to any of our indebtedness in excess of $250,000, subject to certain exceptions, or default under any agreement binding us, subject to certain exceptions; or o we breach any material term under the certificate of designation for our Series C Preferred Stock, the Series C Preferred Stock securities purchase agreement, the registration rights agreement or the warrants attached to the Series C Preferred Stock, subject to certain exceptions. Any such redemption would be made at a premium in excess of the purchase price of the shares of Series C Preferred Stock, as determined by a formula set forth in the certificate of designation for the Series C Preferred Stock. These requirements may cause us to pay a significant amount of money to redeem the Series C Preferred Stock or may cause us to avoid taking certain actions in order to prevent the occurrence of such redemption requirement. WE MAY BE REQUIRED TO PAY SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNTS TO THE INVESTORS IN OUR JANUARY 2005 PRIVATE PLACEMENT UPON THE OCCURRENCE OF CERTAIN EVENTS. In connection with the January 2005 private placement of our Series C Preferred Stock and warrants, we agreed to file a registration statement to register the resale of shares of our common stock by the investors in the private placement. We have an obligation to register additional shares that may be issuable from time to time as a result of potential adjustments to the preferred stock and warrants. We filed a registration statement to register the resale of these shares, and the registration statement was declared effective in February 2005. We could be required to pay amounts to each investor upon the occurrence of certain events, including (a) the number of the investors' shares registered on the registration statement is less than the number then issued or issuable to such investors pursuant to the Series C Preferred Stock and warrants; (b) sales of our common stock can not be made pursuant to the registration statement; or (c) our common stock is not traded, listed or included for quotation, as applicable, on the OTC Bulletin Board, American Stock Exchange or other stock exchanges or certain automated quotation systems. Each of the foregoing events are, to some extent, beyond our control. 15 If any of the foregoing events occur, then we would be required to pay each investor an amount equal to the product of (x) the number of shares of Series C Preferred Stock held by such investor (plus any shares of preferred stock that have been converted into shares of our common stock then held by such investor as if such shares of preferred stock had not been so converted) multiplied by the per share purchase price, multiplied by (y).02 for each thirty-day period prior to the elimination or termination of such event. Assuming that the 6,000,000 shares of Series C Preferred Stock originally issued remain the number outstanding during such periods, then the amounts payable pursuant to such provisions are $300,000 each thirty-day period. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. This item is inapplicable, as we currently have no unresolved staff comments. 