ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business in General The recent economic downturn in the general economy and its continuing effects on the real estate market have negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business and financial results. Periods of economic slowdown or recession, significantly reduced access to credit, declining employment levels, decreasing demand for real estate, declining real estate values or the perception that any of these events may occur, can reduce transaction volumes or demand for our services. The recent recession and the downturn in the real estate market could result in: a decline in acquisition, disposition and leasing activity; a decline in the supply of capital invested in commercial and residential real estate; and a decline in the value of real estate and in rental rates, which would cause us to realize lower revenue from: property management and transaction fees, which in certain cases are calculated as a percentage of the revenue of the property under management; and rental revenue, respectively. 5 The fragile state of the credit markets, the fear of a global recession for an extended period and the current economic environment have impacted real estate services and management firms like ours through reduced transaction volumes, falling transaction values, lower real estate valuations, liquidity restrictions, market volatility, and the loss of consumer confidence. Due to the continuing economic uncertainty and the instability in credit markets, it may take us longer to sell real estate assets and investments and the selling prices may be lower than originally anticipated. In addition, the performance of certain properties in our management portfolio may be negatively impacted, which would likewise affect our fees. As a result, the carrying value of certain of our real estate investments may become impaired and we could record losses as a result of such impairment or we could experience reduced profitability related to declines in real estate values. We are not able to predict the severity or duration of the disruption in the financial markets. The real estate market tends to be cyclical and related to the condition of the overall economy and to the perceptions of investors, developers and other market participants as to the economic outlook. The ongoing uncertainty in the credit and real estate markets has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our business and our results of operations. The ongoing adverse conditions in the credit markets and the risk of continued market deterioration have adversely affected our revenues, expenses and operating results and may continue to do so. We are sensitive to credit cost and availability as well as market place liquidity. We anticipate needing to borrow funds to meet our operating cash flow needs. In addition, the revenues in our business are dependent to some extent on overall volume of activity and pricing in the real estate market. Disruptions in the credit markets could adversely affect our business of providing services to owners, purchasers, sellers, investors and occupants of real estate in connection with acquisitions, dispositions and leasing of real property. If we and/or our clients are unable to obtain credit on favorable terms, there will be fewer completed acquisitions, dispositions and leases of property. In addition, if purchasers of real estate are not able to obtain favorable financing resulting in a lack of disposition opportunities for funds, our property management fee revenues will decline and we may also experience losses on real estate held for investment. The difficulty in obtaining financing has either eliminated or severely reduced the availability of our historical funding sources and to the extent credit remains available, it is currently more expensive. We may not be able to continue to access sources of funding for our needs, or, if sources are available to us, those sources may not be available with favorable terms. Any decision by lenders to make additional funds available to us in the future for our operational or investment needs will depend upon a number of factors, such as industry and market trends in our business, the lenders’ own resources and policies concerning loans and investments, and the relative attractiveness of alternative investment or lending opportunities. The depth and duration of credit market disruptions are impossible to predict. In fact, the magnitude of the 2010 credit market disruption exceeded the expectations of most if not all market participants. This uncertainty limits our ability to develop future business plans and we believe that it limits the ability of other participants in the credit markets and the real estate markets to do so as well. This uncertainty may lead market participants to act more conservatively than in recent history, which may continue to depress demand and pricing in our markets. A potential change in U.S. accounting standards regarding operating leases may make the leasing of our properties less attractive to our potential tenants, which could reduce overall demand for our leasing services. Under current authoritative accounting guidance for leases, a lease is classified by a tenant as a capital lease if the significant risks and rewards of ownership are considered to reside with the tenant. Under capital lease accounting for a tenant, both the leased asset and liability are reflected on their balance sheet. If the lease does not meet any of the criteria for a capital lease, the lease is considered an operating lease by the tenant, and the obligation does not appear on the tenant's balance sheet; rather, the contractual future minimum payment obligations are only disclosed in the footnotes thereto. Thus, entering into an operating lease can appear to enhance a tenant's balance sheet in comparison to direct ownership. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or the FASB, and the International Accounting Standards Board, or the IASB, conducted a joint project to re-evaluate lease accounting. In August 2010, the FASB and the IASB jointly released exposure drafts of a proposed accounting model that would significantly change lease accounting. The final standards have yet to be released. Changes to the accounting guidance could affect both our accounting for leases as well as that of our current and potential tenants. These changes may affect how our real estate leasing business is conducted. For example, if the accounting standards regarding the financial statement classification of operating leases are revised, then companies may be less willing to enter into leases with us in general or desire to enter into leases with us with shorter terms because the apparent benefits to their balance sheets could be reduced or eliminated. 6 We are in a highly competitive business with numerous competitors; some competitors may have greater financial and operational resources than we do. We compete in a variety of service disciplines within the real estate industry. Each of these areas is highly competitive on a national as well as on a regional and local level. We face competition not only from national real estate service providers, but also from global real estate service providers and boutique real estate firms. Depending on the service, we also face competition from other real estate service providers, institutional lenders, insurance companies, investment banking firms, investment managers and accounting firms, some of which may have greater financial resources than we do. We are also subject to competition from other large national firms and from multi-national firms that have similar service competencies to us. Although many of our competitors are local or regional firms that are similarly sized, many of our competitors are substantially larger than us on a local, regional, national or international basis. In general, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to compete effectively with respect to any of our business or on an overall basis, or to maintain current fee levels, or maintain or increase our market share. As a service-oriented company, we depend upon the retention of senior management and key personnel, and the loss of our current personnel or our failure to hire and retain additional personnel could harm our business. Our success is dependent upon our ability to retain our executive officers and other key employees and to attract and retain highly skilled personnel. We believe that our future success in developing our business and maintaining a competitive position will depend in large part on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train, retain and motivate highly skilled executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may not be able to successfully recruit, assimilate or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. We use equity incentives to attract and retain our key personnel. Poor performance of our stock may diminish our ability to offer attractive incentive awards to new hires. Our failure to recruit and retain necessary executive, managerial, sales, marketing and customer service personnel could harm our business and our ability to obtain new customers. If we fail to manage any future growth effectively, we may experience a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The future integration of acquisitions and additional growth may place a significant strain upon management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Our ability to grow also depends upon our ability to successfully hire, train, supervise and manage additional executive officers and new employees, obtain financing for our capital needs, expand our systems effectively, allocate our human resources optimally, maintain clear lines of communication between our transactional and management functions and our finance and accounting functions, and manage the pressures on our management and administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. Additionally, managing future growth may be difficult due to the new geographic locations and service offerings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to accurately anticipate and respond to the changing demands we will face as we integrate and continue to expand our operations, and we may not be able to manage growth effectively or to achieve growth at all. Any failure to manage our future growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Property Management If the properties that we manage fail to perform, then our business and results of operations could be harmed. Our success partially depends upon the performance of the properties we manage. We could be adversely affected by the nonperformance of, or the deteriorating financial condition of, certain of our clients. The revenue we generate from our property management fees is generally a percentage of aggregate rent collections from the properties. The performance of these properties will depend upon the following factors, among others, many of which are partially or completely outside of our control: our ability to attract and retain creditworthy tenants; the magnitude of defaults by tenants under their respective leases; our ability to control operating expenses; governmental regulations, local rent control or stabilization ordinances which are in, or may be put into, effect; various uninsurable risks; financial condition of certain clients; the nature and extent of competitive properties; and the general real estate market. 7 These or other factors may negatively impact the properties that we manage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We may have liabilities in connection with property and facilities management activities. We could become subject to claims by participants in real estate sales, as well as building owners and companies for whom we provide management services, claiming that we did not fulfill our statutory obligations as a broker. In addition, with regard to our property and facilities management services, we hire and supervise third party contractors to provide construction and engineering services for our properties and our third party clients properties. While our role is limited to that of a supervisor, we may be subject to claims for construction defects or other similar actions. Adverse outcomes of property and facilities management litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Third party management contracts can be terminated. Loss of a significant number of contracts and fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Environmental regulations may adversely impact our business and/or cause us to incur costs for cleanup of hazardous substances or wastes or other environmental liabilities. Federal, state and local laws and regulations impose various environmental restrictions, use controls, and disclosure obligations which impact the management, development, use, and/or sale of real estate. Such laws and regulations tend to discourage sales and leasing activities, as well as mortgage lending availability, with respect to some properties. A decrease or delay in such transactions may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, a failure by us to disclose environmental concerns in connection with a real estate transaction may subject us to liability to a buyer or lessee of property. In addition, in our role as a property manager, we could incur liability under environmental laws for the investigation or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances or wastes at properties we currently or formerly managed, or at off-site locations where wastes from such properties were disposed. Such liability can be imposed without regard for the lawfulness of the original disposal activity, or our knowledge of, or fault for, the release or contamination. Further, liability under some of these laws may be joint and several, meaning that one liable party could be held responsible for all costs related to a contaminated site. We could also be held liable for property damage or personal injury claims alleged to result from environmental contamination, or from asbestos-containing materials or lead-based paint present at the properties we manage. Insurance for such matters may not be available or sufficient. Certain requirements governing the removal or encapsulation of asbestos-containing materials, as well as recently enacted local ordinances obligating property managers to inspect for and remove lead-based paint in certain buildings, could increase our cost to comply with the law and potentially subject us to violations or claims. Although such costs have not had a material impact on our financial results or competitive position during fiscal year 2012 or 2011, the enactment of additional regulations, or more stringent enforcement of existing regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs in the future, and/or adversely impact our management services fees. Risks Related to Investment in Properties We are subject to the risks related to the ownership and operation of real estate that can adversely impact our business and financial condition. The value of our investments may be reduced by general risks of real estate ownership: Since we derive income from real estate operations, we are subject to the general risks of acquiring and owning real estate-related assets, including: changes in the national, state and local economic climate and real estate conditions, such as oversupply of or reduced demand for real estate space and changes in market rental rates; how prospective tenants perceive the attractiveness, convenience and safety of our properties; difficulties in consummating and financing acquisitions and/or enhancements on advantageous terms and the failure of properties to perform as expected; our ability to provide adequate management, maintenance and insurance; natural disasters, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, which could exceed the aggregate limits of our insurance coverage; the expense of periodically renovating, repairing and re-letting spaces; the impact of environmental protection laws; compliance with federal, state, and local laws and regulations; increasing operating and maintenance costs, including property taxes, insurance and utilities, if these increased costs cannot be passed through to tenants; adverse changes in tax, real estate and zoning laws and regulations; increasing competition from other properties in our market; tenant defaults and bankruptcies; tenants’ right to sublease space; and concentration of properties leased to non-rated private companies with uncertain financial strength. 8 Certain significant costs, such as mortgage payments, real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance, generally are not reduced even when a property’s rental income is reduced. In addition, environmental and tax laws, interest rate levels, the availability of financing and other factors may affect real estate values and property income. Furthermore, the supply of space fluctuates with market conditions. If our properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including any debt service, tenant improvements, lease commissions and other capital expenditures, we may have to borrow additional amounts to cover fixed costs, we may elect to not service the debt and attempt to negotiate different terms with the bank, or we may sell the property, or the property may be repossessed by the lender. Properties that we acquire may be located in new markets where we may face risks associated with investing in an unfamiliar market. We may acquire or accept management responsibilities for properties in markets that are new to us. When we acquire or manage properties located in these markets, we may face risks associated with a lack of market knowledge or understanding of the local economy, forging new business relationships in the area and unfamiliarity with local government and local procedures. Because real estate investments are generally illiquid, and various factors limit our ability to dispose of assets, we may not be able to sell properties when appropriate. Real estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, we have limited ability to vary our portfolio quickly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Climate change and weather pattern shifts may adversely affect our profitability. We consider our largest risk related to climate change to be legislative and regulatory changes intended to slow or prevent it, and the potential costs to us to implement these changes. We are also subject to physical risks inherent in owning real property that include but are not limited to; severe weather events such as hurricanes, tornadoes, and wildfires. To the extent that changes in climate effect changes in weather patterns (such as more severe weather events) or changes in sea level where we have properties, we could be adversely affected. To the extent that climate change results in changes in sea level, we would expect such effects to be gradual and amenable to structural mitigation during the useful life of our buildings. However, if this is not the case it is possible that we would be impacted in an adverse way, potentially materially so. We could experience both risks and opportunities as a result of related physical impacts. For example, more extreme weather patterns – namely, a warmer summer or a cooler winter – could increase demand for our properties in areas that are not as adversely impacted as other areas. However, we also could experience more difficult operating conditions in that type of environment. We maintain various types of insurance in amounts we consider appropriate for risks associated with weather events. Should an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of insured limits occur, we could lose our capital invested in the property, as well as the anticipated future revenues from the property and, in the case of debt which has recourse provisions, we would remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. Any such loss would adversely affect us. We will generally be liable for any unsatisfied obligations other than non-recourse obligations. We believe that our properties are adequately insured. No assurance can be given that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. Joint venture investments will expose us to certain risks. We may from time to time enter into joint venture transactions for portions of our existing or future real estate assets. Investing in this manner subjects us to certain risks, among them the following: we will not exercise sole decision making authority regarding the joint ventures business and assets and, thus, we may not be able to take actions that we believe are in our company’s best interests; we may be required to accept liability for obligations of the joint venture (such as recourse carve-outs on mortgage loans beyond our economic interest; our returns on joint venture assets may be adversely affected if the assets are not held for the long-term. 9 Our ability to renew leases or re-lease space on favorable terms as leases expire significantly affects our business. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration of leases for space located in our properties, the premises may not be re-let or the terms of re-letting (including the cost of concessions to tenants) may be less favorable than current lease terms. If a tenant does not renew its lease or if a tenant defaults on its lease obligations, there is no assurance we could obtain a substitute tenant on acceptable terms. If we cannot obtain another tenant with comparable needs, we may be required to modify the property for a different use, which may involve a significant capital expenditure and a delay in releasing the property. Further, if we are unable to re-let promptly all or a substantial portion of our space or if the rental rates upon such re-letting were significantly lower than expected rates, our revenues and ability to provide cash for our operations would be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain tenants in any of our properties upon the expiration of their leases. A property that incurs a vacancy could be difficult to sell or re-lease. A property may incur a vacancy either by the continued default of a tenant under its lease or the expiration of one of our leases. Certain of our properties may be specifically suited to the particular needs of a tenant. We may have difficulty obtaining a new tenant for any vacant space we have in our properties. If the vacancy continues for a long period of time, we may suffer reduced revenues resulting in less cash available to meet our operational needs. In addition, the resale value of a property could be diminished because the market value of a particular property will depend principally upon the value of the leases of such property. Leveraging our portfolio subjects us to increased risk of loss, including loss of properties in the event of a foreclosure. Our portfolio is highly leveraged. The use of leverage presents an additional element of risk in the event that; the cash flow from lease payments on our properties is insufficient to meet debt obligations; we are unable to refinance our debt obligations as necessary or on as favorable terms; or there is an increase in interest rates. If a property is mortgaged to secure payment of indebtedness and we are unable to meet mortgage payments, the property could be foreclosed upon with a consequent loss of income and asset value to us. Our organization documents contain no limitation on the amount or percentage of indebtedness which we may incur. Therefore, our board of directors, without a vote of the stockholders, could alter the general policy on borrowings at any time. If our debt capitalization policy were changed, we could become more highly leveraged, resulting in an increase in debt service that could adversely affect our operating cash flow and our ability to make expected cash distributions for our operating needs, and could result in an increased risk of default on our obligations. See Item 8 – Consolidated Financial Statements Note 11. Notes Payable for additional information on our debt. Covenants in our credit agreements could limit our flexibility and adversely affect our financial condition. The terms of our credit facilities and other indebtedness require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants. These covenants may limit our flexibility in our operations, and breaches of these covenants could result in defaults under the instruments governing the applicable indebtedness even if we have satisfied our payment obligations. If our properties were foreclosed upon, or if we are unable to refinance our indebtedness at maturity or meet our payment obligations, the amount of our cash flows and our financial condition could be adversely affected. See Item 8 – Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Date Note 11. Notes Payable, for additional information regarding our debt. 10 Other Risks Certain officers and directors may have interests that conflict with the interests of stockholders. Certain of our officers and members of our board of directors may have personal interests that conflict with the interests of our stockholders with respect to business decisions affecting us and our Operating Partnership, such as interests in the timing and pricing of property sales or refinancing in order to obtain favorable tax treatment. As a result, the effect of certain transactions on these members of management may influence our decisions affecting these properties. Our goodwill and other intangible assets could become further impaired, which may require us to take significant non-cash charges against earnings. Under current accounting guidelines, we must assess, at least annually and potentially more frequently, whether the value of our goodwill and other intangible assets has been impaired. Any impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of such analysis would result in a non-cash charge against earnings, which charge could materially adversely affect our reported results of operations, stockholders’ equity and our stock price. A significant and sustained decline in our future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the economic environment, slower growth rates or if our stock price falls below our net book value per share for a sustained period, all could result in the need to perform additional impairment analysis in future periods. If we were to conclude that a future write-down of goodwill or other intangible assets is necessary, then we would record such additional charges, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We have a history of losses which may continue, which may negatively impact our ability to achieve our business objectives. We cannot assure you that we can achieve or sustain profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. Our operations are subject to the risks and competition inherent in the establishment of a business enterprise. There can be no assurance that future operations will be profitable. Revenues and profits, if any, will depend upon various factors, including whether we will be able to continue expansion of our revenue. We may not achieve our business objectives and the failure to achieve such goals would have an adverse impact on us. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 11 