Risk Factors Important factors that could cause actual financial or operating results to differ materially from expectations are disclosed in this annual report, including without limitation the following risk factors and the factors described under “Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements.” In addition to the risks listed below, we may be subject to other material risks that are not currently known to us or that we deem immaterial at this time. 3 Table of Contents Risks Relating to Our Company We incurred substantial debt in connection with the acquisition of Aventis, which limits our business flexibility and requires us to devote cash resources to debt service payments. In connection with our acquisition of Aventis, our consolidated debt increased substantially, because we incurred debt to finance the cash portion of the acquisition consideration, and because our consolidated debt includes the debt incurred by Aventis prior to the acquisition. As of December 31, 2006, our debt, net of cash and cash equivalents was €5.8 billion. We make significant debt service payments to our lenders and our current debt level could limit our ability to engage in additional transactions or incur additional indebtedness. For more information on our debt, see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospectus — Liquidity and Capital Resources” in this annual report. We depend on the United States market for a significant part of our current and future operating results. A failure to continue our strategy of profitable operations in that market could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. We may not achieve our growth strategy if we do not maintain and continue to expand profitably our presence in the United States, the world’s largest pharmaceuticals market. We have identified the United States, which accounted for approximately 35.1% of our net sales in 2006, as a potential major source of continued future growth and plan to capitalize on our direct presence in the United States in the coming years to build a strong position in this market. We face a number of challenges in maintaining profitable growth in the United States, including: • the success of the management organization that we have established in the United States; • the targeting of new products and customer markets; • the fact that the United States market is dominated by major U.S. pharmaceutical companies; • slower growth of the U.S. pharmaceutical market than in recent years; • aggressive generic competition reinforced by legislative initiatives to further facilitate the introduction of generic drug or comparable biologic products through accelerated approval procedures; • potential changes in health care reimbursement policies and possible cost control regulations in the United States, including possible unfavorable developments in coverage of prescription drugs by Medicare; • increased FDA demands, leading to a potentially longer, more costly and more restrictive approval process for innovative products; • heightened scrutiny of the pharmaceutical industry by the public and the media; and • exposure to the euro-dollar exchange rate. We depend on third parties for the marketing of some of our products. These third parties may act in ways that could harm our business. We market some of our products in collaboration with other pharmaceutical companies. For example, we currently have major collaborative arrangements with Bristol-Myers Squibb (BMS) for the marketing of Plavix® and Aprovel® in the United States and several other countries, with Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals for the osteoporosis treatment Actonel®, with Teva for Copaxone®, and with Merck & Co., Inc. for the distribution of vaccines in Europe. We also have alliances with several Japanese companies for the marketing of some of our products in Japan. See “