ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could have a materially adverse affect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and the trading price of our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We may not be able to successfully manufacture Natural Plastic at commercial scale in a timely or economical manner. We are currently producing Natural Plastic using our fermentation platform in relatively small quantities, at pre-commercial scale, for use in marketing activities. The current and anticipated methods for manufacturing Natural Plastic, both by fermentation and in crops, and the anticipated methods for producing fuels, are highly complex processes in which a variety of difficulties may arise. We may not be able to resolve any such difficulties in a timely or cost effective fashion, if at all. We are currently developing methods for producing Natural Plastic in plants, namely switchgrass, though we are only operating at research scale. We cannot predict the cost of producing Natural Plastic at commercial scale by fermentation or in switchgrass given the stage of development of this program. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully manufacture Natural Plastic at a commercial scale in a timely or economical manner using either of our technology platforms. Natural Plastic can be produced in a large number of different formulations. Each formulation results in a material that has different performance attributes, such as flexibility, hardness or clarity. As such, different formulations will have utility in different commercial applications. Formulation development is a time-consuming and expensive activity. The development of new formulations requires significant and lengthy product development efforts, including planning, designing, developing and testing at the technological, product and manufacturing-process levels. These activities require us to make significant investments. Although there are many potential applications for Natural Plastic, our resource constraints require us to focus on specific formulations and to forgo other opportunities. We expect that one or more of the potential formulations we choose to develop will not be technologically feasible or will not achieve commercial acceptance, and we cannot predict which, if any, of our formulations we will successfully develop or commercialize. Since ADM has only recently begun construction of the commercial manufacturing facility for the production of Natural Plastic through microbial fermentation (referred to as the Commercial Manufacturing Facility), manufacturing costs at such facility are unknown and may ultimately be higher than we expect. While we believe that manufacturing costs will be reduced over time as we gain manufacturing know-how, we cannot be sure that we can manufacture Natural Plastic in an economical manner. If we, in connection with our alliance with ADM, fail to commence production in a timely manner or to develop manufacturing capacity and experience, fail to continue to contract for manufacturing on 23 acceptable terms, or fail to manufacture Natural Plastic economically on a commercial scale or in commercial volumes, our commercialization of Natural Plastic and our business, financial condition and results of operations will be materially adversely affected. We may not be successful in the development of our products, including Natural Plastic in switchgrass. In addition to our development and scale-up work to produce Natural Plastic through fermentation, we are also at an early stage of development of technology and a process to produce Natural Plastic in crops. We are currently focused on the genetic and process engineering required in connection with such programs. Because we will be funding much, or perhaps all, of the development of such programs, there is a risk that we may not be able to continue to fund such programs to completion or to provide the support necessary to distribute market and sell resulting products, if any, on a worldwide basis. These development programs will consume substantial resources. To date our efforts to produce Natural Plastic in crops has focused primarily on the genetic engineering required to cause the crops to aggregate Natural Plastic in the plant mass during the life cycle of the plant. We have not yet achieved a high enough concentration of Natural Plastic in commercial crops to make the current technology and process economically feasible at a commercial scale. If we are able to complete the genetic engineering work that leads to such aggregation at acceptable levels, we will also need to perform additional process engineering so that Natural Plastic can be recovered from the harvested crops, processed and formulated as required to constitute a marketable product. Such engineering work may not be successful and we may not have the financial resources to fund such work. In connection with these efforts, we are acquiring know-how and developing technology internally that will be useful in efforts to engineer the crops so that upon completion of the harvest and recovery of Natural Plastic, the residual material, or biomass, can be readily converted into fuel through, for example, burning the biomass with coal or other conventional fuels or by converting the biomass into a liquid fuel such as ethanol. These development efforts are at a very early stage. The technological challenges associated with these programs are extraordinary and we may not be able to overcome these challenges. We will be required to invest a significant amount over a long period of time to complete such development work, if it can be completed at all. If ADM does not successfully build the Commercial Manufacturing Facility on time and on budget, our revenues and the distribution of profits, if any, to us will be delayed. The cost of planning, designing, constructing and operating the Commercial Manufacturing Facility being developed to serve the alliance with ADM Polymer Corp., a wholly-owned subsidiary of ADM, and the cost of ancillary facilities and services related to the production of Natural Plastic by the Telles joint venture company, will be very significant. Although the final costs of construction have not been determined, we estimate that our portion of these expenses may be as much as $15 million. ADM will be advancing a disproportionate share of the financial capital needed for such activities and, therefore, under our agreement all profits, after payment of all royalties, reimbursements and fees, from the Telles joint venture company will first be distributed to ADM until ADM’s disproportionate investment in the Telles joint venture company has been returned. If there are difficulties, delays or other unforeseen issues with such activities, the cost of such activities will almost certainly increase and the revenue from sales, if any, of Natural Plastic and the distribution of profits, if any, to us will be delayed. We may not be able to develop manufacturing capacity sufficient to meet demand in an economical manner or at all. We cannot assure you that we will have the necessary funds to finance the development of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility or that ADM will pay its share of the joint venture, or that we will be able to develop this manufacturing infrastructure in a timely or economical manner, or at all. Our 24 collaborative partners could experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. Also, the expansion of a commercial-scale manufacturing facility is complex and expensive. If demand for Natural Plastic increases beyond the scope of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility being built to serve the Telles joint venture company, we may incur significant expenses in the expansion and/or construction of manufacturing facilities and increases in personnel in order to increase manufacturing capacity. We may not achieve market acceptance of our products. We do not currently have customers for commercial quantities of any of our products. Market acceptance of our products will depend on numerous factors, many of which are outside of our control, including among others: · public acceptance of such products; · ability to produce products that offer functionality comparable or superior to existing or new polymer products; · our ability to produce products fit for their intended purpose, e.g., the ability of Natural Plastic to resist biodegradation for a certain period of time in particular environments; · the willingness and speed at which potential customers qualify Natural Plastics for use in their products; · pricing of our products compared to competitive products; · the strategic reaction of companies that market competitive products; · our reliance on third parties who support or control distribution channels; and · general market conditions. Our customer prospects are currently evaluating and performing tests on our plastics prior to making any large-scale purchase decisions. We may not be able to successfully demonstrate that our plastics have properties comparable or superior to those of environmentally sustainable competitors or similar to conventional petrochemical-based plastics. There can be no assurance that products based on our technologies will be perceived as being comparable or superior to existing products or new products being developed by competing companies or that such products will otherwise be accepted by consumers. The market for our products may not be willing to support premium prices to purchase environmentally sustainable plastics. If there is not broad market acceptance of our products, we may not generate significant revenues. We have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities, which may make the commercialization of our products difficult. We currently have limited marketing and sales experience and capabilities and virtually no distribution experience or capabilities. We will, in some instances, rely significantly on sales, marketing and distribution arrangements with our collaborative partners and other third parties. For example, we will rely on ADM Polymer to participate in and execute important aspects of the distribution of Natural Plastic manufactured by ADM and we will use the ADM client base for marketing purposes. Our future revenues will be materially dependent upon the success of the efforts of these third parties and our ability to augment our own resources by identifying and hiring new employees. If we are unable to develop or obtain access to sales and marketing expertise, sales of our products, if any, may be adversely affected. 25 We rely heavily on ADM and will rely heavily on future collaborative partners. An important component of our current business plan is to enter into strategic partnerships with large corporations: · to provide capital, equipment and facilities, · to provide expertise in performing certain manufacturing and logistical activities, · to provide funding for research and development programs, product development programs and commercialization activities, · to provide access to raw materials, and · to support or provide sales and marketing services. The strategic alliance with ADM is an example of our implementation of this strategy. These arrangements with collaborative partners are, and will continue to be, critical to our success in manufacturing our products and selling such products profitably. ADM Polymer, a subsidiary of ADM, and, we anticipate, our other future collaborative partners, will be permitted by contract to terminate their agreements with us for no reason and on limited notice. We and ADM have the ability to terminate the Commercial Alliance Agreement with 30 days notice if, based upon a change in circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the other party, the projected financial return from the commercial alliance is deemed by the other party to be either too uncertain or inadequate. We and ADM also have the ability to terminate the Commercial Alliance Agreement with 90 days notice in the case of a breach by the other party. We cannot guarantee that any of these relationships will be entered into, or if entered into, will continue. Failure to make or maintain these arrangements or a delay or failure in a collaborative partner’s performance under any such arrangements would have a materially adverse affect on our business and financial condition. We cannot control our collaborative partners’ performance or the resources they devote to our programs. We may not always agree with our partners nor will we have control of our partners’ activities on behalf of any alliance. The performance of our programs may be adversely affected and programs may be delayed or terminated or we may have to use funds, personnel, equipment, facilities and other resources that we have not budgeted to undertake certain activities on our own as a result of these disagreements. Performance issues, program delay or termination or unbudgeted use of our resources may have a materially adverse affect our business and financial condition. Disputes may arise between us and a collaborative partner and may involve the issue of which of us owns the technology and other intellectual property that is developed during a collaboration or other issues arising out of the collaborative agreements. Such a dispute could delay the program on which we are working or could prevent us from obtaining the right to commercially exploit such developments. It could also result in expensive arbitration or litigation, which may not be resolved in our favor. Our collaborative partners could merge with or be acquired by another company or experience financial or other setbacks unrelated to our collaboration that could, nevertheless, adversely affect us. Our success will be influenced by the price of petroleum, the primary ingredient in conventional petrochemical-based plastics, relative to corn sugar, the primary ingredient in our products. Our success will be influenced by the cost of Natural Plastic relative to petrochemical-based plastics. The cost of petrochemical-based plastic is in part based on the price of petroleum. Our products are primarily manufactured using corn sugar, an agricultural feedstock. ADM currently supplies all required agricultural feedstock as part of our strategic alliance. Over the past 3 years, the prices of petroleum and corn have diverged dramatically. Recently, the price of corn has increased. If the price of corn or corn sugar were to dramatically increase while the price of petroleum decreased, we may not be able to produce 26 Natural Plastic on a cost effective basis relative to petrochemical-based plastics. While we expect to be able to command a premium price for our environmentally sustainable products, a material decrease in the cost of conventional petrochemical-based plastics may require a reduction in the prices of our products for them to remain attractive in the marketplace. In such instance, if corn prices remain stable or increase, we may be required to price our products at a level that causes us to operate at a loss. Our future profitability is uncertain, and we have a limited operating history on which you can base your evaluation of our business. We have had net operating losses since being founded in 1992. At December 31, 2006, our accumulated deficit was approximately $66 million. Since 1992, we have been engaged solely in research and development activities. As a part of our strategic alliance, ADM Polymer has only recently begun construction of the commercial scale Commercial Manufacturing Facility for Natural Plastic. We currently expect the Commercial Manufacturing Facility to become operational in 2008, and until such time, we will not have significant revenues from sales of Natural Plastic. Because we have a limited history at commercial operations and we operate in a rapidly evolving industry, we cannot be certain that we will generate sufficient revenue to operate our business and become profitable. Our product revenue will be dependent on the successful completion of the scale-up and commercialization of Natural Plastic through our strategic alliance with ADM, through other partnerships or joint ventures, if any, with third parties and separately for our own account. In addition, if we are unable to develop, commercialize and further advance technologies relating to the production of Natural Plastic in crops and other products, or if sales of such Natural Plastic or products are not significant, we could have significant losses in the future due to ongoing expenses to perform research and product development and our inability to obtain additional research and development funding in connection with such products. In addition, the amount we spend will impact our ability to become profitable and this will depend, in part, on: · the progress of our research and development programs for the production of Natural Plastic in crops and for other products; · the cost of building, operating and maintaining manufacturing and research facilities; · the number of products that we attempt to develop; · the time and expense required to prosecute, enforce and/or challenge patent and other intellectual property rights; · how competing technological and market developments affect our proposed products; and · the cost of obtaining licenses required to use technology owned by others for proprietary products and otherwise. We may not achieve any or all of these goals and, thus, we cannot provide assurances that we will ever be profitable or achieve significant revenues. If we fail to achieve profitability or significant revenues, the market price of our common stock will likely decrease. 27 We may need to secure additional funding and may be unable to raise additional capital on favorable terms or at all. We have consumed substantial amounts of capital since our inception in 1992 for our research and development activities. Although we believe our existing cash resources of approximately $122 million as of December 31, 2006, plus anticipated payments from the strategic alliance with ADM of approximately $1.6 million per calendar quarter, will be sufficient to fund our anticipated cash requirements for at least the next 24 months, we may require significant additional financing in the future to fund our operations. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through the use of existing cash resources and through strategic collaborations, governmental research grants, and/or by licensing all or a portion of our programs or technology. We may also seek additional funds through private or public sales of our securities, or debt financings. If funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of, or eliminate one or more of our research or development programs or our commercialization efforts. Further, additional funding may significantly dilute existing stockholders. If we lose key personnel or are unable to attract and retain necessary talent, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products under development. We are highly dependent on James Barber, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Oliver Peoples, our Chief Scientific Officer and Johan van Walsem, our VP of Manufacturing, Development and Operations. Dr. Barber possesses unique talent and experience relating to our business and the markets in which we operate. Dr. Peoples and Mr. van Walsem possess unique information related to our research and manufacturing operations. Dr. Peoples is one of our founders and has led and directed all of our scientific research and development programs. Dr. Peoples has such particular knowledge in the research, development and intellectual property aspects in connection with the production of Natural Plastic, that in the case of the loss of his services we would be unable to readily find a suitable replacement with comparable knowledge and experience necessary to further our research and development programs. Mr. van Walsem directs our manufacturing operation and has been instrumental in developing manufacturing know-how sufficient to operate our pre-commercial scale manufacturing plant. Mr. van Walsem has also been directing the design of the commercial scale Commercial Manufacturing Facility with ADM. The loss of Mr. van Walsem’s services to us would be difficult to readily replace and may adversely impact the achievement of our objectives. Our success depends largely upon the continued service of our management and scientific staff and our ability to attract, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, scientific, management, regulatory compliance and marketing and sales personnel. Because of the unique talents and experience of many of our scientific, engineering and technical staff, competition for our personnel is intense. The loss of key personnel or our inability to hire and retain personnel who have required expertise and skills could materially adversely affect our research and development efforts and our business. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information and may not adequately protect our intellectual property, which could limit our ability to compete. Because we operate in the highly technical field of biotechnology discovery and development, we rely in part on trade secret protection in order to protect our proprietary technology and processes. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We enter into confidentiality and intellectual property assignment agreements with our employees, consultants, outside scientific collaborators, and other advisors. These agreements generally require that the other party keep confidential and not disclose to third parties all confidential information developed by the party or made known to the party by us during the course of the party’s relationship with us. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the party in the course of rendering services to us will be our exclusive property. However, these agreements may not 28 be honored and may not effectively assign intellectual property rights to us. Enforcing a claim that a party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets is difficult, expensive and time consuming and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secrets. The failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive position. Intellectual property protection for our products is important and uncertain. Our commercial success will depend in part on our obtaining and maintaining patent, trade secret and trademark protection of our technologies in the United States and other jurisdictions, as well as successfully enforcing this intellectual property and defending this intellectual property against third-party challenges. We will only be able to protect our technologies from unauthorized use by third parties by keeping them as trade secrets or to the extent that valid and enforceable intellectual property protections, such as patents, cover them. In particular, we place considerable emphasis on obtaining patent protection for significant new technologies, products and processes in the United States and in foreign jurisdictions where we plan to use such technologies. Legal means may afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep our competitive advantage. Foreign jurisdictions may not afford the same protections as U.S. law, and we cannot ensure that foreign patent applications will have the same scope of the U.S. patents. Our patent position involves complex legal and factual questions. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third-party patents. For example: · we or our licensors might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; · we or our licensors might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; · others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies not encompassed by our patents; · our issued patents and issued patents of our licensors may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged and invalidated by third parties; and · we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Patents may not be issued for any pending or future pending patent applications owned by or licensed to us, and claims allowed under any issued patent or future issued patent owned or licensed by us may not be valid or sufficiently broad to protect our technologies. Moreover, we may be unable to protect certain of our intellectual property in the United States or in foreign countries. Any issued patents owned by or licensed to us now or in the future may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, and the rights under such patents may not provide us with competitive advantages. For example, P&G filed a nullity action in the Federal Patent Court in Munich, Germany, against the German equivalent of one of our patents covering a method of producing some types of biopolymers. In addition, competitors may design around our technology or develop competing technologies. We could incur substantial costs to bring suits in which we may assert our patent rights against others or defend ourselves in suits brought against us. An unfavorable outcome of any such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. We also rely on trade secrets to protect our technology, especially where we believe patent protection is not appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are difficult to protect. We vigorously pursue confidentiality agreements and contractual provisions with our collaborators, potential customers, employees, and consultants to protect our trade secrets and proprietary know-how. These agreements may be breached and we may not have adequate remedies for such breach. While we use reasonable efforts to protect our trade secrets, our employees, consultants, contractors or scientific and other advisors, our potential customers, or our strategic partners may unintentionally or willfully disclose our proprietary 29 information to competitors. If we were to enforce a claim that a third party had illegally obtained and was using our trade secrets, our enforcement efforts would be expensive and time consuming, and the outcome would be unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States are sometimes unwilling to protect trade secrets. Moreover, if our competitors independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, it will be more difficult for us to enforce our rights and our business could be harmed. If we are not able to defend the patent or trade secret protection position of our technologies, then we will not be able to exclude competitors from developing or marketing competing technologies, and we may not generate enough revenues from product sales to justify the cost of development of our technologies and to achieve or maintain profitability. We also rely on trademarks to establish a market identity for our products. We currently have five registered trademarks in the United States and five pending trademark applications filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, and we expect to file additional applications as new trademarks are selected for our products. To maintain the value of our trademarks, we might have to file lawsuits against third parties to prevent them from using trademarks confusingly similar to or dilutive of our registered or unregistered trademarks. Also, we might not obtain registrations for our pending or future trademark applications, and might have to defend our registered trademark and pending trademark applications from challenge by third parties. Enforcing or defending our registered and unregistered trademarks might result in significant litigation costs and damages, including the inability to continue using certain trademarks. In the event that we are unable to continue using certain trademarks, we may be forced to rebrand our products, which could result in the loss of brand recognition, and could require us to devote resources to advertise and market brands. A substantial portion of the technology used in our business is owned by or subject to retained rights of third parties. We have, and expect to have in the future, research and development agreements with academic institutions that retain rights to the developed intellectual property. The academic institutions generally retain ownership rights over the technology for use in non-commercial academic and research fields, including in some cases the right to license the technology to third parties for use in those fields. It is difficult to monitor and enforce such noncommercial academic and research uses, and we cannot predict whether the third party licensees would comply with the use restrictions of these licenses. We could incur substantial expenses to enforce our rights against such licensees. In addition, even though the rights that academic institutions obtain are generally limited to the noncommercial academic and research fields, they may obtain rights to commercially exploit developed intellectual property in limited instances. Furthermore, under research and development agreements with academic institutions, our rights to intellectual property developed thereunder are not always certain, but instead may be in the form of an option to obtain license rights to such intellectual property. If we fail to timely exercise our option rights and/or we are unable to negotiate a license agreement, the academic institution may offer a license to the developed intellectual property to third parties for commercial purposes. Any such commercial exploitation could adversely affect our competitive position and have a material adverse effect on our business. A substantial portion of our core technology is protected by patents that are owned by Massachusetts Institute of Technology, or MIT, and exclusively licensed to us for the life of the patents. The MIT license covers 13 issued U.S. patents, and numerous foreign counterparts. We cannot be certain that our right to use these patents will continue. MIT has the right to terminate this exclusive license for our nonpayment of royalties or our material breach which remains uncured. Although no material licenses are due to expire in the near future, the expiration of patents licensed from third parties or the termination of those licenses could have a material adverse effect on our business. 30 Some of our patents may cover inventions that were conceived or first reduced to practice under, or in connection with, U.S. government contracts or other federal funding agreements. With respect to inventions conceived or first reduced to practice under such federal funding agreements, the U.S. government may retain a nonexclusive, non-transferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States the invention throughout the world. In addition, if we fail to comply with our reporting obligations or to adequately exploit the developed intellectual property under these federal funding agreements, the U.S. government may obtain additional rights to the developed intellectual property, including the right to take title to any patents filed by us or to permit others to commercially exploit the intellectual property itself. Furthermore, our ability to exclusively license or assign the intellectual property developed under these federal funding agreements to third parties may be limited or subject to the U.S. government’s approval or oversight. These limitations could have a significant impact on the commercial value of the developed intellectual property. Third parties may claim that we infringe their intellectual property, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expense as a result. Various U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in areas relevant to Natural Plastic and fuels, their compositions, formulations and uses, and processes for their production. Such third parties may claim that we infringe their patents. For example, we are aware of competitors with patents relating to Natural Plastic. Such competitors may allege that we infringe these patents. There could also be existing patents of which we are not aware that our technologies may inadvertently infringe. In addition, because patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period of time after they are filed, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our technologies may infringe. If third parties assert claims against us alleging that we infringe their patents or other intellectual property rights, we could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources in defending these claims, and the defense of these claims could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, if third parties assert claims against us and we are unsuccessful in defending against these claims, these third parties may be awarded substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief against us, which could effectively block our ability to make, use, sell, distribute, or market our products and services in the United States or abroad. We cannot currently predict whether a third party will assert a claim against us, or pursue infringement litigation against us; nor can we predict the ultimate outcome of any such potential claims or litigation. In the event that a claim relating to intellectual property is asserted against us, or third parties not affiliated with us hold pending or issued patents that relate to our products or technology, we may seek licenses to such intellectual property or challenge those patents. However, we may be unable to obtain these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all, and our challenge of the patents may be unsuccessful. Our failure to obtain the necessary licenses or other rights could prevent the sale, manufacture, or distribution of some of our products and, therefore, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, our business could be adversely affected. While historically we have focused the majority of our efforts on research and development of processes to produce Natural Plastic using our fermentation platform, we plan to grow by allocating additional resources to developing marketing and sales expertise and resources, entering into additional collaborations with strategic partners, adding personnel with specific technological experience, and developing and commercializing additional products, such as Natural Plastic using our switchgrass technology platform, and biological production of other chemicals and chemical intermediates from renewable resources. Our ability to grow in this manner will require that we manage a diverse range of relationships and projects, expand our personnel resources and facilities, and broaden our geographic presence. Our inability to do any of these could prevent us from successfully implementing our growth strategy, and our business could be adversely affected. 31 We believe that sustained growth at a higher rate will place a strain on our management, as well as on our other human resources. To manage this growth, we must continue to attract and retain qualified management, professional, scientific and technical and operating personnel. If we are unable to grow at the required rate, we may be unable to staff and manage projects adequately. This may slow the development process, and result in the commercialization of fewer products or compromise the quality of our work. We may not be successful in identifying market needs for new technologies and developing new products to meet those needs. The success of our business model depends on our ability to correctly identify market opportunities for biologically produced plastics, fuels and chemicals. We intend to identify new market needs, but we may not always have success in doing so, in part because customers may perceive risks in adopting new materials, like Natural Plastic, for use with existing products and because the markets for new materials and other products are not well-developed. The materials and manufacturing technologies we research and develop are new and are steadily changing and advancing. The products that are derived from these technologies may not be applicable or compatible with the demands in existing markets. Our existing products and technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete if our competitors adapt more quickly than we do to new technologies and changes in customers’ requirements. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify new opportunities as they arise for our products since future applications of any given product may not be readily determinable, and we cannot reasonably estimate the size of any markets that may develop. If we are not able to successfully develop new products, we may be unable to increase our product revenues. Our products are made using genetically-engineered systems which may be, or may be perceived as being, harmful to human health or the environment. Natural Plastic is a new material produced from genetically-engineered microbes and in the future may be produced in genetically-engineered crops. Some countries have adopted regulations prohibiting or limiting the production of genetically-engineered crops. Regulations or prohibitions on the production of genetically-engineered crops could harm our business and impair our ability to produce Natural Plastic in that manner. The subject of genetic engineering of crops and other species has received negative publicity and has aroused public debate. Government authorities could, for social or other purposes, prohibit or regulate the development and use of genetically-engineered organisms of products therefrom. Social concerns could adversely affect acceptance of our potential products. Governmental regulation or negative publicity could reduce or eliminate market demand for our products which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We face and will face substantial competition in several different markets that may adversely affect our results of operations. The plastics, fuels and chemicals that we have developed or plan to develop will compete with other technologically innovative products as well as conventional petroleum-based plastics, fuels and chemicals. We face and will face substantial competition from a variety of companies in the biodegradable, renewable resource-based plastic segment, within which there are three distinct technologies: PHA, PLA and starch-based biodegradables. While some of our competitors’ existing products that are produced from renewable feedstocks do not have the range of properties that Natural Plastics offer, such products are, nonetheless, suitable for use in a range of products at a price which may be lower than our premium priced product offerings. Our competitors include, but are not limited to, Kaneka in the PHA plastic segment, Cargill, 32 Mitsui Chemical, Toyota, Novamont, and Stanelco in PLA and starch-based biodegradables, as well as all of the producers of petrochemical-based plastics. Many of our competitors have longer operating histories, greater name recognition, larger customer bases and significantly greater financial, sales and marketing, manufacturing, distribution, technical and other resources than we do. These competitors may be able to adapt more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. In addition, current and potential competitors have established or may establish financial or strategic relationships among themselves or with existing or potential customers or other third parties. Accordingly, new competitors or alliances among competitors could emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against current or new competitors. We are subject to significant foreign and domestic government regulations, including environmental and health and safety regulations, and failure to comply with these regulations could harm our business. Our current and planned activities involve the use of a broad range of materials that are, or may be, considered hazardous under applicable laws and regulations. Accordingly, we are subject to a number of foreign, federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to health and safety, protection of the environment, and the storage, use, disposal of, and exposure to, hazardous materials and wastes. We could incur costs, fines and civil and criminal penalties, personal injury and third party property damage claims, or could be required to incur substantial investigation or remediation costs if we were to violate or become liable under environmental, health and safety laws. Moreover, a failure to comply with environmental laws could result in fines and the revocation of environmental permits, which could prevent us, or our strategic partners, from conducting business. Liability under environmental laws can be joint and several and without regard to fault. There can be no assurance that violations of environmental health and safety laws will not occur in the future as a result of the inability to obtain permits, human error, equipment failure or other causes. Environmental laws could become more stringent over time, imposing greater compliance costs and increasing risks and penalties associated with violations, which could harm our business. Accordingly, violations of present and future environmental laws could restrict our ability to expand facilities, pursue certain technologies, and could require us to acquire costly equipment, or to incur potentially significant costs to comply with environmental regulations. Compliance with foreign, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations represents a small part of our present budget. If we fail to comply with any such laws or regulations, however, a government entity may levy a fine on us or require us to take costly measures to ensure compliance. Any such fine or expenditure may adversely affect our business activities, financial condition, or results of operations. We cannot predict the extent to which future legislation and regulation could cause us to incur additional operating expenses, capital expenditures, or restrictions and delays in the development of our products and properties. Our government grants may subject us to government audits, which could materially harm our business and results of operations. We may be subject to audits by the U.S. federal government as part of routine audits of our activities funded by our government grants. As part of an audit, these agencies may review our performance, cost structures and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. If any of our costs are found to be allocated improperly, the costs may not be reimbursed and any costs already reimbursed for such contract may have to be refunded. Accordingly, an audit could result in a material adjustment to our revenue and results of operations. Moreover, if an audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions. 33 We face risks associated with our international business. We expect to establish, and to expand over time, international commercial operations and activities. Such international business operations are subject to a variety of risks associated with conducting business internationally, including: · changes in or interpretations of foreign regulations that may adversely affect our ability to sell our products, perform services or repatriate profits to the United States; · the imposition of tariffs; · economic or political instability in foreign countries; · imposition of limitations on or increase of withholding and other taxes on remittances and other payments by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures; · conducting business in places where business practices and customs are unfamiliar and unknown; · the imposition of restrictive trade policies; · the imposition of inconsistent laws or regulations; · imposition of limitations on genetically-engineered crops and organisms and the production or sale of products made from such crops and organisms in foreign countries; · the imposition or increase of investment requirements and other restrictions or requirements by foreign governments; · uncertainties relating to foreign laws and legal proceedings; · having to comply with a variety of U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; · having to comply with U.S. export control regulations and policies that restrict our ability to communicate with non-U.S. employees and supply foreign affiliates and customers; and · having to comply with licensing requirements. We do not know the impact that these regulatory, geopolitical, and other factors may have on our international business in the future. If we are unable to develop, implement and maintain appropriate internal controls we will not be able to comply with applicable regulatory requirements imposed on reporting companies. Beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2007, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to include an internal control report with our annual report on Form 10-K. That report must include management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of the end of the fiscal year. Additionally, beginning with our annual report for the year ending December 31, 2007, our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to issue a report on management’s assessment of our internal control over financial reporting and a report on their evaluation of the operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. Our business operations are relatively small and, as a result, we have operated with very limited staffing of key accounting and administrative functions. Such limited staffing made it difficult for us to segregate certain accounting functions. As our business matures from solely research and development into commercial operations, we will need additional accounting and finance staffing to support our expanding business operations and to comply with the additional reporting and regulatory requirements of being a public company. We plan on hiring additional personnel in our accounting and finance function in order to have sufficient staffing levels. Our development, implementation and maintenance of appropriate 34 internal controls will depend materially on our successful hiring and retention of key senior accounting personnel with appropriate technical accounting expertise. We have recently begun a formal evaluation, documentation and analysis of our internal controls. During the course of our evaluation, documentation and testing of our internal controls, we may identify areas requiring improvement, and may have to design enhanced processes and controls to address issues identified through this review. Remedying any deficiencies, significant deficiencies or material weaknesses that we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify may require us to incur significant costs and expend significant time and management resources. While we believe that we will be able to successfully implement internal controls, we cannot assure you that any of the measures we implement to remedy any such deficiencies will effectively mitigate or remedy such deficiencies or weaknesses. Investors could lose confidence in our financial reports, and our stock price may be adversely affected, if our internal control over financial reporting is found not to be effective by management or by an independent registered public accounting firm or if we make disclosure of existing or potential significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in those controls. Changes in, or interpretations of, accounting rules and regulations, such as revenue recognition and expensing of stock options, could result in unfavorable accounting treatment or require us to change our compensation policies. Accounting methods and policies, including policies governing revenue recognition, expenses, and accounting for stock options are subject to review, interpretation and guidance from relevant accounting authorities, including the SEC. Changes to, or interpretations of, accounting methods or policies in the future may require us to reclassify, restate or otherwise change or revise our financial statements, including those contained in this Form 10-K. Prior to January 1, 2006, we were not required to record stock-based compensation charges if the employee’s stock option exercise price equaled or exceeded the fair market value of our common stock at the date of grant. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, we accounted for share-based payments to employees through December 31, 2005 using the intrinsic value method under APB Opinion No. 25 and, as such, generally recognized no compensation cost for employee stock options. The effect of adopting SFAS No. 123R for the twelve months ended December 31, 2006 was an increase in net loss by approximately $1.9 million and a $0.34 increase to basic and diluted net loss per share. The total compensation cost related to these options not yet recognized in the financial statements is approximately $4.5 million to be expensed over the next 3.6 years. The actual impact of SFAS No. 123R in future periods will depend on levels of share-based payments granted in the future and the assumptions for the variables which impact the computation. We rely heavily on stock options to motivate existing employees and to attract new employees. Since we are now required to expense stock options, we may choose to reduce our reliance on stock options as employee compensation. If we reduce our use of stock options, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees. If we do not reduce our reliance on stock options, our reported losses will increase. Our pre-commercial manufacturing recovery operations are currently conducted at a single location which makes us susceptible to disasters. Our pre-commercial manufacturing recovery operations are currently conducted at a single location in Fort Mill, South Carolina. As part of the strategic alliance with ADM, ADM intends to construct a Commercial Manufacturing Facility at a single location in Clinton, Iowa, where we will initially conduct all of our commercial manufacturing operations. Our headquarters and research and development operations are located at a single facility in Cambridge, Massachusetts. We take precautions to safeguard our 35 facilities, including insurance, health and safety protocols, and off-site storage of critical research results and of computer data. However, a natural disaster, such as a fire, flood or earthquake, could cause substantial delays in our operations, damage or destroy our manufacturing equipment, inventory or development projects, and cause us to incur additional expenses. The insurance we maintain against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters may not be adequate to cover our losses in any particular case. Risks Relating to Owning Our Common Stock An active trading market for our common stock may not be available on a consistent basis to provide stockholder with adequate liquidity. Our stock price may be extremely volatile, and our stockholders could lose a significant part of their investment. Prior to November 10, 2006, there was no public market for our common stock. An active trading market for shares of our common stock may not be sustained on a consistent basis. The public trading price for our common stock will be affected by a number of factors, including: · reported progress of our business and technology development, including construction of the Commercial Manufacturing Facility, relative to investor expectations; · changes in earnings estimates, investors’ perceptions, recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to achieve analysts’ earning estimates; · quarterly variations in our or our competitors’ results of operations; · general market conditions and other factors unrelated to our operating performance or the operating performance of our competitors; · future sales of our common stock; · announcements by us, or our competitors, of acquisitions, new products, significant contracts, commercial relationships or capital commitments; · commencement of, or involvement in, litigation; · any major change in our board of directors or management; · changes in governmental regulations or in the status of our regulatory approvals; · announcements related to patents issued to us or our competitors and to litigation involving our intellectual property; · a lack of, limited, or negative industry or security analyst coverage; · developments in our industry and general economic conditions; and · the other factors described elsewhere in these “Risk Factors.” As a result of these factors, our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares at, or above, their purchase price. In addition, the stock prices of many technology companies have experienced wide fluctuations that have often been unrelated to the operating performance of those companies. The valuations of many biotechnology companies without consistent product revenues and earnings are extraordinarily high based on conventional valuation standards, such as price to earnings and price to sales ratios. These trading prices and valuations may not be sustained. Any negative change in the public’s perception of the prospects of biotechnology companies could depress our stock price regardless of our results of operations. These factors may materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 36 If a substantial number of shares become available for sale and are sold in a short period of time, the market price of our common stock could decline. If our existing stockholders sell a large number of shares of our common stock or the public market perceives that these sales may occur, the market price of our common stock could decline. As of March 1, 2007, we had 20,736,882 shares of common stock outstanding. Of these, approximately 7,844,500 shares sold in the initial public offering or pursuant to a registration statement on Form S-8 are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the federal securities laws, unless purchased by our affiliates. Taking into consideration the effect of the 180-day lock-up agreements that have been entered into by certain of our stockholders, we estimate that approximately 12,892,311 shares of our common stock are available for sale pursuant to Rule 144, Rule 144(k) and Rule 701, as follows: Number of Shares (as of March 1, 2007) 95,452 shares are immediately eligible for sale in the public market without restriction pursuant to Rule 144 (k); 8,198 additional shares eligible for sale in the public market under Rule 144 or Rule 701, subject to volume, manner of sale, and other limitations under those rules 12,195,489 additional shares will become eligible for sale, subject to the provisions of Rule 144, Rule 144(k) or Rule 701, beginning 180 days after November 10, 2006 (subject to extension under certain circumstances), upon the expiration of agreements not to sell such share s entered into between the underwriters and such stockholders; and 593,172 additional shares will be eligible for sale from time to time thereafter upon expiration of their respective one-year holding periods, but could be sold earlier if the holders exercise any available registration rights. Stockholders holding an aggregate of approximately 13,950,315 shares of common stock have rights with respect to the registration of these shares of common stock with the SEC. If we register these shares of common stock, these holders will be able to sell immediately those shares in the public market. Piper Jaffray, on behalf of the underwriters of our initial public offering, may in its sole discretion, at any time without notice, agree to release all or any portion of the shares subject to the lock-up agreements, which would result in more shares being available for sale in the public market at earlier dates. Sales of common stock by existing stockholders in the public market, the availability of these shares for sale, our issuance of securities or the perception that any of these events might occur could materially and adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our directors and management collectively control approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control approximately 34% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders, if they act together, will be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. Other stockholders may have minimal influence over these actions. This concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 37 Our financial results may vary significantly from period to period which may reduce our stock price. Our financial results may fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control, which may cause the market price of our common stock to fall. For these reasons, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of our future performance. Our financial results may be negatively affected by any of the risk factors listed in this “Risk Factors” section and, in particular, the following risks: · failure to estimate or control contract costs; · adverse judgments or settlements in legal disputes; · expenses related to acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures; · other one-time financial charges; · fluctuations due to revenue recognition under strategic alliance agreements. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations”; · failure to produce commercialized products or to find customers for these products; and · that some of our programs are supported by government funding, which is unpredictable. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws and Delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares of our common stock. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: · limitations on the removal of directors; · a classified board of directors so that not all members of our board are elected at one time; · advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; · the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings; · the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; · a supermajority stockholder vote requirement for amending certain provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws; and · the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our by-laws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly-held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. 38 The existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. They could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that our stockholders could receive a premium for their common stock in an acquisition. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, our stockholders’ ability to achieve a return on their investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not currently intend to do so for the foreseeable future. We currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth. Therefore, our stockholders are not likely to receive any dividends on their common stock for the foreseeable future. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable 