Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or future results. Our business is subject to a number of economic risks. Financial markets worldwide experienced extreme disruption in the past five years, including, among other things, extreme volatility in securities prices, severely diminished liquidity and credit availability, rating downgrades of certain investments and declining valuations of others. Governments took unprecedented actions intended to address extreme market conditions such as severely restricted credit and declines in real estate values. Such economic events can recur and can potentially affect businesses such as ours in a number of ways. Tightening of credit in financial markets and a slowing economy adversely affects the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing for significant operations, can result in lower demand for our products and services, and could result in a decrease in or cancellation of orders included in our backlog and adversely affect the collectability of our receivables. Additionally, tightening of credit in financial markets coupled with a slowing economy could negatively impact our cost of capital and ability to grow. Our business is also adversely affected when energy demand declines as a result of lower overall economic activity. Typically, lower energy demand negatively affects commodity prices, which reduces the earnings and cash flow of our E&P and mining customers, reducing their spending and demand for our products and services. These conditions could have an adverse effect on our operating results and our ability to recover our assets at their stated values. Likewise, our suppliers may be unable to sustain their current level of operations, fulfill their commitments and/or fund future operations and obligations, each of which could adversely affect our operations. Strengthening of the rate of exchange for the U.S. Dollar against certain major currencies, such as the Euro, the British Pound and the Canadian and Australian Dollar, could also adversely affect our financial results. Decreased customer expenditure levels will adversely affect our results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to the level of exploration, development and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and gas and mining companies. If our customers' expenditures decline, our business will suffer. The oil and gas and mining industries’ willingness to explore, develop and produce depends largely upon the availability of attractive resource prospects and the prevailing view of future commodity prices. Prices for oil, coal, natural gas, and other minerals are subject to large fluctuations in response to changes in the supply of and demand for these commodities, market uncertainty, and a variety of other factors that are beyond our control. Accordingly, a sudden or long-term decline in commodity pricing would have material adverse effects on our results of operations. Any prolonged reduction in commodity prices will depress levels of exploration, development, and production activity, often reflected as reductions in rig counts, employees or coal production. Additionally, significant new regulatory requirements, including climate change legislation, could have an impact on the demand for and the cost of producing oil, coal and natural gas. Many factors affect the supply of and demand for oil, coal, natural gas and other minerals and, therefore, influence product prices, including: ● the level of drilling activity; ● the level of production; ● the levels of oil and natural gas inventories; ● depletion rates; ● worldwide demand for oil and natural gas; ● the expected cost of finding, developing and producing new reserves; ● delays in major offshore and onshore oil and natural gas field development timetables; 23 ● the level of activity and developments in the Canadian oil sands; ● the level of activity and development in the Australian mining sector; ● the level of demand, particularly from China, for coal and other natural resources produced in Australia; ● the availability of attractive oil and natural gas field prospects, which may be affected by governmental actions or environmental activists which may restrict development; ● the availability of transportation infrastructure for oil, natural gas and coal, refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; ● global weather conditions and natural disasters; ● worldwide economic activity including growth in developing countries, such as China and India; ● national government political requirements, including the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Companies (OPEC) to set and maintain production levels and prices for oil and government policies which could nationalize or expropriate oil and natural gas exploration, production, refining or transportation assets; ● the level of oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries; ● the impact of armed hostilities involving one or more oil producing nations; ● rapid technological change and the timing and extent of development of energy sources, including LNG or other alternative fuels; ● environmental regulation; and ● domestic and foreign tax policies. Due to the cyclical nature of the natural resources industry, our business may be adversely affected by extended periods of low oil, coal or natural gas prices or unsuccessful exploration results which may decrease our customers’ spending and therefore our results. Commodity prices have been and are expected to remain volatile. This volatility causes oil and gas and mining companies and drilling contractors to change their strategies and expenditure levels. Prices of oil, coal and natural gas can be influenced by many factors, including reduced demand due to lower global economic growth, surplus inventory, improved technology such as the hydraulic fracturing of horizontally drilled wells in shale discoveries, access to potentially productive regions and availability of required infrastructure to deliver production to the marketplace. In particular, global demand for both oil and metallurgical coal is, at least partially, dependent on the growth of the Chinese economy. With growth in the Chinese economy, China’s demand for oil and steel increases driving demand for oil and metallurgical coal. Should GDP growth in China slow, demand for these commodities and, correspondingly, our accommodations would fall which would negatively impact our financial results. 24 A significant portion of our business segments support projects that are capital intensive and require several years to generate first production. The economic analyses conducted by exploration and production companies in deepwater, oil sands, Australian mining and LNG investment areas have historically assumed a relatively conservative longer-term price outlook for production from such projects to determine economic viability. Perceptions of lower longer-term commodity prices by these companies can cause our customers to reduce or defer major expenditures given the long-term nature of many large scale development projects which could adversely affect revenues and profitability. In Canada, Western Canadian Select (WCS) crude is the benchmark price for our oil sands accommodations’ customers. Historically, WCS has traded at a discount to West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude. Should the price of WTI decline or the WCS discount to WTI widen further, our oil sands customers may delay additional investments or reduce their spending in the oil sands region. Similarly, the volumes and prices of the mineral products of our customers, including coal and gold, have historically varied significantly and are difficult to predict. The demand for, and price of, these minerals and commodities is highly dependent on a variety of factors, including international supply and demand, the price and availability of alternative fuels, actions taken by governments and global economic and political developments. Mineral and commodity prices have fluctuated in recent years and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. We expect that a material decline in mineral and commodity prices could result in a decrease in the activity of our customers with the possibility that this would materially adversely affect us. No assurance can be given regarding future volumes and/or prices relating to the activities of our customers. We have experienced in the past, and expect to experience in the future, significant fluctuations in operating results based on these changes. Federal legislation and state legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of oil and natural gas wells, which could adversely affect our services. Hydraulic fracturing is an important and commonly used process for the completion of oil and natural gas wells in formations with low permeabilities, such as shale formations, and involves the pressurized injection of water, sand and chemicals into rock formations to stimulate production. Due to concerns raised regarding potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing and fracturing fluids disposal on drinking water and groundwater quality, legislative and regulatory efforts at the federal level and in some states have been initiated in the United States to render permitting, public disclosure and construction and operational compliance requirements for our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers more stringent for hydraulic fracturing. While hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated in the United States by state oil and natural gas commissions, there have been developments indicating that more federal regulatory involvement may occur. For example, the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority pursuant to the federal Safe Drinking Water Act, or SDWA, over certain hydraulic fracturing activities involving the use of diesel fuels and issued revised permitting guidance in February 2014 addressing the performance of such activities using diesel fuels. In addition, from time to time, Congress has considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing in the United States under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, some states have adopted and other states are considering adopting legal requirements that could impose new or more stringent permitting, public disclosure or well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place or manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. In addition, certain governmental reviews in the United States have been conducted or are underway that focus on environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. The White House Council on Environmental Quality is coordinating an administration-wide review of hydraulic fracturing practices. The EPA has commenced a study of the potential environmental effects of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and groundwater and a draft final report drawing conclusions about the potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water resources is expected to be available for public comment and peer review in 2014. Moreover, the EPA is planning to develop effluent limitations for the treatment and discharge of wastewater resulting from hydraulic fracturing activities in 2014. Also, in May 2013, BLM published a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking governing hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian oil and gas leases that would require public disclosure of chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing, confirmation that wells used in fracturing operations meet appropriate construction standards, and development of appropriate plans for managing flowback water that returns to the surface. These ongoing, proposed or any future studies, depending on the results obtained, could spur initiatives to further regulate hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA or other regulatory mechanisms, which events could delay or curtail production of oil and natural gas by exploration and production operators, some of which are performed by our customers, and thus reduce demand for our North American completion products and services. In the event that new or more stringent federal, state or local legal restrictions relating to use of the hydraulic fracturing process in the United States are adopted in areas where our oil and natural gas exploration and production customers operate, those customers could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with requirements relating to permitting, construction, financial assurance, monitoring, recordkeeping, and/or plugging and abandonment, as well as could experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of production or development activities, any or all of which could reduce demand for the products and services of each of our business segments. 25 Our clients in the accommodations business are exposed to a number of unique operating risks which could also adversely affect us. We could be materially adversely affected by disruptions to our accommodations clients’ operations caused by any one of or all of the following singularly or in combination: ● domestic and international pricing and demand for the natural resource being produced at a given project (or proposed project); ● unexpected problems, higher costs and delays during the development, construction and project start-up which may delay the commencement of production; ● unforeseen and adverse climatic, geological, geotechnical, seismic and mining conditions; ● lack of availability of sufficient water or power to maintain their operations; ● water or food quality or safety issues; ● lack of availability or failure of the required infrastructure necessary to maintain or to expand their operations; ● the breakdown or shortage of equipment and labor necessary to maintain their operations; ● risks associated with the natural resources industry being subject to various regulatory approvals. Such risks may include a Government Agency failing to grant an approval or failing to renew an existing approval, or the approval or renewal not being provided by the Government Agency in a timely manner or the Government Agency granting or renewing an approval subject to materially onerous conditions; ● risks to land titles, mining titles and use thereof as a result of native title claims; ● claims by persons living in close proximity to mining projects, which may have an impact on the consents granted; ● interruptions to the operations of our customers caused by industrial accidents or disputes; and ● delays in or failure to commission new infrastructure in timeframes so as not to disrupt customer operations. Our accommodations business is exposed to a number of general risks that could materially adversely affect our assets and liabilities, financial position, profits, prospects and share price. Examples of these general risks which may impact our performance include: ● abnormal stoppages in the production or delivery of the products of our clients due to factors such as industrial disruption, infrastructure failure, war, political or civil unrest; ● cost overruns in the provision of new rooms or in other associated or related capital expenditure; ● higher than budgeted costs associated with the provision of accommodations services; ● our clients not renewing their contracts, renewing them on less favorable terms, or other loss of clients; ● our inability to properly treat and dispose of wastewater at our facilities; ● failure of our clients to meet their obligations under their contracts; ● extreme weather conditions adversely affecting our operations or the operations of our clients; and ● a major disaster at one or more of our large accommodations facilities involving fire, communicable diseases, criminal acts or other events causing significant reputational damage. 26 Development of permanent infrastructure in the Canadian oil sands region, regions of Australia or various U.S. locations where we locate our accommodations assets could negatively impact our accommodations business. Our accommodations business specializes in providing housing and personnel logistics for work forces in remote areas which often lack the infrastructure typically available in nearby towns and cities. If permanent towns, cities and municipal infrastructure develop in the oil sands region of northern Alberta, Canada, or regions of Australia where we locate accommodations villages, then demand for our accommodations could decrease as customer employees move to the region and choose to utilize permanent housing and food services. Construction risks exist in our accommodations business which may adversely affect our results of operations. There are a number of general risks that might impinge on companies involved in the development, construction, manufacture and installation of facilities as a prerequisite to the management of those assets in an operational sense. We might be exposed to these risks from time to time by relying on these corporations and/or other third parties which could include any and/or all of the following: ● the construction activities of our accommodations business are partially dependent on the supply of appropriate construction and development opportunities; ● development approvals, slow decision making by counterparties, complex construction specifications, changes to design briefs, legal issues and other documentation changes may give rise to delays in completion, loss of revenue and cost over-runs which may, in turn, result in termination of accommodation supply contracts; ● other time delays that may arise in relation to construction and development include supply of labor, scarcity of construction materials, lower than expected productivity levels, inclement weather conditions, land contamination, cultural heritage claims, difficult site access or industrial relations issues; ● objections aired by aboriginal or community interests, environment and/or neighborhood groups which may cause delays in the granting or approvals and/or the overall progress of a project; ● where we assume design responsibility, there is a risk that design problems or defects may result in rectification and/or costs or liabilities which we cannot readily recover; and ● there is a risk that we may fail to fulfill our statutory and contractual obligations in relation to the quality of our materials and workmanship, including warranties and defect liability obligations. 27 Our financial results could be adversely impacted by changes in the regulation of offshore oil and natural gas exploration and development activity in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico. In response to an April 2010 fire and explosion aboard the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and resulting oil spill from the Macondo well operated by a third party in ultra-deepwater in the Gulf of Mexico, federal authorities have pursued a series of regulatory initiatives to address the direct impact of that incident and to prevent similar incidents in the future. Beginning in 2010 and continuing through 2013, the federal government, acting through the DOI and its implementing agencies, BOEM and BSEE, has issued various rules, Notices to Lessees or Operators, or NTLs, and temporary drilling moratoria that impose or result in added environmental and safety measures upon exploration and production operators in the Gulf of Mexico. These new regulatory requirements include the following: ● The Environmental NTL, which imposes more stringent requirements for documenting the environmental impacts potentially associated with the drilling of a new offshore well and significantly increases oil spill response requirements; ● The Compliance and Review NTL, which imposes requirements for operators to secure independent reviews of well design, construction and flow intervention processes and also requires certifications of compliance from senior corporate officers; ● The Drilling Safety Rule, which prescribes tighter cementing and casing practices, imposes standards for the use of drilling fluids to maintain well bore integrity and stiffens oversight requirements relating to blowout preventers and their components, including shear and pipe rams; and ● The Workplace Safety Rule, which requires operators to employ a comprehensive SEMS to reduce human and organizational errors as root causes of work-related accidents and offshore spills, which rule was subsequently amended as published on April 5, 2013 (sometimes referred to as the “SEMS II” rule) to require operators to, among other things, establish procedures providing all personnel with “stop work” authority, develop protocols as to whom at the facility has the ultimate operational safety and decision-making authority, and establish an independent auditing regimen whereby facility audits are conducted by a service provider accredited by BSEE that is unaffiliated with the operator. These regulatory initiatives may serve to effectively slow down the pace of drilling and production operations in the Gulf of Mexico due to adjustments in operating procedures and certification practices as well as increased lead times to obtain exploration and production plan reviews, develop drilling applications, and apply for and receive new well permits. These new requirements also increase the cost of preparing permit applications and will increase the cost of each new well, particularly for wells drilled in deeper waters on the Outer Continental Shelf. We could become subject to fines, penalties or orders requiring us to modify or suspend our operations in the Gulf of Mexico if we fail to comply with these requirements. Moreover, if similar oil spill incidents were to occur in the future in the Gulf of Mexico or elsewhere in areas of the United States or foreign locations where we conduct operations, the United States or other countries could elect to issue directives to temporarily cease drilling activities and, in any event, may from time to time issue safety and environmental regulatory initiatives regarding offshore oil and gas exploration and development activities, which any one or more of such events could have a material adverse effect on our volume of business as well as our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. Due to the significant concentration of our accommodations business in the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada and in the Bowen Basin coal region of Queensland, Australia, adverse events in these areas could negatively impact our accommodations business. Because of the concentration of our accommodations business in the oil sands region of Alberta, Canada and in the coal producing region of Queensland, Australia, two relatively small geographic areas, we have increased exposure to political, regulatory, environmental, labor, climate or natural disaster events or developments that could negatively impact our operations and financial results. For example, in 2011, major flooding caused by seasonal rain and a cyclone impacted areas near our Australian villages. Also in 2011, forest fires in northern Alberta impacted areas near our Canadian lodges. Due to our geographic concentration, any adverse events or developments in our operating areas may disproportionately affect our financial results. 28 The cyclical nature of our business and a severe prolonged downturn could negatively affect the value of our goodwill. As of December 31, 2013, goodwill represented approximately 12% of our total assets. We have recorded goodwill because we paid more for some of our businesses that we acquired than the fair market value of the tangible and separately measurable intangible net assets of those businesses. Current accounting standards require a periodic review of goodwill for each of our reporting units (completion services, drilling services, accommodations and offshore products) for impairment in value and a non-cash charge against earnings with a corresponding decrease in stockholders' equity if circumstances, some of which are beyond our control, indicate that the carrying amount will not be recoverable. It is possible that we could recognize additional goodwill impairment losses in the future if, among other factors: ● global economic conditions deteriorate; ● the outlook for future profits and cash flow for any of our reporting units deteriorate as the result of many possible factors, including, but not limited to, increased or unanticipated competition, technology becoming obsolete, further reductions in customer capital spending plans, loss of key personnel, adverse legal or regulatory judgment(s), future operating losses at a reporting unit, downward forecast revisions, or restructuring plans; ● costs of equity or debt capital increase; or ● valuations for comparable public companies or comparable acquisition valuations deteriorate. We do business in international jurisdictions whose political and regulatory environments and compliance regimes differ from those in the United States. A portion of our revenue is attributable to operations in foreign countries. These activities accounted for approximately 50% (7% excluding Canada, the UK and Australia) of our consolidated revenue in the year ended December 31, 2013. Risks associated with our operations in foreign areas include, but are not limited to: ● expropriation, confiscation or nationalization of assets; ● renegotiation or nullification of existing contracts; ● foreign exchange limitations; ● foreign currency fluctuations; ● foreign taxation; ● the inability to repatriate earnings or capital in a tax efficient manner; ● changing political conditions; ● changing foreign and domestic monetary policies; ● social, political, military and economic situations in foreign areas where we do business and the possibilities of war, other armed conflict or terrorist attacks; and ● regional economic downturns. Additionally, in some jurisdictions we are subject to foreign governmental regulations favoring or requiring the awarding of contracts to local contractors or requiring foreign contractors to employ citizens of, or purchase supplies from, a particular jurisdiction. These regulations may adversely affect our ability to compete in such jurisdictions. Our international business operations also include projects in countries where governmental corruption has been known to exist and where our competitors who are not subject to the same ethics-related laws and regulations such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the U.S. and the Bribery Act in the U.K., can gain competitive advantages over us by securing business awards, licenses or other preferential treatment in those jurisdictions using methods that certain ethics-related laws and regulations prohibit us from using. For example, our non-U.S. competitors may not be subject to the anti-bribery restrictions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which make it illegal to give anything of value to foreign officials or employees or agents of nationally-owned oil companies in order to obtain or retain any business or other advantage. While many countries, like the U.S. and the U.K., have adopted anti-bribery statutes, there has not been universal adoption and enforcement of such statutes. Therefore, we may be subject to competitive disadvantages to the extent that our competitors are able to secure business, licenses or other preferential treatment by making payments to government officials and others in positions of influence. 29 The regulatory regimes in some foreign countries may be substantially different than those in the United States, and may be unfamiliar to U.S. investors. Violations of foreign laws could result in monetary and criminal penalties against us or our subsidiaries and could damage our reputation and, therefore, our ability to do business. Exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our U.S. reported results of operations and financial position. In the ordinary course of our business, we enter into purchase and sales commitments that are denominated in currencies that differ from the functional currency used by our operating subsidiaries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can create volatility in our consolidated financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Although we may enter into foreign exchange agreements with financial institutions in order to reduce our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, these transactions, if entered into, will not eliminate that risk entirely. To the extent that we are unable to match revenues received in foreign currencies with expenses paid in the same currency, exchange rate fluctuations could have a negative impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. Additionally, because our consolidated financial results are reported in U.S. dollars, if we generate net revenues or earnings in countries whose currency is not the U.S. dollar, the translation of such amounts into U.S. dollars can result in an increase or decrease in the amount of our net revenues and earnings depending upon exchange rate movements. With respect to our potential exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and devaluations, for the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately 50% of our revenues originated from subsidiaries outside of the U.S. and were denominated in currencies including, among others, the Canadian dollar, the Australian dollar and the pound sterling. As a result, a material decrease in the value of these currencies relative to the U.S. dollar may have a negative impact on our reported revenues, net income and cash flows. Any currency controls implemented by local monetary authorities in countries where we currently operate could also adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to extensive and costly environmental laws and regulations that may require us to take actions that will adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations are significantly affected by stringent foreign, federal, provincial, state and local laws and regulations governing the discharge of substances into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection. We could be exposed to liabilities for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages under these laws and regulations, with certain of these legal requirements imposing strict liability for such damages and costs, even though our conduct was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct resulting in such damage and costs were caused by, prior operators or other third-parties. Environmental laws and regulations are subject to change in the future, possibly resulting in more stringent requirements. If existing regulatory requirements or enforcement policies change, we may be required to make significant unanticipated capital and operating expenditures. Any failure by us to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations may result in governmental authorities taking actions against our business that could adversely impact our operations and financial condition, including the: ● issuance of administrative, civil and criminal penalties; ● denial or revocation of permits or other authorizations; ● reduction or cessation in operations; and ● performance of site investigatory, remedial or other corrective actions. An accidental release of pollutants into the environment may cause us to incur significant costs and liabilities. There is inherent risk of environmental costs and liabilities in our business as a result of our handling of petroleum hydrocarbons, because of air emissions and waste water discharges related to our operations, and due to historical industry operations and waste disposal practices. Certain environmental statutes impose joint and several, strict liability for these costs. For example, an accidental release by us in the performance of services at one of our or our customers’ sites could subject us to substantial liabilities arising from environmental cleanup, restoration costs and natural resource damages, claims made by neighboring landowners and other third parties for personal injury and property damage and fines or penalties for related violations of environmental laws or regulations. We may not be able to recover some or any of these costs from insurance. 30 We may be exposed to certain regulatory and financial risks related to climate change. Climate change is receiving increasing attention from scientists and legislators alike. The debate is ongoing as to the extent to which our climate is changing, the potential causes of any change and its potential impacts. Some attribute global warming to increased levels of greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, which has led to significant legislative and regulatory efforts to limit greenhouse gas emissions. Significant focus is being made on companies that are active producers of depleting natural resources. There are a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to address greenhouse gas emissions, which are in various phases of discussion or implementation. The outcome of foreign, U.S. federal, regional, provincial and state actions to address global climate change could result in a variety of regulatory programs including potential new regulations, additional charges to fund energy efficiency activities, or other regulatory actions. These actions could: ● result in increased costs associated with our operations and our customers' operations; ● increase other costs to our business; ● adversely impact overall drilling activity in the areas in which we operate; ● reduce the demand for carbon-based fuels; and ● reduce the demand for our services. Any adoption of these or similar proposals by foreign, U.S. federal, regional or state governments mandating a substantial reduction in greenhouse gas emissions or imposing a carbon tax on emission of greenhouse gasses could have far-reaching and significant impacts on the energy industry. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address greenhouse gas emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations could result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, and could have a material adverse effect on our business or demand for our services. See "Part I, Item 1. “Business - Government Regulation" for a more detailed description of our climate-change related risks. Currently proposed legislative changes, including changes to tax laws and regulations, could materially, negatively impact the Company by increasing the costs of doing business and decreasing the demand for our products. The current U.S. administration and Congress have proposed several new articles of legislation or legislative and administrative changes, including changes to tax laws and regulations, which could have a material negative effect on our Company. Some of the proposed changes that could negatively impact us are: ● cap and trade system for emissions; ● increased environmental limits on exploration and production activities; ● repeal of expensing of intangible drilling costs; ● increase of the amortization period for geological and geophysical costs to seven years; ● repeal of percentage depletion; ● limits on hydraulic fracturing or disposal of hydraulic fracturing fluids; ● repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction for oil and natural gas production; ● repeal of the passive loss exception for working interests in oil and natural gas properties; ● repeal of the credits for enhanced oil recovery projects and production from marginal wells; ● repeal of the deduction for tertiary injectants; ● changes to the foreign tax credit limitation calculation; and ● changes to healthcare rules and regulations. 31 We are susceptible to seasonal earnings volatility due to adverse weather conditions in our regions of operations. Our operations are directly affected by seasonal differences in weather in the areas in which we operate, most notably in Canada, Australia, the Rocky Mountain region of the United States and the Gulf of Mexico. A portion of our Canadian accommodations operations is conducted during the winter months when the winter freeze in remote regions is required for exploration and production activity to occur. The spring thaw in these frontier regions restricts operations in the spring months and, as a result, adversely affects our operations and our ability to provide services in the second and, to a lesser extent, third quarters of our fiscal year. During the Australian rainy season, generally between the months of November and April, our accommodations operations in Queensland and the northern parts of Western Australia can be affected by cyclones, monsoons and resultant flooding. Severe winter weather conditions in the Rocky Mountain region of the United States can restrict access to work areas for our well site services and accommodations segment customers. Our operations in the Gulf of Mexico are also affected by weather patterns. Weather conditions in the Gulf Coast region generally result in higher drilling activity in the spring, summer and fall months with the lowest activity in the winter months. As a result of these seasonal differences, full year results are not likely to be a direct multiple of any particular quarter or combination of quarters. In addition, summer and fall drilling activity can be restricted due to hurricanes and other storms prevalent in the Gulf of Mexico and along the Gulf Coast. We are exposed to risks relating to subcontractors’ performance in some of our projects. In many cases, we subcontract the performance of portions of our operations to subcontractors. While we seek to obtain appropriate indemnities and guarantees from these subcontractors, we remain ultimately responsible for the performance of our subcontractors. Industrial disputes, natural disasters, financial failure or default or inadequate performance in the provision of services, or the inability to provide services by such subcontractors has the potential to materially adversely affect us. Our inability to control the inherent risks of identifying, acquiring and integrating businesses that we may acquire, including any related increases in debt or issuances of equity securities, could adversely affect our operations. Acquisitions have been, and our management believes acquisitions will continue to be, a key element of our growth strategy. We may not be able to identify and acquire acceptable acquisition candidates on favorable terms in the future. We may be required to incur substantial indebtedness to finance future acquisitions and also may issue equity securities in connection with such acquisitions. Such additional debt service requirements could impose a significant burden on our results of operations and financial condition. The issuance of additional equity securities could result in significant dilution to stockholders. 32 We expect to gain certain business, financial and strategic advantages as a result of business combinations we undertake, including synergies and operating efficiencies. Our forward-looking statements assume that we will successfully integrate our business acquisitions and realize these intended benefits. An inability to realize expected strategic advantages as a result of the acquisition would negatively affect the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Additional risks we could face in connection with acquisitions include: ● retaining key employees of acquired businesses; ● retaining and attracting new customers of acquired businesses; ● retaining supply and distribution relationships key to the supply chain; ● increased administrative burden; ● developing our sales and marketing capabilities; ● managing our growth effectively; ● potential impairment resulting from the overpayment for an acquisition; ● integrating operations; ● managing tax and foreign exchange exposure; ● operating a new line of business; ● increased logistical problems common to large, expansive operations; and ● inability to pursue and protect patents covering acquired technology. Additionally, an acquisition may bring us into businesses we have not previously conducted and expose us to additional business risks that are different from those we have previously experienced. If we fail to manage any of these risks successfully, our business could be harmed. Our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly following an acquisition, and shareholders of the Company may not have the opportunity to evaluate the economic, financial and other relevant information that we will consider in evaluating future acquisitions. We may not have adequate insurance for potential liabilities and our insurance may not cover certain liabilities, including litigation risks. Our operations are subject to many hazards. In the ordinary course of business, we become the subject of various claims, lawsuits and administrative proceedings seeking damages or other remedies concerning our commercial operations, products, employees and other matters, including occasional claims by individuals alleging exposure to hazardous materials as a result of our products or operations. Some of these claims relate to the activities of businesses that we have sold, and some relate to the activities of businesses that we have acquired, even though these activities may have occurred prior to our acquisition of such businesses. We maintain insurance to cover many of our potential losses, and we are subject to various self-retentions and deductibles under our insurance policies. It is possible, however, that a judgment could be rendered against us in cases in which we could be uninsured and beyond the amounts that we currently have reserved or anticipate incurring for such matters. Even a partially uninsured or underinsured claim, if successful and of significant size, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or consolidated financial position. We also face the following other risks related to our insurance coverage: ● we may not be able to continue to obtain insurance on commercially reasonable terms; ● we may be faced with types of liabilities that will not be covered by our insurance, such as damages from environmental contamination or terrorist attacks; ● the counterparties to our insurance contracts may pose credit risks; and ● we may incur losses from interruption of our business that exceed our insurance coverage. 33 We depend on several significant customers in each of our business segments, and the loss of one or more such customers or the inability of one or more such customers to meet their obligations to us could adversely affect our results of operations. We depend on several significant customers in each of our business segments. The majority of our customers operate in the energy or mining industry. For a more detailed explanation of our customers for each of our business segments, see “Item 1. Business.” The loss of any one of our largest customers in any of our business segments or a sustained decrease in demand by any of such customers could result in a substantial loss of revenues and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, the concentration of customers in two industries may impact our overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that customers may be similarly affected by changes in economic and industry conditions. While we perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers, we do not generally require collateral in support of our trade receivables. As a result of our customer concentration, risks of nonpayment and nonperformance by our counterparties are a concern in our business. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers. Many of our customers finance their activities through cash flow from operations, the incurrence of debt or the issuance of equity. In an economic downturn, commodity prices typically decline, and the credit markets and availability of credit could be constrained. Additionally, many of our customers’ equity values could decline. The combination of lower cash flow due to commodity prices, a reduction in borrowing bases under reserve-based credit facilities and the lack of available debt or equity financing may result in a significant reduction in our customers’ liquidity and ability to pay or otherwise perform on their obligations to us. Furthermore, some of our customers may be highly leveraged and subject to their own operating and regulatory risks, which increases the risk that they may default on their obligations to us. The inability or failure of our significant customers to meet their obligations to us or their insolvency or liquidation may adversely affect our financial results. Our common stock price has been volatile, and we expect it to continue to remain volatile in the future. The market price of common stock of companies engaged in the oil and gas services industry has been highly volatile. Likewise, the market price of our common stock has varied significantly (2013 low sales price of $71.28 per share; 2013 high sales price of $113.64 per share) in the past, and we expect it to continue to remain highly volatile given the cyclical nature of our industry. We may assume contractual risks in developing, manufacturing and delivering products in our offshore products business segment. Many of our products from our offshore products segment are ordered by customers under frame agreements or project specific contracts. In some cases these contracts stipulate a fixed price for the delivery of our products and impose liquidated damages or late delivery fees if we do not meet specific customer deadlines. In addition, some customer contracts stipulate consequential damages payable, generally as a result of our gross negligence or willful misconduct. The final delivered products may also include customer and third-party supplied equipment, the delay of which can negatively impact our ability to deliver our products on time at our anticipated profitability. In certain cases these orders include new technology or unspecified design elements. In some cases we may not be fully or properly compensated for the cost to develop and design the final products, negatively impacting our profitability on the projects. In addition, our customers, in many cases, request changes to the original design or bid specifications for which we may not be fully or properly compensated. As is customary for our offshore products segment, we agree to provide products under fixed-price contracts, typically assuming responsibility for cost overruns. Our actual costs and any gross profit realized on these fixed-price contracts may vary from the initially expected contract economics. There is inherent risk in the estimation process including significant unforeseen technical and logistical challenges or longer than expected lead times. A fixed-price contract may prohibit our ability to mitigate the impact of unanticipated increases in raw material prices (including the price of steel) through increased pricing. In fulfilling some contracts, we provide limited warranties for our products. Although we estimate and record a provision for potential warranty claims, repair or replacement costs under warranty provisions in our contracts could exceed the estimated cost to cure the claim which could be material to our financial results. We utilize percentage-of-completion accounting, depending on the size and length of a project, and variations from estimated contract performance could have a significant impact on our reported operating results as we progress toward completion of major jobs. 34 Backlog in our offshore products segment is subject to unexpected adjustments and cancellations and is, therefore, an imperfect indicator of our future revenues and earnings. The revenues projected in our offshore products segment backlog may not be realized or, if realized, may not result in profits. Because of potential changes in the scope or schedule of our customers’ projects, we cannot predict with certainty when or if backlog will be realized. In addition, even where a project proceeds as scheduled, it is possible that contracted parties may default and fail to pay amounts owed to us. Material delays, cancellations or payment defaults could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Reductions in our backlog due to cancellations by customers or for other reasons would adversely affect, potentially to a material extent, the revenues and earnings we actually receive from contracts included in our backlog. Some of the contracts in our backlog are cancelable by the customer, subject to the payment of termination fees and/or the reimbursement of our costs incurred. We typically have no contractual right to the total revenues reflected in our backlog once a project is cancelled. If we experience significant project terminations, suspensions or scope adjustments to contracts included in our backlog, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows may be adversely impacted. We might be unable to employ a sufficient number of technical personnel. Many of the products that we sell, especially in our offshore products segment, are complex and highly engineered and often must perform in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to employ and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize and enhance these products. In addition, our ability to expand our operations depends in part on our ability to increase our skilled labor force. During periods of increased activity, the demand for skilled workers is high, and the supply is limited. We have already experienced high demand and increased wages for labor forces serving our accommodations businesses in Canada and Australia. When these events occur, our cost structure increases and our growth potential could be impaired. We might be unable to compete successfully with other companies in our industry. The markets in which we operate are highly competitive and certain of them have relatively few barriers to entry. The principal competitive factors in our markets are product, equipment and service quality, availability, responsiveness, experience, technology, safety performance and price. In some of our business segments, we compete with the oil and gas industry’s largest oilfield service providers. These large national and multi-national companies have longer operating histories, greater financial, technical and other resources and greater name recognition than we do. Several of our competitors provide a broader array of services and have a stronger presence in more geographic markets. In addition, we compete with several smaller companies capable of competing effectively on a regional or local basis. Our competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and services and changes in customer requirements. Some contracts are awarded on a bid basis, which further increases competition based on price. As a result of competition, we may lose market share or be unable to maintain or increase prices for our present services or to acquire additional business opportunities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we do not develop new competitive technologies and products, our business and revenues may be adversely affected. The market for our offshore products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better performance in increasingly greater water depths, higher pressure levels and harsher conditions. If we are unable to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products in a timely manner in response to changes in technology, our business and revenues will be adversely affected. In addition, competitors or customers may develop new technologies, which address similar or improved solutions to our existing technology. Should our technologies, particularly in offshore products or in our completion services business, become the less attractive solution, our operations and profitability would be negatively impacted. 35 During periods of strong demand, we may be unable to obtain critical project materials on a timely basis. Our operations depend on our ability to procure, on a timely basis, certain project materials, such as forgings, to complete projects in an efficient manner. Our inability to procure critical materials during times of strong demand could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. Our oilfield operations involve a variety of operating hazards and risks that could cause losses. Our operations are subject to the hazards inherent in the oilfield business. These include, but are not limited to, equipment defects, blowouts, explosions, fires, collisions, capsizing and severe weather conditions. These hazards could result in personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, pollution or environmental damage and suspension of operations. We may incur substantial liabilities or losses as a result of these hazards as part of our ongoing business operations. We may agree to indemnify our customers against specific risks and liabilities. While we maintain insurance protection against some of these risks, and seek to obtain indemnity agreements from our customers requiring the customers to hold us harmless from some of these risks, our insurance and contractual indemnity protection may not be sufficient or effective enough to protect us under all circumstances or against all risks. The occurrence of a significant event not fully insured or indemnified against or the failure of a customer to meet its indemnification obligations to us could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations may suffer due to increased industry-wide capacity of certain types of equipment or assets. The demand for and pricing of certain types of our assets and equipment, particularly our accommodations assets, drilling rigs and completion services assets, is subject to the overall availability of such assets in the marketplace. If demand for our assets were to decrease, or to the extent that we and our competitors increase our capacity in excess of current demand, we may encounter decreased pricing for or utilization of our assets and services, which could adversely impact our operations and profits. In addition, we have significantly increased our accommodations capacity in the oil sands region over the past eight years and in Australia over the past three years based on our expectation for current and future customer demand for accommodations in these areas. Should our customers build their own facilities to meet their accommodations needs or our competitors likewise increase their available accommodations, or activity in the oil sands or natural resources regions of Australia declines significantly, demand and/or pricing for our accommodations could decrease, negatively impacting the profitability of our accommodations segment. We might be unable to protect our intellectual property rights. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our offshore products and completion services businesses, particularly our patents relating to our FlexJoint® and Merlin™ technology and intervention and downhole extended-reach tools utilized in the completion or workover of oil and natural gas wells. The market success of our technologies will depend, in part, on our ability to obtain and enforce our proprietary rights in these technologies, to preserve rights in our trade secret and non-public information, and to operate without infringing the proprietary rights of others. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. If any of our patents or other intellectual property rights are determined to be invalid or unenforceable, or if a court limits the scope of claims in a patent or fails to recognize our trade secret rights, our competitive advantages could be significantly reduced in the relevant technology, allowing competition for our customer base to increase. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our products and services may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The failure of our company to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could adversely affect our competitive position. Loss of key members of our management could adversely affect our business. We depend on the continued employment and performance of key members of our management. If any of our key managers resign or become unable to continue in their present roles and are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be materially adversely affected. We do not maintain "key man" life insurance for any of our officers. 36 Employee and customer labor problems could adversely affect us. As of December 31, 2013, we are party to collective bargaining agreements covering 1,823 employees in Canada, 543 employees in Australia, 18 employees in Argentina and 16 employees in the United Kingdom. In addition, our accommodations facilities serving oil sands development work in Northern Alberta, Canada and mining operations in Australia house both union and non-union customer employees. We have not experienced strikes, work stoppages or other slowdowns in the past, but we cannot guarantee that we will not experience such events in the future. A prolonged strike, work stoppage or other slowdown by our employees or by the employees of our customers could cause us to experience a disruption of our operations, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could discourage a takeover attempt, which may reduce or eliminate the likelihood of a change of control transaction and, therefore, the ability of our stockholders to sell their shares for a premium. Provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws provide limitations on the removal of directors, on stockholder proposals at meetings of stockholders, on stockholder action by written consent and on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, which could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire control of our company. Our certificate of incorporation also authorizes our Board of Directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. If our Board of Directors elects to issue preferred stock, it could increase the difficulty for a third-party to acquire us, which may reduce or eliminate our stockholders' ability to sell their shares of our common stock at a premium. The proposed spin-off of our accommodations business is contingent upon the satisfaction of a number of conditions, which may not be consummated on the terms or timeline currently contemplated or may not achieve the intended results. On July 30, 2013, we announced that our Board of Directors approved pursuing the spin-off of our accommodations business into a stand-alone, publicly traded corporation through a tax-free distribution of the accommodations business to our shareholders. We expect that the spin-off can be executed by the end of the second quarter of 2014. Our ability to timely effect the spin-off is subject to several conditions, including among other things, market conditions, the receipt of an affirmative IRS ruling or independent tax opinion, completion of a review by the Commission of a Form 10 filed by the accommodations business, the execution of separation and intercompany agreements and final approval of our Board of Directors. We cannot assure you that we will be able to complete the spin-off in a timely fashion, if at all. For these and other reasons, the spin-off may not be completed on the terms or timeline contemplated. Further, if the spin-off is completed, it may not achieve the intended results. Any such delays or difficulties could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may be required to refinance our debt in connection with the contemplated spin-off of our accommodations business. In connection with the proposed spin-off, we will be required to refinance all or a portion of our credit facilities and outstanding 5 1/8% Senior Notes (5 1/8% Notes) and 6 1/2% Senior Notes (6 1/2% Notes) unless we obtain the consent of our lenders under our credit facilities and the holders of the notes. If we are required to refinance our debt, we may be required to pay significant redemption premiums, and the terms of any new indebtedness may not be as favorable as our current debt. In addition, if refinancing opportunities are not available to us, we may be required to delay the consummation of the spin-off of our accommodations business. 37 Our business could be negatively affected as a result of the actions of activist shareholders. Publicly traded companies have increasingly become subject to campaigns by investors seeking to increase shareholder value by advocating corporate actions such as financial restructuring, increased borrowing, special dividends, stock repurchases, sales of assets or even sale of the entire company. Given our shareholder composition and other factors, it is possible such shareholders or future activist shareholders may attempt to effect such changes or acquire control over us. Responding to proxy contests and other actions by such activist shareholders or others in the future would be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of business strategies, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction as a result of shareholder activism or changes to the composition of the Board of Directors may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business, instability or lack of continuity which may be exploited by our competitors, cause concern to our current or potential customers, and make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel. If customers choose to delay, defer or reduce transactions with us or transact with our competitors instead of us because of any such issues, then our, revenue, earnings and operating cash flows could be adversely affected. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 