D. Risk Factors — Risks from the handling of hazardous materials could adversely affect our results of operations”. Appropriate Industrial Hygiene practices and programs are defined and implemented in each site. These practices consist essentially of containment measures of collective and individual protection against exposure in all workplaces where chemical substances or biological agents are handled. All personnel are monitored with an appropriate initial and routine medical program, focused on the potential occupational health risks linked to their duties. Safety Sanofi-aventis has rigorous policies to identify and evaluate safety risks and to develop preventive safety measures, and methods for checking their efficacy. Additionally, sanofi-aventis invests in training that is designed to instill in all employees a sense of concern for safety, regardless of their duties. These policies are implemented on a worldwide scale to ensure the safety of all employees and to protect their health. Each project, whether in research, development or manufacturing, is subject to evaluation procedures, incorporating the chemical substance and process data communicated by the COVALIS and TRIBIO committees described above. The preventive measures are designed primarily to reduce the number and seriousness of work accidents and to minimize exposures involving permanent and temporary sanofi-aventis employees as well as our sub-contractors. In addition, a committee has been set up to prepare and support the implementation of the new European Union REACH regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The French chemical manufacturing sites in Aramon, Neuville-sur-Saône, Saint-Aubin-lès-Elbeuf, Sisteron, Vertolaye and Vitry, as well as the plants located in the Hoechst Industry Park in Frankfurt, Germany, and the chemical production site in Budapest, Hungary, are listed Seveso II (from the name of the European directive that deals with potentially dangerous sites through a list of activities and substances associated with classification 57 Table of Contents thresholds). In accordance with French law on technological risk prevention, the French sites are also subject to heightened security inspections in light of the toxic or flammable materials stored on the sites and used in the operating processes. Risk assessments of processes and their installations are drawn up according to standards and internal guidelines incorporating the best state-of-the-art benchmarks for the industry. These assessments are used to fulfill regulatory requirements and are regularly updated. Particular attention is paid to any risk-generating changes: process or installation changes, as well as changes in production scale and transfers between industrial or research units. Our laboratories that specialize in process safety testing, which are fully integrated into our chemical development activities, apply methods to obtain the physico-chemical parameters of manufactured chemical substances (intermediate chemical compounds and active ingredients) and apply models to measure the effect of potentially leachable substances in the event of a major accident. In these laboratories the parameters for qualifying hazardous reactions are also determined to define scale-up process conditions while transferring from development stage to industrial scale. All these data ensure the relevance of the risk assessments. We believe that the safety management systems implemented at each site, the hazard studies carried out and the risk management methods implemented, as well as our third-party property insurance policies covering any third-party material damages, are consistent with legal requirements and the best practices in the industry. Environment The main objectives of the environmental policy of sanofi-aventis are to implement clean manufacturing techniques, minimize the use of natural resources and reduce the environmental impact of its activities. In order to optimize and improve our environmental performance, sanofi-aventis is committed to progressively obtaining ISO 14001 certification. 39 manufacturing sites and three Research & Development sites are currently certified. This commitment is part of a strategy of continuous improvement practiced at all Group sites through the annual implementation of HSE progress plans. We believe that this strategy clearly expresses the commitment of both management and individuals to health, safety and the environment. In 2008 and 2009, six of the Group’s European sites are included in the scope of the European CO2 Emissions Credit Trading Scheme aimed at helping to reach the targets set by the Kyoto protocol. The recent efforts of the Group in terms of environmental protection have mainly targeted reductions in energy consumption, greenhouse gas emissions control, improvements in the performance of water treatment installations, reduction of volatile organic compound emissions, raw material savings and recycling, and reductions in waste materials or increases in the percentage being recycled. Since 2005 we have reduced carbon dioxide emissions caused by our sales representation car fleet by 14%, our direct carbon dioxide emissions by 11 % and our indirect emissions by 16% in terms of our activity level per unit produced.(1) An internal committee of experts called ECOVAL assesses the environmental impact of the pharmaceutical agents found in products marketed by sanofi-aventis. It has developed an environmental risk assessment methodology and runs programs to collect the necessary data for such assessments. Additional ecotoxicity assessments are being performed on certain substances which predate current regulations, in order to obtain information that was not gathered when they were launched (as regulatory requirements were different at that time) and evaluate environmental risks resulting from their use by patients. Markets A breakdown of revenues by activity and by geographic market for 2007, 2008 and 2009 can be found at Note D.35. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. (1) The CO2 emissions variations per produced unit are calculated for each business and added proportionally to their contribution to the total. Each business defines a specific indicator of its activity (e.g., hours worked for vaccines, number of boxes produced for pharmacy). An important evolution in chemistry occurred this year regarding the production mix between chemical synthesis, fermentation and biotechnology. It was decided that from 2008, the added value would be considered as the new activity indicator instead of the quantity of API and isolated intermediates produced, which was previously used from 2005 to 2008. 58 Table of Contents The following market shares and ranking information is based on sales data from IMS Health MIDAS, retail and hospital, for 2009, in constant euros (unless otherwise indicated). For more information on market shares and ranking, see “Presentation of Financial and Other Information” at the beginning of this document. Marketing and Distribution Sanofi-aventis has a commercial presence in approximately 110 countries, and our products are available in more than 170. Our main markets in terms of net sales are, respectively: • The United States, also the world’s largest pharmaceutical market, where we rank 12th, and where our market share is 3.4% in 2009 (3.4% in 2008). The United States represents 32% of the Group’s net sales. Key events in 2009 affecting American market share include: - Strong performance by Lantus® driven by SoloSTAR®, and by Taxotere® and Lovenox®; - Launch of Multaq® in July 2009, the first anti-arrhythmic to be approved with a clinical benefit in reducing cardiovascular hospitalization in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter; and - Market entry of generics of Eloxatin® in August and of Allegra® D-12 Hour in November 2009. • Europe: represents 41% of the Group’s net sales; we are the leading pharmaceutical company in France where our market share is 11.5% in 2009 (13.1% in 2008), and we rank second in Germany with a 5.6% (5.7% in 2008) market share. Key events in 2009 affecting European market share include: - Eastern Europe, which since the beginning of April 2009 has included Zentiva was the main growth driver; - Good performance by Lantus®, Lovenox® and Copaxone®; - Ongoing competition from generics of Eloxatine® and from clopidogrel generics; - Multaq® approval by European Commission; Multaq® was launched in Germany in January 2010; and - The new generics platform combining the operations of Zentiva and sanofi-aventis is now fully operational. • Japan represents 6% of the Group’s net sales; our market share is 3.0% (2.8% in 2008). Our main products are Allegra®, Plavix®, Myslee®, Amaryl® and Taxotere®. Key events affecting Japanese market share include: - Good performance by Plavix®, Myslee® and Allegra®; - Approval of Lovenox® for the prevention of venous thromboembolic events after abdominal surgery; and - Launch of Apidra® in June 2009. • Emerging markets (see definition in “B. Business Overview — Strategy”, above) represent 25% of the Group’s net sales; we are the leading healthcare company in emerging markets with a 5.7% market share. A breakdown of our sales by geographic market is presented in “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008.” Although specific distribution patterns vary by country, we sell prescription drugs primarily to wholesale drug distributors, independent and chain retail drug outlets, hospitals, clinics, managed care organizations and government institutions. With the exception of CHC products, these drugs are ordinarily dispensed to patients by pharmacies upon presentation of a doctor’s prescription. We use a selection of channels to disseminate information about and promote our products among healthcare professionals and patients, ensuring that the channels not only cover our latest therapeutic advances but also our mature products, as they provide the foundation for satisfying major therapeutic needs. 59 Table of Contents Our medical sales representatives, who work closely with healthcare professionals, use their expertise to promote and provide information on our drugs. They represent our values on a day-to-day basis and are required to adhere to a code of ethics. As of December 31, 2009, we have a global sales force of some 34,300 representatives, including approximately 11,100 in Europe, 7,100 in the United States, 3,200 in Japan and 3,600 in China. As is common in the pharmaceutical industry, we market and promote our products through a variety of advertising, public relations and promotional tools. We regularly advertise in medical journals and exhibit at major medical congresses. In some countries, products are also marketed directly to patients by way of television, radio, newspapers and magazines, and we sometimes use specific media channels to market our products. National education and prevention campaigns can be used to improve patients’ knowledge of conditions such as deep vein thrombosis, osteoporosis, uncontrolled diabetes, influenza and arterial diseases in markets such as Germany, France and the United States. Although we market most of our products with our own sales forces, we have entered into and continue to form partnerships to co-promote/co-market certain products in specific geographic areas. Our major alliances are detailed at “— Main pharmaceutical products” above. Our vaccines are sold and distributed through multiple channels, including physicians, pharmacies and distributors in the private sector, and governmental entities and non-governmental organizations in the public and international donor markets, respectively. Competition The pharmaceutical industry is currently experiencing significant changes in its competitive environment. Innovative drugs, a broad product range, and a presence in all geographical markets are key factors in maintaining a strong competitive position. There are four types of competition in the pharmaceutical market: • Competition between pharmaceutical companies to research and develop new patented products or new therapeutic indications; • Competition between different patented pharmaceutical products marketed for the same therapeutic indication; • Competition between original and generic products or between original biological products and biosimilars, at the end of patent protection; and • Competition between generic or biosimilar products. We compete with other pharmaceutical companies in all major markets to develop innovative new products. We may develop new technologies and new patented products wholly in-house, but we also enter into collaborative R&D agreements in order to access new technologies. See Note D.21. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. Our prescription drugs compete in all major markets against patented drugs from major pharmaceutical companies like Abbott in benign prostatic hyperplasia; AstraZeneca in cardiovascular disease, hypertension and oncology; Bayer in thrombosis; Boehringer-Ingelheim in atherothrombosis and benign prostatic hyperplasia; Bristol-Myers Squibb in oncology; Lilly in osteoporosis, diabetes and oncology; GlaxoSmithKline in oncology, allergies, diabetes and thrombosis; Merck in hypertension, osteoporosis, diabetes and benign prostatic hyperplasia; Novartis in hypertension and oncology; Novo Nordisk in diabetes; Pfizer in oncology, thrombosis and allergies, Roche in oncology and osteoporosis, and Bayer in thrombosis. In our Vaccines business, we compete primarily with Merck outside of Europe, GlaxoSmithKline, Wyeth (recently acquired by Pfizer) and Novartis. In selected market segments, sanofi pasteur competes with mid-size international players (such as CSL of Australia in the influenza market for the Southern Hemisphere). Sanofi Pasteur also competes with an increasing number of local manufacturers, which are raising their level of technical capability and quality standards to compete on more sophisticated antigens in their domestic markets and also in international donor markets. 60 Table of Contents We also face competition from generic drugs that enter the market when our patent protection or regulatory exclusivity expires, or when we lose a patent infringement lawsuit (see “— Patents, Intellectual Property and Other Rights” above). Similarly, when a competing patented drug from another pharmaceutical company faces generic competition, these generic products can also affect the competitive environment of our own patented product. Competition from producers of generics has increased sharply in response to healthcare cost containment measures and to the increased number of products for which patents have expired. Generics manufacturers who have received all necessary regulatory approvals for a product may decide to launch a generic version before the patent expiry date. Such launch may occur notwithstanding the fact that the owner of the original product may already have commenced patent infringement litigation against the generics manufacturer. Such launches are said to be “at risk” for the promoter of the generic product because it may be required to pay damages to the owner of the original product in the context of patent infringement litigation; however, these launches may also significantly impair the profitability of the pharmaceutical company whose product is challenged. Another competitive issue drug manufacturers are facing is parallel trade, also known as reimportation. This takes place when drugs sold abroad under the same brand name as in a domestic market are imported into that domestic market by parallel traders, who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the Internet. This issue is of particular relevance to the European Union, where these practices have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. Parallel traders take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. Finally, pharmaceutical companies face illegal competition from counterfeit drugs. The WHO estimates that counterfeit products account for 10% of the market worldwide, rising to as much as 30% in some countries. However, in markets where powerful regulatory controls are in place, counterfeit drugs are estimated to represent less than 1% of market value. The WHO also estimates that 50% of sales over the Internet are of counterfeit drugs: their development has intensified in 2009. A medical product is counterfeit when there is a false representation in relation to its identity (e.g. name, composition, strength, etc.) or source (e.g. manufacturer, country of manufacturing/origin, marketing authorization holder, etc.) or its background (e.g. filings and documentation related to its distribution channels). Sanofi-aventis is committed to being part of any efforts made to overcome drug counterfeiting and has implemented the following actions: • Intensification of close collaboration with international organizations and with customs and police to reinforce regulatory frameworks and to investigate suspected counterfeiters; and • Development of technologies to make drugs more difficult to copy through packaging protection programs and to ensure no direct traceability. Regulation The pharmaceutical sector is highly regulated. National and supranational regulatory authorities administer a vast array of legislative and regulatory requirements that dictate pre-approval testing, and quality standards ensure the safety and efficacy of a new product. These authorities also regulate product labeling, manufacturing, importation/exportation and marketing as well as post-approval commitments which the product manufacturer is required to honor. The submission of an application to a regulatory authority does not guarantee that a license to market the product will be granted. Furthermore, each regulatory authority may impose its own requirements during the course of the development or during product review. It may refuse to grant approval, or may require additional 61 Table of Contents data before and also after granting an approval, even though the relevant product has already been approved in other countries. Regulatory authorities also have the authority to request product recalls, product withdrawals and other penalties for violations of regulations based on data that are made available to them. The International Conference on Harmonization (“ICH”) regulatory agencies (the three founder members being the European Union, Japan and the United States), plus Health Canada and Swissmedic as observers, all have high standards for pharmaceutical technical appraisal. Product approval usually takes one to two years, but depending on the country it can vary from six months to, in some cases, several years from the date of application. Factors such as the quality of data submitted, the degree of control exercised by the regulatory authority, the review procedures, the nature of the product and the condition to be treated, play a major role in the length of time a product is under review. In recent years, intensive efforts have been made by the ICH area regulatory agencies to harmonize product development and regulatory submission requirements. An example of this is that many pharmaceutical companies are now able to prepare and submit a Common Technical Document (“CTD”) that can be used in different regions for a particular product with only local or regional adaptation. Electronic CTD is becoming the standard for submission. Pharmaceutical manufacturers have committed to publishing protocols and results of clinical studies performed with their compounds in publicly accessible registries (Clinical Trials Registry and Clinical Trial Results Registry). In addition, regulatory frameworks in the various ICH countries and non-ICH countries tend to impose mandatory disclosure of clinical trials information (protocol-related information as well as results-related information). However, the requirement of many countries (including Japan and several Member States of the European Union) to negotiate selling prices or reimbursement rates for pharmaceutical products with government regulators can substantially extend the time for market entry to long after initial marketing approval is granted. While marketing authorizations for new pharmaceutical products in the European Union have been substantially centralized with the European Medicines Agency (“EMA”), pricing and reimbursement remain a matter of national competence. See “— Pricing & Reimbursement” below. In the European Union, there are three main procedures by which to apply for marketing authorization: • The centralized procedure is mandatory for certain types of medicinal products and optional for others. An application is typically submitted to the EMA. The scientific evaluation of the application is carried out by the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (“CHMP”) of the EMA, and a scientific opinion is prepared. The opinion is sent to the European Commission which adopts the final decision and grants a Community marketing authorization. Such a marketing authorization is valid throughout the Community and the drug may be marketed within all European Union member states. • If a company is seeking a national marketing authorization in more than one Member State, the mutual recognition or decentralised procedure is available to facilitate the granting of harmonized national authorizations across Member States. Both the decentralised and the mutual recognition procedures are based on the recognition by national competent authorities of a first assessment performed by the authorities of one member state. • National authorizations are still possible, but are only for products intended for commercialization in a single EU member state, or for line extensions to existing national product licenses. The co-called « sunset clause » is a provision leading to the cessation of the validity of any marketing authorization which is not followed by the actual placing on the market within 3 years or which does not remain present on the market for a consecutive period of 3 years. Generic products are subject to a harmonized procedure in all countries of the European Union. A generic product contains the same active medicinal substance as an originator product. Generic applications are abridged: generic manufacturers only need to submit quality data and demonstrate that the generic drug is “bioequivalent” to the originator product — i.e. that it works in essentially the same way in the patient’s body, but there is no need to submit safety or efficacy data as regulatory authorities refer to the originator product’s dossier. Generic 62 Table of Contents product applications can be filed and approved in the European Union only after the eight year data exclusivity period of the originator product has expired. Further, generic manufacturers can only market their generic products after a 10- or 11-year period from the date of approval of the originator product has elapsed. The EMA has introduced a series of initiatives aimed at improving the openness and the transparency of its activities, such as the publication of the European Public Assessment Report (for approved, withdrawn or rejected products), which will now be more structured and oriented to comparative effectiveness. New initiatives have been proposed with regard to the disclosure of a minimum amount of information on applications that have been submitted for marketing authorization. Also the EMA has become more proactive on the disclosure of documents/information throughout the product lifecycle, more specifically in the safety area. In addition patients and consumers are increasingly involved in the work EMA’s scientific committees of the Agency. A new regulation in pediatric development came into force in January 2007. It is aimed at promoting the development of drugs well adapted to children and ensuring safe use in the pediatric population. Incentives are proposed such as extension of SPC (Supplementary Protection Certificate) or data protection for PUMA (Pediatric Use Marketing Authorization). A new regulatory framework has been implemented specifically covering Advanced Therapy Medicinal Products (“ATMPs”). This new legislation provides specific requirements for the approval, supervision, and pharmacovigilance of ATMPs. A new scientific committee — the Committee for Advanced Therapies (“CAT”) — has been established within the EMA to plays a central role in the scientific assessment of ATMPs. A new regulatory framework on variations to marketing authorizations is being implemented with a view to rendering the whole system for post-authorization activities simpler, clearer and more flexible without compromising public health. International collaboration between regulatory authorities is developing with the implementation of the confidentiality arrangements between ICH regulatory authorities, and also with other non-ICH regulatory authorities. Several examples have begun such as work-sharing on Good Clinical Practices (“GCP”) inspections between the United States and the European Union and permanent representatives of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and Japanese Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices Agency (“PMDA”) now based in London, as well as a permanent representative of EMA at the FDA. In the United States, applications for drug approval are submitted for review by the U.S. FDA. The FDA has broad regulatory powers over all pharmaceutical products that are intended for sale and marketing in the United States. To commercialize a product in the United States, a New Drug Application (“NDA”) or Biological License Application (BLA) is filed with the FDA with data that sufficiently demonstrate the drug’s quality, safety and efficacy. Specifically, the FDA must decide whether the drug is safe and effective for its proposed use, if the benefits of the drug’s use outweigh its risks, whether the drug’s labeling is adequate, and if the manufacturing of the drug and the controls used for maintaining quality are adequate to preserve the drug’s identity, strength, quality and purity. Based upon this review, the FDA can require post-approval commitments. Approval for a new indication of a previously registered drug requires the submission of a supplemental NDA (“sNDA”). In the United States, generic drug manufacturers may file an Abbreviated NDA (“ANDA”). These applications are “abbreviated” because they are generally not required to include preclinical data, such as animal studies and human clinical data to establish safety and effectiveness. Instead, generic manufacturers need only demonstrate that their product is bioequivalent, i.e., that it performs in humans in the same manner as the originator’s product. Consequently, the length of time and cost required for development of such product can be considerably less than for the originator’s drug. See “— Patents, Intellectual Property and Other Rights” above for additional information. The ANDA procedures in the United States can be only used for pharmaceutical products approved under an NDA. See “— Focus on Biologics” below. In Japan, the regulatory authorities can require local development studies; they can also request bridging studies to verify that foreign clinical data are applicable to Japanese patients and require data to determine the appropriateness of the dosages for Japanese patients. These additional procedures have created a delay in the registration of some innovative products in Japan compared to the European Union and United States. For animal health products, see “—Animal Health: Merial” above. 63 Table of Contents Focus on Biologics Products are usually referred to as “biologics” when they are derived from plant or animal tissues (e.g., blood products) or manufactured within living cells (e.g., anti-bodies, insulins, vaccines). Most biologics are complex molecules or mixtures of molecules which are difficult to completely characterize. To characterize and determine the quality, these products require physico-chemical-biological testing, and an understanding of and control over the manufacturing process. The concept of “generics” is not scientifically appropriate for biologics due to their complexity. It is the concept of “biosimilar products” that applies. A full comparison of the quality, safety and efficacy of the biosimilar product against the reference biological product should be undertaken and must include assessment of physical/chemical, biological, non-clinical and clinical similarity. In the European Union, a regulatory framework for developing and evaluating biosimilar products has been in place since November 2005. The CHMP has issued several product/disease specific guidelines for biosimilar products. In March 2009, the CHMP adopted a guideline on pre-clinical and clinical development of biosimilars of low molecular weight heparins. This means that in Europe, a potential product candidate claiming to be biologically similar to Lovenox® must show therapeutic equivalence in terms of efficacy and safety in at least one adequately powered, randomized, double-blind, parallel group clinical trial. With respect to vaccines, the CHMP has taken the position that currently it is unlikely that these products may be characterized at the molecular level, and that each vaccine product must be evaluated on a case by case basis. In Japan, guidelines defining the regulatory approval pathway for follow-on biologics were finalized in March 2009. These guidelines set out the requirements on preclinical and clinical data to be considered for the development of the new application category of biosimilars. In the United States, the regulations do not currently establish procedures for “biosimilar” versions of a reference drug registered as a biological under the Public Health Service Act, but accelerated generic approval procedures for large-molecule biologicals have been proposed that would require the law to be revised. However, in the United States for historical reasons a few biologicals have been registered under the Food, Drug & Cosmetic Act (“FDCA”) following the NDA scheme used for traditional well characterized small molecules. It is currently still technically possible to file an ANDA with respect to those particular products (among the Group’s products Lovenox® is one example). Because an ANDA provides for no clinical trials other than bioequivalence studies, the appropriateness of an ANDA with respect to these NDA-registered biologicals raises significant policy issues for the FDA. The FDCA provides for another abbreviated registration pathway for some biosimilar products; the so-called “505(b)(2)” route. This pathway may in particular be used for recombinant proteins. The registration file may partially refer to the existing data for the reference product but must be completed with data specific to the biosimilar version, in particular with preclinical and clinical data. However the FDA indicated that this pathway should remain limited to relatively simple cases and that taking into consideration the current state of scientific knowledge, it is unlikely that it could be applied to more complex products either from a structural or pharmacological point of view. Pricing & Reimbursement Rising overall health care costs are leading to efforts to curb drug expenditures in most markets in which sanofi-aventis operates. Increasingly these efforts result in pricing and market access controls for pharmaceuticals. The nature and impact of these controls vary from country to country, but some common themes are reference pricing, systematic price reductions, formularies, volume limitations, patient co-pay requirements, and generic substitution. In addition, governments and third-party payers are increasingly demanding comparative / relative effectiveness data to support their decision making process. They are also increasing their utilization of emerging healthcare information technologies such as electronic prescribing and health records to enforce transparency and tight compliance with these regulations and controls. As a result, the environment in which pharmaceutical companies must operate in order to make their products available to patients and providers who need them continues to grow more complex each year. 64 Table of Contents In the United States, the U.S. government does not currently control pharmaceutical costs directly except in the case of prescriptions purchased or reimbursed by government entities such as Medicaid, Veterans Affairs, and the Department of Defense. These entities provide health insurance coverage to less than 20% of the U.S. population. The U.S. government also authorizes some qualifying private market entities to purchase pharmaceuticals at government controlled prices through the 340B Drug Pricing Program. Third-party payers administer private plans that cover part of the U.S. population, as well as the Medicare prescription benefit for the elderly, which the federal government funds and regulates. While the U.S. government does not directly control prices in the private and Medicare prescription drug markets, third-party payers seek to decrease drug costs through reimbursement restrictions such as patient co-pays, step therapy protocols (protocols under which a brand product may be prescribed and reimbursed only if therapy has already failed using at least one low-cost generic drug, also known as “fail first”), and prior authorization (requirements that a prescriber obtain third-party payer authorization prior to prescribing certain medications), in addition to rebate contracting with manufacturers. For pharmaceuticals and biologics administered to Medicare and patients in a medical setting, the U.S. government does not directly control prices, but does have the authority to make coverage determinations and has initiated various reimbursement policies, both of which than can reduce access. The Democratic leadership in both the presidency and Congress has put forward proposals to increase the scope of direct government involvement in drug pricing and reimbursement with an aim to reign in future healthcare expenditures which are otherwise expected to increase significantly. For example, the current federal legislative activity on health care reform contains provisions to: extend and increase Medicaid rebates; apply Medicaid rebates to Medicare Part D dual-eligibles; repeal the existing non-interference provision in Part D; create an independent body whose purpose is reduce expenditures; and grant more authority to the current agency responsible for regulating and funding Medicare and Medicaid to experiment with various payment schemes, among other things. Outside the United States, governments frequently directly control pricing of drugs. The level of evidence requested to access the market, after regulatory approval is constantly rising. In addition to traditional clinical efficacy and safety criteria, more and more health authorities are asking for relative effectiveness data, and in some cases cost-effectiveness evidence. Cost-containment measures are often used to limit the financial impact of pharmaceuticals on payers who in many emerging markets may be the patients themselves. Across Europe, healthcare systems are continuously under scrutiny in order to strike a balance between funding, organization and the needs of the population. In 2009, measures taken in France included the decentralization of the healthcare system via the creation of regional health agencies (Agences Régionales de Santé, ARS) similar to those existing in other EU countries (e.g., Italy, Spain, UK). In Germany, allocation of contributions to the healthcare funds dramatically changed from 2008 to 2009 with the introduction of a common financial collection mechanism within the GKV based on a health fund (Gesundheitsfonds) from January 1, 2009. The new scheme provides for unitary health insurance at a contribution rate set by law. Health funds are responsible for their budget and the needs of their population. Although the scheme is regulated at the federal level, the provision and financing of care is determined at regional level, with the regional associations of each type of health insurance fund and the regional physicians’ associations playing key roles. In Eastern Europe, Poland, the Czech Republic, and Hungary are examples of countries which are moving towards more stringent measures to control pricing and reimbursement of drugs, with certain countries calling for exceptional measures in face of the economic crisis (e.g., Greece, Romania). In addition the European Commission’s Directorate General for Competition published its final report on July 8, 2009 in connection with the investigation of the pharmaceutical industry initiated in January 2008. This report contains a number of conclusions and arguments in favor of modifying the regulatory environment, notably in order to improve price negotiation and drug reimbursement levels. Several countries have announced stronger pricing controls, among them, China, India and Russia. In China, however, this is part of a broader plan to structure its healthcare system: a basic health insurance is to reach 90% of the population by the end of this year and hospitals are to be built to cover rural and remote areas. Centralised purchasing has been on the agenda in China, India and Brazil, while tendering for generics, flourishing in Germany, is now being looked at in several countries, including Italy. All of these factors, which are specific to each country, represent additional financial and logistical challenges to pharmaceutical companies. 65 Table of Contents Regardless of the exact method, we believe that third-party payers will continue to act to curb the cost of pharmaceutical products. While the impact of these measures cannot be predicted with certainty, sanofi-aventis is taking the necessary steps to defend the accessibility and price of our products which reflects the value of our innovative product offerings: • We actively engage with our key stakeholders on the value of our products as it specifically pertains to their needs. These stakeholders — including physicians, patient groups, pharmacists, government authorities and third-party payers — can have significant impact on the market accessibility of our products; • We continue to add flexibility and adaptability to our operations to better prepare, diagnose, and address issues in individual markets. For instance, in several countries, account management and sales functions have been reorganized and empowered to make decisions based on regional markets; • Keeping in mind the importance of recognizing the value of our products and the high cost of research and development, we continue to analyze innovative pricing and access strategies that balance patient accessibility with appropriate reward for innovation. Insurance and Risk Coverage We are protected by four key insurance programs, relying not only on the traditional corporate insurance and reinsurance market but also on a mutual insurance company established by various pharmaceutical groups and our captive insurance company, Carraig Insurance Ltd (“Carraig”). These four key programs cover Property & Business Interruption, General Liability, Stock and Transit, and Directors & Officers Liability. Our captive insurance company, Carraig, participates in our coverage for various lines of insurance including excess property, stock and transit and product liability. Carraig is run under the supervision of the Irish regulatory authorities, is wholly owned by sanofi-aventis, and has sufficient resources to meet the risks that it covers. It sets premiums for Group entities at market rates. Claims are assessed using the traditional models applied by insurance and reinsurance companies, and the company’s reserves are regularly checked and confirmed by independent actuaries. Our Property & Business Interruption program covers all Group entities worldwide, wherever it is possible to use a centralized program operated by our captive insurance company. This approach shares risk between Group entities, enabling us to set deductibles appropriate to the needs of local entities. A further benefit of this program is that traditional insurance cover is supplemented by specialist cover, thanks to the involvement of an international mutual insurance company established by a number of pharmaceutical groups. It also incorporates a prevention program, including a comprehensive site visit program covering our production, storage, research and distribution facilities and standardized repair and maintenance procedures across all sites. Specialist site visits are conducted every year to address specific needs, such as testing of sprinkler systems or emergency plans to deal with flooding risks. The Stock and Transit program protects goods of all kind owned by the Group that are in transit nationally or internationally, whatever the means of transport, and all our inventories wherever they are located. Sharing risk between Group entities means that we can set deductibles at appropriate levels, for instance differentiating between goods that require temperature controlled distribution and those that do not. Over the last three years, we have been working with our insurers to develop a prevention program, implementing best practices in this area at our distribution sites. This program, which is led by our captive insurance company, has substantial capacity, largely to deal with the growth in sea freight which can lead to a concentration of value in a single ship. Our General Liability & Product Liability program has been renewed for all our subsidiaries worldwide wherever it was possible to do so, despite the increasing reluctance in the insurance and reinsurance market to cover product liability risks for large pharmaceutical groups. For several years, insurers have been reducing product liability cover because of the difficulty of insuring some products that have been subject to numerous claims. These products are excluded from the cover provided by insurers, and hence from the cover obtained by us on the insurance market. This applies to a few of our products, principally those described in Note D.22.a) to 66 Table of Contents our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 in this annual report. Because of these market conditions we have increased, year by year, the extent to which we self-insure. The principal risk exposure for our pharmaceutical products is covered with low deductibles at the country level, the greatest level of risk being retained by our captive insurance company. The level of risk self-insured by the Group — including our captive reinsurance company — enables us to retain control over the management and prevention of risk. Our negotiations with third-party insurers and reinsurers are tailored to our specific risks. In particular, they allow for differential treatment of products in the development phase, for the discrepancies in risk exposure between European countries and the United States, and for specific issues arising in certain jurisdictions. Our cover for risks that are not specific to the pharmaceutical industry (general liability) is designed to address the potential impacts of our operations. In respect of all lines of business of Carraig, outstanding claims are covered by provisions for the estimated cost of settling all claims incurred up to, but not paid at the balance sheet date, whether reported or not, together with all related claims handling expenses. Where there is sufficient history from the company or from the market of claims made and settlements, an incurred but not reported (IBNR) actuarial technique is developed by management with the assistance of expert external actuaries to determine a reasonable estimate of the captive’s exposure to unasserted claims for those risks. The actuaries perform an actuarial valuation of the IBNR loss and ALAE (allocated loss adjustment expense) liabilities of the Company as of year end. Two ultimate loss projections (based upon reported losses and paid losses respectively) using the Bornhuetter-Ferguson method are computed each year. Provisions are recorded on that basis. The Directors & Officers Liability program protects all our legal entities and their directors and officers. Our captive insurance company is not involved in this program. These insurance programs are backed by best-in-class insurers and reinsurers and they are designed in such a way that we can seamlessly integrate newly-acquired business on a continuous basis. Our cover has been designed to reflect our risk profile and the capacity available in the insurance market. By centralizing our major programs, not only do we reduce costs, but we also provide world-class coverage for the entire Group. C. Organizational Structure Sanofi-aventis is the holding company of a consolidated group of subsidiaries. The table below sets forth our significant subsidiaries and affiliates as of December 31, 2009. For a complete list of our main consolidated subsidiaries, see Note F. to our consolidated financial statements, included in this annual report at Item 18. Significant Subsidiary or Affiliate Country OwnershipInterest Aventis Inc. United States 100 % Aventis Pharma S.A. France 100 % Hoechst GmbH Germany 100 % Merial Ltd United Kingdom 100 % Sanofi-aventis Amerique du Nord S.N.C. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis Deutschland GmbH Germany 100 % Sanofi-aventis Europe S.A.S. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis France S.A. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis Participation S.A.S. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis U.S. LLC U.S. 100 % Sanofi-aventis U.S. Inc. U.S. 100 % Sanofi Pasteur Inc. U.S. 100 % Sanofi Pasteur S.A. France 100 % Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A. France 100 % Sanofi-aventis and its subsidiaries form a group, organized around two activities: pharmaceutical products and human vaccines. The Group is also present in animal health through Merial. 67 Table of Contents The patents and trademarks of the pharmaceutical activity are primarily owned by the sanofi-aventis parent company, Aventis Pharma S.A. (France), Hoechst GmbH (Germany) and sanofi-aventis Deutschland GmbH (Germany). Within the Group, the holding company oversees research and development activities, by defining strategic priorities, coordinating work, and taking out the industrial property rights under its own name and at its own expense. In order to fulfill this role, sanofi-aventis subcontracts research and development to its specialized French and foreign subsidiaries, in many cases licensing its patents, manufacturing know-how and trademarks. In these cases, the licensee subsidiaries manufacture and distribute the Group’s products, either directly or via local distribution entities. In certain countries, sanofi-aventis carries out part of its business operations through ventures with local partners. In addition, the Group has signed worldwide alliances by which two of its products (Plavix® and Aprovel®) are marketed through an alliance with BMS (see “— Pharmaceutical Products — Main Pharmaceutical Products,” above). For most Group subsidiaries, sanofi-aventis provides financing and centrally manages their cash surpluses. Under the alliance arrangement with BMS, cash surpluses and cash needs arising within alliance entities give rise to symmetrical monthly transfers between the two groups. The holding company also operates a centralized foreign exchange risk management system, which enters into positions to manage the operational risks of its main subsidiaries. D. Property, Plant and Equipment Our headquarters are located in Paris, France. We operate our business through offices and research, production and logistics facilities in approximately 110 countries. All our support functions operate out of our office premises. A breakdown of these sites by nature and ownership/leasehold status is provided below. Breakdowns are based on surface area. All surface area figures are unaudited. Breakdown of sites by nature Industrial 44 % Research 15 % Offices 21 % Logistics 6 % Vaccines 11 % Others 3 % Breakdown of the Group’s sites between owned and leased Leased 68 % Owned 32 % We believe that our production plants and research facilities are in full compliance with regulatory requirements, well maintained, and generally adequate to meet our needs for the foreseeable future. However, we review our production facilities on a regular basis with regard to environmental, health, safety and security issues, quality compliance, and capacity utilization. Because our production lines are specific to a given product, and in many cases cannot be easily switched to another product, while our capacity utilization is considered appropriate as a whole, we are constantly adding capacity for products with increasing volumes while decreasing that of other lines facing reduced demand. See “— Capital Expenditures and Divestitures,” below. For more information about our property, plant and equipment, see Note D.3. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. 68 Table of Contents Research and Development Sites for the Pharmaceutical Activity Research and Development activities are housed at 25 sites: • 11 sites in France , the largest in terms of surface area being in Vitry/Alfortville (approximately 110,000 sq.m), Montpellier (98,000 m2), Chilly/Longjumeau (77,000 m2) and Toulouse (38,000 m2); • 5 sites in other European countries (Germany, United Kingdom, Hungary, Spain and Italy), the largest being in Frankfurt, Germany (84,000 m2); • 6 sites in the United States, the largest being in Bridgewater, New Jersey, United States (111,000 m2); • In Japan, Research & Development is represented in Tokyo; • In China, the main Research and Development operations are located in Shanghai, with a Clinical Research Unit in Beijing. Industrial sites for the Pharmaceutical Activity Production of chemical and pharmaceutical products is the responsibility of the Industrial Affairs Management, which is also in charge of most of our logistics facilities (distribution and storage centers). We have 72 industrial sites worldwide. The sites where the major sanofi-aventis drugs, active ingredients and medical devices are manufactured are: • France: Ambarès (Aprovel®, Depakine®, Multaq®), Le Trait (Lovenox®), Maisons Alfort (Lovenox®), Neuville (dronedarone), Quetigny (Stilnox®, Plavix®), Sisteron (clopidogrel bisulfate, dronedarone, zolpidem tartrate), Tours (Stilnox®, Aprovel®, Xatral®), Vitry/Alfortville (docetaxel) ; • Germany: Frankfurt (insulins, ramipril, Lantus®, Tritace®, pens, Apidra®); • Italy: Scoppito (Tritace®, Amaryl®); • United Kingdom: Dagenham (Taxotere®), Fawdon (Plavix®, Aprovel®); Holmes Chapel (Nasacort®) • Hungary: Ujpest (irbesartan), Csanyikvölgy (Lovenox®); • Japan: Kawagoe (Plavix®); • United States: Kansas City (Allegra®). Sanofi Pasteur Sites The headquarters of our Vaccines division, sanofi pasteur, are located in Lyon, France. Sanofi Pasteur’s production and/or Research and Development sites are located in Swiftwater, Cambridge*, Rockville* and Canton* (United States), Toronto (Canada), Marcy l’Etoile and Val de Reuil (France), Shenzhen (China), Pilar (Argentina), Chachoengsao (Thailand), and Hyderabad (India). In 2009, sanofi pasteur continued with its policy of reinforcing its presence in emerging markets by acquiring the vaccines activity of Shantha in India. We own most of sanofi pasteur’s Research and Development and production sites, either freehold or under finance leases with a purchase option exercisable at expiration. Acquisitions, Capital Expenditures and Divestitures The Real Estate Department was largely involved in the Zentiva combination project. 14 countries were impacted by the project : Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Romania, Russia, Slovakia, Turkey, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. The objective of the combination process was to ensure that both Zentiva and sanofi-aventis staff were housed in the same office premises as soon as possible after the acquisition. Because we intend to contribute Merial to a joint venture and consequently lose our exclusive control (see Note D.8.1 to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report) we have not * Sites acquired in 2008 with Acambis. 69 Table of Contents included Merial sites in the discussion above notwithstanding the fact that on December 31, 2009, Merial was a wholly owned subsidiary of sanofi-aventis. Merial has approximately 15 industrial sites, 9 research and development sites and numerous administrative offices with its principal headquarters located at Lyon (France) and Duluth (Georgia). The net book value of our property, plant and equipment at December 31, 2009 was €7,830 million. During 2009, we invested €1,353 million (see Note D.3. to the consolidated financial statements) in increasing capacity and improving productivity at our various production and R&D sites. The Group’s principal capital expenditures and divestments for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009 are set out in this annual report at “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects — Divestments”, “— Acquisitions” and “— Liquidity and Capital Resources” and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements (Note D.1., Note D.2. and Note D.4. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report). Our principal investments in progress are described below: • In Europe, we continued to optimize our industrial facilities, in particular by investing in two new Lantus® production lines at the Frankfurt site and acquiring the Diabel manufacturing site from Pfizer to strengthen our insulin production capacity. The construction of syringe filling and packaging lines at Le Trait (France) increased our production capacity in Lovenox® and vaccines. • We also started the conversion of our chemical sites to biotechnologies with a project to create a monoclonal antibody production facility at the Vitry-sur-Seine site in France from 2012. • In emerging markets, we currently rely on industrial sites dedicated to serving regional markets, a situation reinforced by our 2009 acquisitions (Zentiva in Eastern Europe and Medley in Brazil). In China, the project to extend our current manufacturing facility located at the Beijing Economic and Technological Development Area will enable us to install production lines for SoloSTAR®, the pre-filled injection pen used to administer Lantus® (insulin glargine). • The Vaccines activity invested in the construction of a state-of-the art research facility in Toronto (Canada); the creation of a new vaccines campus in Neuville (France): the construction of formulation and filling facilities in Val de Reuil (France), of a bacteriological bulk facility in Marcy l’Étoile (France), and of bulk flu facilities in Shenzhen (China) and Ocoyoacac (Mexico); and the completion of bulk and filling facilities in Swiftwater (United States), mainly dedicated to influenza and meningitis vaccines. • Other investments related mainly to Research & Development sites. We believe that our existing cash resources and unused credit facilities will be sufficient to finance these investments. No individual capital expenditure or divestiture project is considered to be material to the Group as a whole. Item 4A. Unresolved Staff Comments N/A 70 Table of Contents Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects You should read the following discussion in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included in this annual report at Item 18. Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and with IFRS adopted by the European Union as of December 31, 2009. The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contained in such forward-looking statements. See “— Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” at the beginning of this document. 2009 Overview Since the start of 2009, we have been engaged in a wide-ranging transformation program designed to meet the challenges facing the pharmaceutical industry to make ourselves a global, diversified healthcare leader, and deliver sustainable growth to our business. In 2009, we once again delivered solid performances in a world market experiencing profound change. Our net sales for the year were €29,306 million, up 5.3% at constant exchange rates (1) relative to 2008 and up 6.3% on a reported basis, with strong performances from our Emerging Markets, Diabetes, Human Vaccines and Consumer Health Care growth platforms more than offsetting the impact of genericization of Eloxatine® in the United States and Plavix® in Europe. Other highlights of 2009 included the launch of Multaq® in the United States, and its approval in the European Union. The ongoing adaptation of our structures and resources was reflected in a further improvement in our operating ratios. The ratio of research and development expenses to net sales improved from 16.6% in 2008 to 15.6% in 2009, while the ratio of selling and general expenses to sales fell from 26.0% to 25.0% over the same period. In 2009, the initial benefits of our cost management program were reflected in €480 million of cost savings compared to 2008. Our transformation program is intended to improve the efficiency of our operations, with a target of €2 billion of recurring pre-tax and pre-inflation cost savings in 2013 relative to 2008. Business net income totaled €8,629 million in 2009 (18.0% higher than in 2008) due to growth in our sales and control over operating costs, plus favorable trends in the U.S. dollar exchange rate over the period. Business earnings per share were €6.61, 18.2% up on the 2008 figure. Business net income and business earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures which our management uses to monitor our operational performance, and which are defined at “— Business Net Income,” below. Net income attributable to equity holders of the Company for 2009 was €5,265 million, up 36.7% from the 2008 figure. During 2009, we deployed our strategy of focusing on reorganizing our research efforts and redefining our R&D programs; building on the positions we have acquired in emerging markets; and reinforcing our operations in Vaccines, Consumer Health Care, Generics and Animal Health. We pursued an active policy of targeted acquisitions and research and development (“R&D”) alliances during 2009. In Pharmaceuticals, we successfully completed our offer for Zentiva N.V., a branded generics group with products tailored to the Eastern and Central European markets. A number of other companies were acquired, including Laboratorios Kendrick, one of the leading manufacturers of generics in Mexico; Medley, the leading generics company in Brazil; BiPar Sciences, Inc., a U.S. biopharmaceutical company developing novel tumorselective approaches for the treatment of different types of cancers; Fovea Pharmaceuticals SA, a French biopharmaceutical R&D company specializing in ophthalmology; and Laboratoire Oenobiol, one of France’s leading players in health and beauty dietary supplements. At the end of the year, we finalized an agreement to acquire Chattem, Inc. (“Chattem”), one of the leading manufacturers and distributors of branded consumer health care products, toiletries and dietary supplements in the United States. (1) See definition below under “— Presentation of net sales” 71 Table of Contents In Human Vaccines, we took control of Shantha Biotechnics, an Indian biotechnology company that develops, produces and markets vaccines in accordance with international standards. We have significantly reinforced our presence in Animal Health by acquiring the remaining 50% of Merial Limited not already held by us. On March 8, 2010, sanofi-aventis exercised its contractual right to combine the Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with Merial to form an animal health joint venture that would be equally owned by the new Merck and sanofi-aventis. In addition to execution of final agreements, formation of the new animal health joint venture remains subject to approval by the relevant competition authorities and other closing conditions (for more information see “Item 8 — B. Significant Changes — Merial” and Notes D.1 and D.8.1 to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report). We have also signed a number of alliance and in-licensing agreements, with partners such as Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co. Ltd; Exelixis, Inc.; Merrimack Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation; Micromet, Inc.; and Alopexx Pharmaceuticals LLC. These agreements enable us to gain access to new technologies or to strengthen our existing research fields. We also signed agreements with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to broaden and extend the duration of our existing collaboration, focused on the research, development and commercialization of fully human therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Our operations generate significant cash flow. We recorded €8,515 million of net cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared to €8,523 million in 2008. During the course of 2009, we paid out €2.9 billion in dividends and funded part of the cost of our acquisitions by contracting new debt. In terms of financial position, we ended 2009 with our debt, net of cash and cash equivalents (meaning the sum of short-term debt and long-term debt less cash and cash equivalents) at €4.1 billion (2008: €1.8 billion). Debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, is a financial indicator that is used by management and investors to measure the Company’s overall net indebtedness and to assess the Company’s financing risk as measured by its gearing ratio (debt, net of cash and cash equivalents, to total equity). The gearing ratio stood at 8.5% at the end of 2009 versus 3.9% at the end of 2008. See “— Liquidity and Capital Resources — Consolidated Balance Sheet and Debt” below. Purchase Accounting Effects (primarily the acquisition of Aventis in 2004) Our results of operations and financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 have been significantly affected by our August 2004 acquisition of Aventis and certain subsequent transactions. The Aventis acquisition gave rise to significant amortization (€3,175 million in 2009, €3,298 million in 2008 and €3,511 million in 2007) and impairments of intangible assets (€344 million in 2009, €1,486 million in 2008 and €58 million in 2007). In order to isolate the impact of these and certain other items, we use as an evaluation tool a non-GAAP financial measure that we refer to as “business net income” For a further discussion and definition of “business net income”, see “— Business Net Income” below. For consistency of application of this principle, business net income also takes into account the impact of our subsequent acquisitions. Business net income for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 is presented in “— Business Net Income” below. Sources of Revenues and Expenses Revenue. Revenue arising from the sale of goods is presented in the income statement under “Net sales.” Net sales comprise revenue from sales of pharmaceutical products, vaccines, and active ingredients, net of sales returns, of customer incentives and discounts, and of certain sales-based payments paid or payable to the healthcare authorities. Returns, discounts, incentives and rebates described above are recognized in the period in which the underlying sales are recognized, as a reduction of sales revenue. See Note B.14. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. We sell pharmaceutical products and human vaccines directly, through alliances, and through licensees throughout the world. When we sell products directly, we record sales revenues as part of our consolidated net sales. When we sell products through alliances, the revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements are based on the overall level of sales of the products 72 Table of Contents and on the arrangements governing those alliances. For more information about our alliances, see “— Financial Presentation of Alliances” below. When we sell products through licensees, we receive royalty income that we record in “Other revenues.” See Note C. to the consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. Cost of Sales. Our cost of sales consists primarily of the cost of purchasing active ingredients and raw materials, labor and other costs relating to our manufacturing activities, packaging materials, payments made under licensing agreements and distribution costs. We have license agreements under which we distribute products that are patented by other companies and license agreements under which other companies distribute products that we have patented. When we pay royalties, we record them in cost of sales, and when we receive royalties, we record them in “Other revenues” as discussed above. Operating Income. Our operating income reflects our revenues, our cost of sales and the remainder of our operating expenses, the most significant of which are research and development expenses and selling and general expenses. We also present our operating income before restructuring, impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, gains and losses on disposals and litigation, which appears on the face of our financial statements in accordance with IFRS, and which reflects our operating income before the impact of a number of items that do not reflect the results of our current business activities. For our business segments, we also measure our results of operations through an indicator referred to as “Business Operating Income,” which we describe below under “— Segment Information — Business Operating Income of Segments.” Segment Information Business Segments In accordance with IFRS 8, “Business Segments,” we have defined our segments as “Pharmaceuticals” and “Human Vaccines” (Vaccines). Our other identified segments are categorized as “Other”. The Pharmaceuticals segment includes our research, development, production and sales activities relating to pharmaceutical products, including prescription, consumer health care and generic products. This segment also includes equity affiliates and joint ventures with pharmaceutical business activities, including in particular the entities that are majority-held by BMS. See “— Financial Presentation of Alliances.” The Vaccines segment includes our research, development, production and sales activities relating to human vaccines. This segment also includes our Sanofi Pasteur MSD joint venture. The Other segment includes all segments that are not reportable under IFRS 8, including in particular our interest in the Groupe Yves Rocher, our animal health business (Merial) and the impact of our retained liabilities in connection with businesses that we have sold. Inter-segment transactions are not significant. Business Operating Income of Segments We measure the results of operations of our business segments on the basis of “Business Operating Income,” a performance measure that we adopted in accordance with IFRS 8. Our chief operating decision-maker uses Business Operating Income to evaluate the performance of our operating managers and to allocate resources. “Business Operating Income” is equal to “Operating income before restructuring, impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangibles, gains and losses on disposals, and litigation,” modified as follows: • amortization of intangible assets is eliminated; • the share of profits and losses of associates is added and net income attributable to minority interests is deducted; and • other impacts associated with acquisitions (primarily, the workdown of acquired inventories remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date, and the impact of purchase accounting on associates) are eliminated. 73 Table of Contents The following tables present our business operating income for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. 2009 (€ million) Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Other Total Net sales 25,823 3,483 — 29,306 Other revenues 1,412 31 — 1,443 Cost of sales (6,527 ) (1,326 ) — (7,853 ) Research and development expenses (4,091 ) (491 ) (1 ) (4,583 ) Selling and general expenses (6,762 ) (561 ) (2 ) (7,325 ) Other operating income and expenses 387 (3 ) 1 385 Share of profit/loss of associates excluding Merial (1) 792 41 8 841 Share of profit/loss of Merial (1) — — 241 241 Net income attributable to minority interests (426 ) (1 ) — (427 ) Business operating income 10,608 1,173 247 12,028 (1) Net of tax 2008 (€ million) Pharmaceuticals Vaccines Others Total Net sales 24,707 2,861 — 27,568 Other revenues 1,208 41 — 1,249 Cost of sales (6,231 ) (1,104 ) — (7,335 ) Research and development expenses (4,150 ) (425 ) — (4,575 ) Selling and general expenses (6,662 ) (520 ) 14 (7,168 ) Other operating income and expenses 297 1 (95 ) 203 Share of profit/loss of associates excluding Merial (1) 671 28 21 720 Share of profit/loss of Merial (1) — — 170 170 Net income attributable to minority interests (441 ) — — (441 ) Business operating income 9,399 882 110 10,391 (1) Net of tax Business Net Income In addition to net income, we use a non-GAAP financial measure that we refer to as “Business Net Income” to evaluate our Group’s performance. Business net income, which is defined below, represents the aggregate business operating income of all of our business segments, less net financial expenses and the relevant income tax charges. We believe that this non-GAAP financial measure allows investors to understand the performance of our Group because it segregates the results of operations of our current business activities, as opposed to reflecting the impact of past transactions such as acquisitions. Our management uses business net income to manage and to evaluate our performance, and we believe it is appropriate to disclose this non-GAAP financial measure, as a supplement to our IFRS reporting, in order to assist investors in analyzing the factors and trends affecting our business performance. Our management also intends to use business net income as the basis for proposing the dividend policy for the Group. Accordingly, management believes that an investor’s understanding of trends in our dividend policy is enhanced by disclosing business net income. We have also decided to report “Business Earnings per Share”. Business earnings per share is a specific non-GAAP financial measure, which we define as business net income divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding. Our management intends to give earnings guidance based on business earnings per share. We also present business earnings per share on a diluted basis. Business net income is defined as “Net income attributable to equity holders of the Company”, determined under IFRS, excluding (i) amortization of intangible assets; (ii) impairment of intangible assets; (iii) other impacts associated with acquisitions (including impacts of acquisitions on associates); (iv) restructuring costs; 74 Table of Contents gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets; costs or provisions associated with litigation; (v) the tax effect related to the items listed in (i) through (iv) as well as (vi) effects of major tax disputes, and (vii) the share of minority interests on (i) through (vi). Items listed in (iv) correspond to those reported in the line items “Restructuring costs” and “Gains and losses on disposals, and litigation”, which are defined in Note B.20. to our consolidated financial statements. The following table reconciles our business net income to our Net income attributable to equity holders of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: (€ million) 2009 2008 2007 Business net income 8,629 7,314 7,060 (i) amortization of intangible assets (3,528 ) (3,483 ) (3,654 ) (ii) impairment of intangible assets (372 ) (1,554 ) (58 ) (iii) expenses arising on the workdown of acquired inventories (1) (27 ) (2 ) — (iv) restructuring costs (1,080 ) (585 ) (137 ) (iii)/(iv) other items (2) — 114 (61 ) (v) tax effect on the items listed above 1,629 1,904 1,939 (iii)/(vi) other tax items (3) 106 221 337 (vii) share of minority interests on the items listed above 1 — — (iii) expenses arising from the impact of the Merial acquisition (4) (66 ) (50 ) (30 ) (iii) expenses arising from the impact of acquisitions on associates (5) (27 ) (28 ) (133 ) Net income attributable to equity holders of the Company 5,265 3,851 5,263 (1) Expenses arising from the impacts of acquisitions on inventories: workdown of inventories remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date. (2) Other items comprise: - harmonization of welfare and healthcare plans for retirees (61 ) - gain on sale of investment in Millennium 38 - reversal of provisions for major litigation 76 (3) Other tax items comprise: - net charge to/(reversal of) provisions for tax exposures 221 337 - reversal of deferred taxes following ratification of the Franco-American Treaty (see Note D.30. to our consolidated financial statements) 106 (4) This line item comprises: until September 17, 2009, amortization and impairment charged against the intangible assets of Merial; and from September 18, 2009 (i) the impact of the discontinuation of depreciation of the property, plant and equipment of Merial in accordance with IFRS 5 (see Note B.7. to our consolidated financial statements) and (ii) the expense arising from the workdown of inventories remeasured at fair value at acquisition date. (5) Expenses arising from the impacts of acquisitions on associates: workdown of acquired inventories, amortization and impairment of intangible assets, and impairment of goodwill. The most significant reconciliation items in the table above relate to the purchase accounting effect of our acquisitions, particularly the amortization and impairment of intangible assets such as acquired research and development. We believe that excluding these non-cash charges enhances an investor’s understanding of our underlying economic performance because we do not consider that the excluded charges reflect the combined entity’s ongoing operating performance. Rather, we believe that each of the excluded charges reflects the decision to acquire the businesses concerned. The purchase-accounting effects on net income primarily relate to: • charges to cost of sales resulting from the workdown of acquired inventory that was written up to fair value, net of tax; • charges related to the impairment of the goodwill; and • charges related to the amortization and impairment of intangible assets, net of tax and minority interests. 75 Table of Contents We believe (subject to the limitations described below) that disclosing business net income enhances the comparability of our operating performance, for the following reasons: • the elimination of charges related to the purchase accounting effect of our acquisitions (particularly amortization and impairment of definite-lived intangible assets) enhances the comparability of our ongoing operating performance relative to our peers in the pharmaceutical industry that carry these intangible assets (principally patents and trademarks) at low book values either because they are the result of in-house research and development that has already been expensed in prior periods or because they were acquired through business combinations that were accounted for as poolings-of-interest; • the elimination of selected items, such as the increase in cost of sales arising from the workdown of inventories remeasured at fair value, gains and losses on disposals of non-current assets and costs and provisions associated with major litigation, improves comparability from one period to the next; and • the elimination of integration and restructuring costs relating to our acquisitions and to the implementation of our transformation strategy enhances comparability because these costs are directly, and only, incurred in connection with the relevant acquisitions or transformation processes such as the rationalization of our research and development structures. We remind investors, however, that business net income should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, net income attributable to equity holders of the Company reported in accordance with IFRS. In addition, we strongly encourage investors and potential investors not to rely on any single financial measure but to review our financial statements, including the notes thereto, and our other publicly filed reports, carefully and in their entirety. There are material limitations associated with the use of business net income as compared to the use of IFRS net income attributable to equity holders of the Company in evaluating our performance, as described below: • The results presented by business net income cannot be achieved without incurring the following costs that the measure excludes: • Amortization of intangible assets. Business net income excludes the amortization charges related to intangible assets. Most of these amortization charges relate to intangible assets that we have acquired. Although amortization is a non-cash charge, it is important for investors to consider it because it represents an allocation in each reporting period of a portion of the purchase price that we paid for certain intangible assets that we have acquired through acquisitions. For example, in connection with our acquisition of Aventis in 2004, we paid an aggregate of €31,279 million for these amortizable intangible assets (which, in general, will be amortized over their useful lives, which represents an average amortization period of eight years) and €5,007 million for in-progress research & development. A large part of our revenues could not be generated without owning acquired intangible assets. • Integration and restructuring costs. Business net income does not reflect integration and restructuring costs even though it does reflect any synergies that arise from the acquired assets, as well as the benefits of the optimization of our research and development activities, much of which we could not achieve in the absence of restructuring costs. • In addition, the results presented by business net income are intended to represent the Group’s underlying performance, but items such as gains and losses on disposals and provisions associated with major litigation may recur in future years. We compensate for the above-described material limitations by using business net income only to supplement our IFRS financial reporting and by ensuring that our disclosures provide sufficient information for a full understanding of all adjustments included in business net income. In addition, subject to applicable law, we may in the future decide to report additional non-GAAP financial measures which, in combination with business net income, may compensate further for some of the material limitations described above. In determining the level of future dividend payments, and in analyzing dividend policy on the basis of business net income, our management intends to take into account the fact that many of the adjustments reflected in business net income have no effect on the underlying amount of cash available to pay dividends. However, 76 Table of Contents although the adjustments relating to the elimination of the effect of the purchase accounting treatment of the Aventis acquisition and other acquisitions represent non-cash charges, the adjustments relating to integration and restructuring costs represent significant cash charges in the periods immediately following the closing of the acquisition. This Item 5 contains a discussion and analysis of business net income on the basis of consolidated financial data. Because our business net income is not a standardized measure, it may not be comparable with the non-GAAP financial measures of other companies using the same or a similar non-GAAP financial measure. Presentation of Net Sales In the discussion below, we present our consolidated net sales for 2009, 2008 and 2007. We break down our net sales among various categories, such as by business segment, product and geographic region. We refer to our consolidated net sales as “reported” sales. In addition to reported sales, we analyze non-GAAP financial measures designed to isolate the impact on our net sales of currency exchange rates and changes in group structure. In 2009, we changed our method of isolating these factors, so that the measures we use for purposes of comparing our net sales in 2009 and 2008 are not the same as the measures we use for purposes of comparing our net sales in 2008 and 2007. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, we adjust net sales for changes in exchange rates by applying the exchange rates used for the year ended December 31, 2008 to net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009. As more fully explained below, in our comparison of the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we adjust net sales by applying exchange rates used for the year ended December 31, 2008 to the net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a result, we use 2008 exchange rates for 2009 and for 2007. Using prior period exchange rates rather than current period exchange rates could modify the result of the calculations of our net sales at constant exchange rates, impacting the sales growth information presented below. This impact could be either positive or negative depending on the currency mix of our net sales for each year. Years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 For the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, when we refer to changes in our net sales “at constant exchange rates”, we exclude the effect of exchange rates by recalculating net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 using the exchange rates that were used for the year ended December 31, 2008. See Note B.2 to our consolidated financial statements for further information relating to the manner in which we translate into euros transactions recorded in other currencies. When we refer to our net sales on a “constant structure basis”, we eliminate the effect of changes in structure by restating the net sales for the previous period (i.e., in this case 2008) as follows: • by including sales from an entity or with respect to product rights acquired in the current period for a portion of the previous period (i.e., 2008) equal to the portion of the current period during which we owned them, based on sales information we receive from the party from whom we make the acquisition; • similarly, by excluding sales for a portion of the previous period (i.e., 2008) when we have sold an entity or rights to a product in the current period; and • for a change in consolidation method, by recalculating the previous period (i.e., 2008) on the basis of the method used for the current period. A reconciliation of our reported net sales to our net sales at constant exchange rates and on a constant structure basis is provided at “— Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008 — Net Sales” below. Years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 For the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we present and discuss net sales on a comparable basis, a non-GAAP financial measure. When we refer to the change in our net sales on a “comparable” basis, we mean that we exclude the impact of exchange rate fluctuations and changes in our Group structure (due to acquisitions and divestitures of entities and rights to products, and changes in the consolidation 77 Table of Contents percentage or method for consolidated entities). In contrast to our comparison of 2009 and 2008, where we isolate the impact of changes in exchange rates and changes in structure separately, we generally isolate the two impacts jointly in our discussion of comparable sales in 2008 and 2007. With respect to the discussion of net sales for the year ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, we exclude the impact of exchange rates by recalculating net sales for the year ended December 31, 2007 on the basis of exchange rates used for the year ended December 31, 2008. We exclude the impact of acquisitions, consolidations, divestitures and changes in consolidation method in the same manner as described above for 2009 and 2008. A reconciliation of our reported net sales to our comparable net sales is provided at “— Results of Operations — Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2007 — Net Sales” below. Financial Presentation of Alliances We have entered into a number of alliances for the development, co-promotion and/or co-marketing of our products. We believe that a presentation of our two principal alliances is useful to an understanding of our financial statements. The financial impact of the alliances on the Company’s income statement is described in “— Results of Operations”, in particular in “— Net sales”, “— Other Revenues”, “— Share of Profit/Loss of Associates” and “— Net Income Attributable to Minority Interests”. Alliance Arrangements with Bristol-Myers Squibb (“BMS”) Our revenues, expenses and operating income are affected significantly by the presentation of our alliance with BMS in our consolidated financial statements. There are three principal marketing arrangements that are used: • Co-marketing. Under the co-marketing system, each company markets the products independently under its own brand names. We record our own sales and related costs in our consolidated financial statements. • Exclusive Marketing. Under the exclusive marketing system, one company has the exclusive right to market the products. We record our own sales and related costs in our consolidated financial statements. • Co-promotion. Under the co-promotion system, the products are marketed through the alliance arrangements (either by contractual arrangements or by separate entities) under a single brand name. The accounting treatment of the co-promotion arrangement depends upon who has majority ownership and operational management in that territory, as discussed below. The alliance arrangements include two royalty streams that are applied on a worldwide basis (excluding Japan and other opt out countries), regardless of the marketing system and regardless of which company has majority ownership and operational management: • Discovery Royalty. As inventor of the two molecules, we earn an adjustable discovery royalty on all Aprovel® and Plavix® sold in alliance countries regardless of the marketing system. The discovery royalty is reflected in our consolidated income statement in “Other revenues.” • Development Royalty. In addition to the discovery royalty, we and BMS are each entitled to a development royalty related to certain know-how and other intellectual property in connection with sales of Aprovel® and Plavix®. • We record development royalties paid to BMS in our consolidated income statement as an increase to our cost of sales in countries where we consolidate sales of the products. We record development royalties that we receive as “other revenues” in countries where BMS consolidates sales of the products. 78 Table of Contents Under the alliance arrangements, there are two territories, one under our operational management and the other under the operational management of BMS. The territory under our operational management consists of Europe and most of Africa and Asia, while the territory under the operational management of BMS consists of the rest of the world (excluding Japan). In Japan, Aprovel® has been marketed jointly by Shionogi Pharmaceuticals and Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd since June 2008. Our alliance with BMS does not cover distribution rights to Plavix® in Japan, which is marketed by sanofi-aventis. Territory under our operational management. In the territory under our operational management, the marketing arrangements and recognition of operations by the Group are as follows: • we use the co-promotion system for most of the countries in Western Europe for Aprovel® and Plavix® and for certain Asian countries for Plavix®. We record 100% of all alliance revenues and expenses in our consolidated financial statements. We also record, as selling and general expenses, payments to BMS for the cost of BMS’s personnel involved in the promotion of the products. BMS’s share of the operating income of the alliances is recorded as “minority interests”; • we use the co-marketing system in Germany, Spain and Greece for both Aprovel® and Plavix® and in Italy for Aprovel®; • we have the exclusive right to market Aprovel® and Plavix® in Eastern Europe, Africa and the Middle East, and we have the exclusive right to market Aprovel® in Asia (excluding Japan), Scandinavia and Ireland. Territory under BMS operational management. In the territory under BMS operational management, the marketing arrangements and recognition of operations by the Group are as follows: • we use the co-promotion system in the United States and Canada, where the products are sold through the alliances under the operational management of BMS. With respect to Avapro® (the brand name used in the United States for Aprovel®) and Plavix®, we record our share of the alliance’s operating income under “share of profit/loss of associates”. We also record payments from BMS for the cost of our personnel in connection with the promotion of the product as a deduction from our selling and general expenses; • we use the co-marketing system in Brazil, Mexico, Argentina and Australia for Plavix® and Aprovel® and in Colombia for Plavix®; • we have the exclusive right to market the products in certain other countries of Latin America. In countries where the products are marketed by BMS on a co-marketing basis, or through alliances under the operational management of BMS, we also earn revenues from the sale of the active ingredients for the products to BMS or such entities, which we record as “Net sales” in our consolidated income statement. Alliance arrangements with Warner Chilcott (previously with Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals) Our agreement with Warner Chilcott (“the Alliance Partner”) covers the worldwide development and marketing arrangements of Actonel®, except Japan for which we hold no rights. Until October 30, 2009, this agreement was between sanofi-aventis and Procter & Gamble Pharmaceuticals (P&G). Since the sale by P&G of its pharmaceutical business to Warner Chilcott on October 30, 2009, Actonel® has been marketed in collaboration with Warner Chilcott. The local marketing arrangements may take various forms. • Co-promotion, whereby sales resources are pooled but only one of the two parties to the alliance agreement (sanofi-aventis or the Alliance Partner) invoices product sales. Co-promotion is carried out under contractual agreements and is not based on any specific legal entity. The Alliance Partner sells the product and incurs all of the related costs in the United States, Canada and France. This co-promotion scheme also included the Netherlands until March 31, 2008. We recognize our share of revenues under the agreement in our income statement as a component of operating income in the line item “Other operating income”. In the secondary co-promotion territories (the United Kingdom until December 31, 2008, Ireland, Sweden, Finland, Greece, Switzerland, Austria, Portugal and Australia), we sell the product and recognize all the revenues from sales of the product along with the corresponding expenses. The share due to the Alliance Partner is recognized in “Cost of sales”; 79 Table of Contents • Co-marketing, which applies in Italy whereby each party to the alliance agreement sells the product in the country under its own brand name, and recognizes all revenues and expenses from its own operations in its respective income statement. Each company also markets the product independently under its own brand name in Spain, although Spain is not included in the co-marketing territory. • Warner Chilcott only territories: the product has been marketed by the Alliance Partner independently in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg since January 1, 2008, in the Netherlands since April 1, 2008 and in the United Kingdom since January 1, 2009. We recognize our share of revenues under the alliance agreement in “Other operating income”; and • sanofi-aventis only territories: we have exclusive rights to sell the product in all other territories. We recognize all revenues and expenses from our own operations in our income statement, but in return for these exclusive rights pay the Alliance Partner a royalty based on actual sales. This royalty is recognized in “Cost of sales”. Impact of Exchange Rates We report our consolidated financial statements in euros. Because we earn a significant portion of our revenues in countries where the euro is not the local currency, our results of operations can be significantly affected by exchange rate movements between the euro and other currencies, primarily the U.S. dollar and, to a lesser extent, the British pound, the Japanese yen, and currencies in emerging countries. We experience these effects even though certain of these countries do not account for a large portion of our net sales. In 2009, we earned 32.2% of our net sales in the United States. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar against the euro has a negative impact on our revenues, which is not offset by an equal reduction in our costs and therefore negatively affects our operating income. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar has a particularly significant impact on our operating income, which is higher in the United States than elsewhere, and on the contribution to net income of our alliance with BMS in the United States, which is under the operational management of BMS, as described at “— Financial Presentation of Alliances — Alliance arrangements with Bristol-Myers Squibb” above. For a description of positions entered into to manage operational exchange rate risks as well as our hedging policy, see “Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk”, and “Item 3.D. Risk factors — Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our results of operations and financial conditions”. Divestments There were no material divestments during 2009, 2008 or 2007. Acquisitions • The principal acquisitions during 2009 are described below: On September 17, 2009, and further to the agreement signed on July 29, 2009, sanofi-aventis completed the acquisition of the interest held by Merck & Co., Inc. (“Merck”) in Merial Limited (“Merial”) for consideration of $4 billion in cash. Founded in 1997, Merial was previously held jointly (50/50) by Merck and sanofi-aventis, and is now 100% held by sanofi-aventis. Merial is one of the world’s leading animal health companies, with sales of $2.6 billion in 2009. With effect from September 17, 2009, sanofi-aventis has held 100% of the shares of Merial and has exercised exclusive control over the company. In accordance with IAS 27, Merial is accounted for by the full consolidation method in the consolidated financial statements of sanofi-aventis. In connection with the agreement signed on July 29, 2009, sanofi-aventis also signed an option contract giving it the possibility, once the Merck/Schering-Plough merger is complete, to combine the Merck-owned Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health with Merial in a joint venture to be held 50/50 by Merck and sanofi-aventis. The terms of the option contract set a value of $8 billion for Merial. The minimum total value received by Merck and its subsidiaries in consideration for the transfer of Intervet/Schering-Plough to the combined entity would be $9.25 billion, comprising a minimum value of $8.5 billion for Intervet/Schering-Plough (subject to potential upward revision after valuations performed by the two parties) and additional consideration of $750 million. On completion of the valuation of Intervet/Schering-Plough and after taking account of certain adjustments customary in this type of transaction, a balancing payment would be made to establish 50/50 parity between Merck and sanofi-aventis in the combined entity. 80 Table of Contents Because of the high probability of the option being exercised as of year end 2009, Merial was treated as an asset held for sale or exchange pursuant to IFRS 5 as of December 31, 2009. On March 8, 2010, sanofi-aventis did in fact exercise its contractual right to combine the Intervet/Schering-Plough Animal Health business with Merial. In addition to execution of final agreements, formation of the new animal health joint venture remains subject to approval by the relevant competition authorities and other closing conditions (for more information see “Item 8 — B. Significant Changes — Merial”). Detailed information about the impact of Merial on the consolidated financial statements of sanofi-aventis is provided in “Note D.8. — Assets held for sale or exchange” to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. On March 11, 2009, sanofi-aventis successfully concluded its offer for Zentiva N.V. (“Zentiva”). As of December 31, 2009, sanofi-aventis held approximately 99.1% of Zentiva’s share capital. The purchase price was €1,200 million, including acquisition costs. The Zentiva Group reported net sales of €735 million in 2008 and has generated net sales of €457 million since the acquisition date. See Note D.1. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. On March 31, 2009, sanofi-aventis acquired Laboratorios Kendrick, one of Mexico’s leading manufacturers of generics, with sales of approximately €26 million in 2008. On April 27, 2009, sanofi-aventis acquired 100% of the shares of Medley, Brazil’s third largest pharmaceutical company and a leading generics company, with net sales of approximately €160 million in 2008 (more than two thirds of which were in generics) and €163 million in 2009 since the acquisition date. The purchase price, based on a €500 million enterprise value, was €348 million inclusive of acquisition-related costs. On April 27, 2009 sanofi-aventis acquired 100% of BiPar Sciences, Inc. (“BiPar”), a U.S. biopharmaceutical company developing novel tumor-selective approaches for the treatment of different types of cancers. BiPar is the leading company in the emerging field of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) repair using Poly ADP-Ribose Polymerase (PARP) inhibitors. The pivotal Phase III trial for BSI-201, BiPar’s lead product candidate in metastatic triple negative breast cancer, started in July 2009. The purchase price is contingent on the achievement (regarded as probable) of milestones related to the development of BSI-201, and could reach $500 million. See Notes D.1. and D.21. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. On August 31, 2009, sanofi-aventis took control of Shantha Biotechnics (Shantha), a biotechnology company based in Hyderabad (India), which develops, manufactures and markets several important vaccines to international standards. Shantha generated net sales of approximately €50 million in 2009. The purchase price amounted to €571 million. As of December 31, 2009, sanofi-aventis held approximately 95% of Shantha. See Note D.1. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. On October 30, 2009, sanofi-aventis took 100% control of Fovea Pharmaceuticals SA. (Fovea), a privately-owned French biopharmaceutical company specializing in ophthalmology. Created in 2005 in Paris, Fovea has a portfolio of three clinical compounds, a unique technology platform and several discovery programs dedicated to back of the eye diseases. Under the terms of the agreement, sanofi-aventis has agreed to purchase Fovea for a total enterprise value of up to €370 million, including an immediate upfront payment of €90 million and subsequent milestone payments related to the three clinical compounds. On November 30, 2009, sanofi-aventis completed the acquisition of Laboratoire Oenobiol, one of France’s leading players in health and beauty dietary supplements. • The principal acquisitions during 2008 are described below: On September 25, 2008, sanofi-aventis completed the acquisition of Acambis plc for £285 million. Acambis plc became Sanofi Pasteur Holding Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Sanofi Pasteur Holding SA. This company develops novel vaccines that address unmet medical needs or substantially improve current standards of care. Sanofi Pasteur and Acambis plc were already developing vaccines in a successful partnership of more than a decade: Acambis plc was conducting three of its major projects under exclusive collaboration agreements with sanofi pasteur, for vaccines against dengue, Japanese Encephalitis and West Nile virus. See Note D.1. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. 81 Table of Contents On September 1, 2008, sanofi-aventis completed the acquisition of the Australian company Symbion CP Holdings Pty Ltd (Symbion Consumer) for AUD560 million. Symbion Consumer manufactures, markets and distributes nutraceuticals (vitamins and mineral supplements) and over the counter brands throughout Australia and New Zealand. Symbion Consumer has a portfolio of brands including Natures Own, Cenovis, Bio-organics, Golden Glow and Microgenics. In 2007, Symbion Consumer sales amounted to approximately AUD190 million. See Note D.1. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. • The principal acquisitions during 2007 are described below: In June 2007, sanofi-aventis bought preferred shares representing a financial interest of 36.7% in Carderm Capital LP for $250 million. In November 2007, sanofi-aventis acquired 12 million newly-issued shares in the biopharmaceutical company Regeneron Pharmaceuticals for $312 million, raising its interest in Regeneron from approximately 4% to approximately 19%. These shares are classified as an available-for-sale financial asset, and are included in “Financial assets — non-current” (see Note D.7. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18). 82 Table of Contents Results of Operations Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2008 The consolidated income statements for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 break down as follows: (under IFRS) 2009 2008 (€ million) as % of net sales as % ofnet sales Net sales 29,306 100.0% 27,568 100.0% Other revenues 1,443 4.9% 1,249 4.5% Cost of sales (7,880 ) (26.9% ) (7,337 ) (26.6% ) Gross profit 22,869 78.0% 21,480 77.9% Research & development expenses (4,583 ) (15.6% ) (4,575 ) (16.6% ) Selling & general expenses (7,325 ) (25.0% ) (7,168 ) (26.0% ) Other operating income 866 556 Other operating expenses (481 ) (353 ) Amortization of intangibles (3,528 ) (3,483 ) Operating income before restructuring, impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangibles, gains & losses on disposals, and litigation 7,818 26.7% 6,457 23.4% Restructuring costs (1,080 ) (585 ) Impairment of property, plant & equipment and intangibles (372 ) (1,554 ) Gains and losses on disposals, and litigation — 76 Operating income 6,366 21.7% 4,394 15.9% Financial expenses (324 ) (335 ) Financial income 24 103 Income before tax and associates 6,066 20.7% 4,162 15.1% Income tax expense (1,364 ) (682 ) Share of profit/loss of associates 814 692 Net income excluding the held-for-exchange Merial business (1) 5,516 18.8% 4,172 15.1% Net income from the held-for-exchange Merial business (1) 175 120 Net income 5,691 19.4% 4,292 15.6% - attributable to minority interests 426 441 - attributable to equity holders of the Company 5,265 18.0% 3,851 14.0% Average number of shares outstanding (million) 1,305.9 1,309.3 Basic earnings per share (in euros) 4.03 2.94 (1) Reported separately in accordance with IFRS 5 (Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations). For the other disclosures required under IFRS 5, refer to Note D.8. to our consolidated financial statements included at Item 18 of this annual report. Net Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2009 amounted to €29,306 million, an increase of 6.3% versus 2008. Exchange rate movements had a favorable effect of 1.0 point, mainly reflecting the appreciation in the U.S. dollar against the euro. At constant exchange rates and after taking account of changes in structure (mainly the consolidation of Zentiva and Medley from the second quarter of 2009, and the reversion of Copaxone® to Teva in North America effective April 1, 2008), net sales rose by 5.3%. Excluding changes in structure and at constant exchange rates, organic net sales growth was 4.0%. 83 Table of Contents The following table sets forth a reconciliation of our reported net sales for the years ended December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 to our net sales at constant exchange rates and net sales on a constant structure basis. (€ million) 2009 2008 Growth (%) Net Sales 29,306 27,568 +6.3% Impact of exchange rates (274 ) Net Sales at constant exchange rates 29,032 27,568 +5.3% Impact of changes in structure 339 Net Sales on a constant structure basis and at constant exchange rates 29,032 27,907 +4.0% Our net sales are generated by our two business segments: Pharmaceuticals and Human Vaccines (Vaccines). The following table breaks down our 2009 and 2008 net sales by business segment: (€ million) 2009Reported 2008Reported Change on areported basis(%) Change at constantexchange rates (%) Change on a constantstructure basis and atconstant exchange rates(%) Pharmaceuticals 25,823 24,707 +4.5% +3.7% +2.3% Vaccines 3,483 2,861 +21.7% +19.2% +18.9% Total 29,306 27,568 +6.3% +5.3% +4.0% Net Sales by Product — Pharmaceuticals Net sales generated by our Pharmaceuticals business in 2009 were €25,823 million, an increase of 3.7% at constant exchange rates and of 4.5% on a reported basis. Net sales of our flagship products (see table below) advanced by 4.6% at constant exchange rates to €13,278 million, representing 51.4% of Pharmaceuticals net sales, versus 50.5% in 2008. This growth rate was adversely affected by competition from generics of Eloxatine® in the United States and Europe; without this effect, growth in Pharmaceuticals net sales would have been 2.2 points higher in 2009 (at constant exchange rates). Net sales of the other products in our portfolio fell by 6.0% at constant exchange rates to €6,078 million, compared with €6,484 million in 2008. At constant exchange rates, net sales of these products were down 9.7% in Europe, at €3,283 million; up 1.2% in the United States, at €610 million; and down 1.5% in the Other Countries region, at €2,185 million. For a description of our other pharmaceutical products, see “