Risk Factors.” These cautionary statements should not be construed as exhaustive and should be read in conjunction with the other cautionary statements that are included in this Annual Report. Moreover, we operate in a continually changing business environment, and new risks and uncertainties emerge from time to time. Management cannot predict these new risks or uncertainties, nor can it assess the impact, if any, that any such risks or uncertainties may have on our business or the extent to which any factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ from those projected in any forward-looking statement. Accordingly, the risks and uncertainties to which we are subject can be expected to change over time and, except as may be required by law, we undertake no obligation to review or to update publicly the risks or uncertainties described herein. We also undertake no obligation to review or to update publicly any of the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report, whether as a result of new information, future developments or otherwise, other than as may be required by law. ITEM 1. BUSINESS Overview We provide enterprise-level information technology solutions for the clinical analysis and management of digital medical images within healthcare provider organizations. Our solutions consist of enterprise visualization and image management software for multiple medical specialties, comprehensive reporting and knowledge tools for cardiology, support services and third-party components. Our web-enabled enterprise visualization software provides physicians across the enterprise — in multiple medical specialties and at any network access point — with tools to manipulate and analyze images in two dimensions (“2D”) and three dimensions (“3D”). We enable physicians to better understand internal anatomic structure and pathology, which can improve clinical diagnoses, disease screening and therapy planning. We believe our solutions improve physician productivity and patient care, enhance customer revenue opportunities, automate complex mission critical medical imaging workflow, and maximize our customers’ return on investment in capital equipment and clinical information systems. We sell to multi-hospital networks, individual hospitals, physician clinics and teleradiology services companies. Healthcare providers produce growing volumes of medical imaging data that must be analyzed, managed and stored efficiently and cost effectively. We focus on developing corporate level relationships with large multi-facility organizations that provide substantial cross selling opportunities and represent an important competitive advantage for us. Since our first commercial implementation in December 2000, we have implemented our solutions at facilities affiliated with some of the largest multi-facility healthcare providers in the United States. As of December 31, 2008, we had $126.7 million in contracted backlog, consisting primarily of fees for contracted future installations and for the support of existing installations, compared with a contracted backlog of $149.1 million at December 31, 2007. From our current contracted backlog, we expect to recognize revenue of 2 Table of Contents approximately $56.3 million during fiscal year 2009, $32.9 million during fiscal year 2010, and substantially all of the remaining $37.5 million by 2014. We were founded in December 1998 as an Alabama corporation and reincorporated in Delaware in January 2000. On February 14, 2005, we completed our initial public offering. Recent Developments On February 12, 2009, we terminated our amended merger agreement with Health Systems Solutions, Inc. and HSS Acquisition Corp. The merger agreement was terminated pursuant to Sections 7.4(a) and 7.4(c) thereof as a result of the failure by Health Systems Solutions to receive all necessary financing on or before the designated closing date of February 11, 2009. In connection therewith, on February 13, 2009, we received the $9 million that had been placed in escrow by Health Systems Solutions in connection with the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. On February 23, 2009, we entered into a merger agreement with AMICAS, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary AMICAS Acquisition Corp. Under the terms of the merger agreement, AMICAS commenced a tender offer on March 5, 2009 to purchase all of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock at a purchase price of $1.82 per share in cash. Unless extended in accordance with the terms and conditions of the merger agreement, the tender offer is scheduled to expire on April 1, 2009. The tender offer is conditioned upon, among other things, at least a majority of our shares outstanding being tendered. Assuming that the tender offer is successful, the merger agreement provides that the tender offer will be followed by a merger pursuant to which AMICAS Acquisition Corp. would be merged with and into Emageon, and Emageon would become a wholly owned subsidiary of AMICAS. We expect the merger to be completed in second quarter of 2009. The merger agreement contains customary representations and covenants, and the merger is subject to customary closing conditions. In addition, we have agreed to use commercially reasonable efforts to operate our business in the ordinary course until the tender offer is completed, and the merger agreement contains certain restrictions on the conduct of our business pending completion of the merger. We have further agreed not to solicit or initiate discussions with third parties regarding other proposals to acquire our business and to certain restrictions on our ability to respond to any such proposals. There are no assurances that the proposed transaction with AMICAS will be consummated on the expected timetable, or at all, and under specified circumstances we will be required to pay AMICAS a termination fee of $1.6 million in connection with the termination of the merger agreement. Copies of the merger agreement and joint press release announcing the transaction with AMICAS were filed as exhibits to a Current Report on Form 8-K filed by us with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, on February 24, 2009, and on March 5, 2009, we filed a Solicitation/Recommendation Statement on Schedule 14D-9 with the SEC regarding the tender offer. Our Opportunity The demand for a unified platform for physicians to visualize all relevant patient information, including medical imagery, at the point of care is increasing as digital information becomes more pervasive across hospitals, physicians offices and other outpatient settings. An aging U.S. population and increase in the sophistication of imaging devices, such as computed tomography, or CT, magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI, positron emission tomography, or PET, cardiac catheterization and pathology is compounding the complexity of visualization and content management. Existing departmental picture archiving and communications systems, or PACS, are not sufficient to meet this growing demand. As a result, hospitals are seeking technology solutions that allow for reliable and cost effective consolidation of digital information into one platform for lifecycle management. In addition, we believe the rapid expansion in the number and complexity of medical images and the need to automate complex, manual workflow processes are driving healthcare providers to invest in systems that maximize their return on capital investments in expensive imaging devices and clinical information technology. 3 Table of Contents We believe that our solutions address the technological challenges associated with the complexity of managing and transporting large clinical image data sets and other relevant clinical imaging information. Our solutions facilitate the convergence of imaging technology and clinical automation at the enterprise level by enhancing analysis, integration, collaboration, and automation of medical imaging workflow. Effective image management can shorten report turnaround times, lower the potential for manual error in data entry and filing, increase staff efficiency, and eliminate costs associated with traditional radiological workflow. We believe the following factors will drive the demand for our solutions: Increasing Number, Size and Complexity of Imaging Exams. The number of imaging exams performed each year is increasing as a result of a number of factors, including increased physician use of advanced imaging as a non-invasive diagnostic and clinical tool, lowered costs of imaging devices and increased healthcare needs of an aging U.S. population. At the same time, technological advancements are increasing the size and complexity of individual imaging exams. For example, one CT vendor has announced a new 320 slice CT which has yielded file sizes significantly larger than previous CT scanners. Additionally, we believe hospitals will require enterprise class solutions capable of managing, organizing and distributing this patient information to the point of care. Need for Advanced Visualization Tools. The increase in this image data is significantly impacting visualization workflow for physicians. Because the output of a cross-sectional imaging device, such as a CT scanner, may consist of thousands of “sliced” 2D images, physicians need sophisticated software tools to model those images in 3D and allow the viewing of a “virtual” patient. This 3D reconstruction improves diagnostic capabilities, treatment and non-invasive surgical planning. Hospitals and hospital networks that provide these advanced visualization tools to physicians have the advantage of attracting patient referrals from those physicians that heavily utilize visualization technology in their practices. Need for Vendor Neutral Content Management. As hospitals have upgraded from earlier generation PACS solutions, they have become acutely aware of the high cost associated with proprietary solutions. Hospitals are now actively seeking more standard solutions that preserve the clinical annotations, overlays, and key image markings in a manner that is portable for the future. Need for Outside Study Management. Hospitals seeking to increase referrals need tools that make it fast, easy, secure, and reliable to digitally transport imagery to other facilities over the Internet, edit demographic information, visualize the imagery, and interoperate with their existing hospital-based image management systems. Bi-directional communication of a patient study ensures that the full patient image record is available at multiple facilities. In the case of emergencies, timely reviews of the images may provide a diagnosis that avoids unnecessary transport of patients. If emergency patients are transported, they no longer have to wait for an image to be reduced to a physical copy. Instead, an electronic copy can be forwarded to another facility while they are in transit, thus reducing the time to care. Our Solutions Overview We provide enterprise-level information technology solutions for the clinical analysis and management of digital medical images within healthcare provider organizations. 4 Table of Contents With our solutions, our customers and their constituents, including physicians, technologists, and nurses, can improve overall clinical and diagnostic quality and eliminate much of the labor and other costs of dealing with film, disparate department-level information systems, exam scheduling, and redundant data entry. We also help to alleviate heavy burdens on a healthcare provider’s staff by automating medical image workflow for physicians and technologists. We believe our enterprise visual medical system, or EVMS, solution provides the benefits of current department-level PACS, including increased automation and better efficiency over traditional film-based methods, with added enterprise-level and cross-enterprise-level / community-level connectivity and advanced visualization tools that are not available with a typical PACS installation. We have designed our solutions to offer benefits to the following groups: Group Benefits from our Solutions Administration • Demonstrable return on investment (CEO, CFO and COO) • Better service to physicians • Improved staff productivity • Improved satisfaction of referring physicians • Elimination of many routine, non-productive and non-clinical tasks Information Technology • Lower total cost of operation (CIO and IT Department) • Highly available, redundant and reliable • Ease of integration with different clinical information systems • Multi-site, standards-based integration • Focused, high quality implementation services Diagnostic Physicians • Productivity gains (Radiologists, Cardiologists) • Multi-point access to visualization tools and images • Efficient tools for collaboration with treating physicians • Improved management of outside studies Treating Physicians • Availability of easy-to-use, specialty specific visualization tools (Cardiologists, Surgeons, etc.) • Faster turnaround of information for treatment planning • Facilitation of collaborative analysis with diagnostic physicians • Improved treatment planning 5 Table of Contents Group Benefits from our Solutions • Improved management of outside studies • Robust integration with clinical information systems Payor • Ability to avoid duplicate exams through cross-enterprise access • Ability to avoid unnecessary transports by leveraging remote diagnostics for triage Our solutions offer the following: Enterprise Content Management. Our solutions provide unified access to and storage of medical images created by digital imaging devices and related patient data across a single or multi-facility enterprise, whether from radiology, cardiology, orthopedics, or other departments. Our solutions catalog, archive and distribute these images through our software, combining centralized control over sensitive patient imaging records with increased availability to physicians and other authorized users in multiple medical specialties. Our solutions integrate with our customers’ existing clinical information and administrative systems, serving as the patient’s visual medical record repository, reducing the risk of billing errors, and lowering the average cost per exam through automation of complex and manual film-based imaging workflow. Enterprise Visualization Technology. Our solutions quickly deliver web-enabled software toolsets and images to physicians throughout the enterprise for diagnostic analysis and treatment planning. Our enterprise visualization software allows physicians to see 2D and 3D views of human anatomy and to manipulate, navigate within, and compare imaging exams in order to better visualize internal anatomic structure and pathology. This visualization of medical images can lead to improved clinical diagnosis, disease screening, and treatment planning by physicians. Physicians can access our enterprise visualization software from any network access point, including home, office or throughout the healthcare facility. Our intelligent user interface automatically adjusts for the specialty and preferences of each user, the type of imaging device used to create the image, and the particular body part and tissue type being examined. Integration with Third Party Systems. Our solutions provide integration with third-party systems such as hospital information systems, departmental information systems, electronic medical record systems, dictation, reporting, and speech understanding systems, enterprise visualization solutions, quantitative analysis and computer-aided detection solutions, and customer managed storage. This integration automates lifecycle workflows associated with imaging procedures and streamlines integration of digital clinical imaging information with the rest of a patient’s record. Specialty-Specific Clinical Applications. We have comprehensive suites of products to address digital clinical imaging and information management for radiology, cardiology, orthopedics, and mammography. We are focused on the development of enhancements and additional functionality to our existing advanced visualization and reporting software to further meet the needs of other clinical specialties. Management of Outside Studies. We have a robust solution to standardize and improve productivity for management of imaging studies from other facilities. Our solution enables outside facilities to perform direct DICOM transfers of encrypted studies to an Emageon OSG (outside study gateway) system in the receiving hospital. This OSG provides for quality control and demographic edits as well as auto-forwarding of the exam into the receiving hospital’s PACS. The OSG allows treating clinicians to rapidly review the images and provide annotations, measurements, and key images. Optionally, new exams or updated clinical information may be sent back to the originating hospital in order to maintain a complete digital image record. Open Standards-Based Software. We believe that our use of open standards has enabled us to design software that stores and manages information faster and with fewer hardware resources than competitive systems, a benefit we believe is becoming increasingly important as the data size of many imaging exams grows. Our commitment to 6 Table of Contents open standards such as DICOM and the standard protocol for the storage of text-based patient information, HL7, makes our software compatible with new imaging device technologies and other clinical information systems that conform to these standards. We lower our customers’ total costs by eliminating the need for translation to and from non-standard or proprietary communication methods. Implementation, User Adoption, and Support Services. We focus on delivering effective implementation, user adoption, and support services as an integral part of our solution. During the implementation phase of our solution, we use proven project management principles to facilitate rapid and complete adoption by our customer. After implementation, we monitor system use and, when appropriate, intervene to make adjustments necessary to prevent anticipated problems from occurring. We believe our focus on implementation and support services ensures that our customers’ investments in our solutions achieve their financial and operational objectives. Our Product Offerings Our product offerings consist of the following: Enterprise Content Manager. Our Enterprise Content Manager solution provides unified access to and storage of medical images that are created across multiple imaging departments within a hospital. Whether for a single or multi-facility enterprise, and whether from radiology, cardiology, orthopedics, or other departments, all information comes together in one unified platform. Our enterprise class distributed architecture enables workflows across multiple sites and institutions, which provides access to a unified visual patient record. This solution catalogs, archives, and distributes these images, combining centralized control over sensitive patient imaging records with increased availability to physicians and other authorized users in multiple medical specialties. Our solution integrates with our customers’ existing clinical information and administrative systems, serving as the patient’s visual medical record repository. Enterprise Visualization. Our Enterprise Visualization solution uses web-enabled software toolsets to provide physicians a unified view of the visual patient record throughout the enterprise as well as enable collaboration on the recorded images among physicians. Our enterprise visualization software allows physicians to see two-dimensional and three-dimensional views of human anatomy and to manipulate, navigate within, and compare imaging exams in order to better visualize internal anatomic structure and pathology. Additionally, users can include annotations and notes to collaborate with other physicians about clinical findings. This visualization of medical images and collaborative workflow can lead to improved clinical diagnosis, disease screening, and treatment planning by physicians. Physicians can access our enterprise visualization software from any network access point, including home, office, or throughout the healthcare facility. Our intelligent user interface automatically adjusts for the specialty and preferences of each user, the type of imaging device used to create the image, and the particular body part and tissue being examined. RadSuite. Our RadSuite solution consists of our suite of software tools for the advanced visualization and analysis of digital medical images, and for reporting by radiologists. Information is presented to radiologists using relevant multi-specialty tools through a dynamic user interface. Physicians can manipulate two-dimensional and three-dimensional image related content in a variety of ways including organization, rotation, inversion, magnification, and enhancement of images, and can manipulate, navigate within, and compare imaging exams in order to better visualize internal anatomic structure and pathology. We offer RadSuite Premium software to customers who need complex customization and RadSuite Express software as an aggressively priced solution for customers with standard workflows. HeartSuite. Our HeartSuite family of products is designed to provide a cardiology department with all of its information needs in one enterprise system with comprehensive solutions for adult, pediatric, and adult congenital cardiology programs. This solution includes HeartSuite VERICIS, HeartSuite Hemodynamics, and HeartSuite CardioIMS. VERICIS creates a complete digital record of images and reports for patients in the cardiac catheterization lab, echocardiography, including pediatric echocardiography, vascular ultrasound and nuclear cardiology. HeartSuite Hemodynamics integrates complete functionality for hemodynamics data collection, waveform analysis, inventory control, patient charging, and procedure reporting in a single system. CardioIMS integrates all clinical and operational information from multiple systems and locations into one system. 7 Table of Contents Third-party Components. Our solutions typically include installation and implementation of platform components that we procure from third parties. We believe that providing third-party components helps us deliver a comprehensive solution that meets the needs of our customers. Some of the third-party components we provide include: • Servers. Our software and the database run on single server or a cluster of standard redundant servers. • Data Storage. We support industry standard storage configurations, including high availability redundant array of independent disks, or RAID, systems. • Backup/recovery. Our solution typically includes a tape library based backup and recovery system that provides backup for our database, configuration files, and digital medical images. We also offer an optional configuration with replicated content managers in two locations, enabling uninterrupted operation in the event of loss of one archive. • Workstations and Monitors. Customers typically implement our enterprise visualization software using standard personal computer workstations and high resolution monitors for visualization within the facility. • Database. Our software applications operate on Oracle database technology and other standard relational database applications. • Computed Radiography. We offer computed radiography devices manufactured by Carestream Health. Computed radiography devices convert analog X-ray images into digital images. • Advanced Three-Dimensional Analysis Tools. We offer Teracon as an option for advanced clinical applications and integrated analysis tools that complement our enterprise native visualization and workflow capabilities. Through the desktop integration of our respective products, physicians can access these advanced visualization and analysis tools and review the image data seamlessly without interrupting workflow. • Dictation. We offer a voice recognition dictation system from Lanier Worldwide for radiology reporting. • OrthoSuite. We offer a software toolset for orthopedic surgeons which is licensed from Orthocrat. Our integration with the system provides for seamless launch from our Enterprise Visualization software and storage of the images in our Enterprise Content Manager. • MammoSuite. We offer a mammography visualization and analysis solution from Cedara. Our integration with the system provides for seamless launch from our Enterprise Visualization software and storage of images in our Enterprise Content Manager. • RadSuite RIS. We offer a radiology information system (RIS) from Swearingen to complement our RadSuite visualization software for customers who desire to replace their current RIS solution. • HeartSuite ECG. We offer an ECG solution from Epiphany which provides seamless integration of ECG information with our HeartSuite VERICIS solution. • 3D Ultrasound. We offer a 3D Ultrasound visualization and analysis package from TomTec to complement our HeartSuite VERICIS visualization software. 8 Table of Contents Support Services We offer implementation, user adoption, and support services to meet the implementation and investment objectives of our customers. Our programs include the following components: • Adoption Success Management is our services program that facilitates rapid and complete adoption by all relevant constituents during the implementation phase, which typically lasts several months. • Continuous Success Management is an ongoing set of support services to ensure that our systems are highly available and optimally configured for users. Through continuous remote monitoring of our solution, we analyze system and user behaviors and, when appropriate, intervene and make the necessary adjustments to prevent anticipated problems from occurring. We provide standard twenty four hour service and support for our software and any third party components we provide to the customer. • Professional Services is our services program for managing custom engineering such as customized integrations with dictation systems, electronic medical record systems, radiology information solutions, and third-party PACS. • Migration Services is our offering to assist customers with migration of data from legacy PACS or hardware platforms to our software system. These services may include data cleansing services to ensure proper compliance with the DICOM standard. Our Strategy Our goal is to become the industry leader in enterprise level information technology solutions for the content management, workflow, and visualization of digital medical images. Key elements of our strategy include: Expand Our Market Share by Attracting New Customers. We believe a full range of healthcare organizations, from imaging centers to multisite hospital systems, represent an underserved market for our solution. Our current base of installed facilities represents a small portion of the prospective customers for our solution. We are expanding our development efforts to build solutions that will allow us to pursue new customers. We also believe there are extensions to our current product offerings that will allow us to service data elements other than DICOM as well as provide a further enhanced platform for teleradiology services. Increase Penetration With Existing Customers. We believe that using our successful relationships with existing multi-facility healthcare customers to expand our penetration within those organizations and selling additional functionality to our existing installed base are effective ways to increase our operating margins by reducing the average cost of sales and increasing the total revenue from existing customers. • Increase Product Placement with Existing Multi-Facility Customers. As of December 31, 2008, we had customer relationships with multi-facility healthcare providers that control 287 hospitals. Our initial contracts with these customers often provide for implementation of the content management functions and sometimes the advanced visualization functions of our EVMS solution at only a portion of the facilities managed by the parent company. We believe there are opportunities to expand our installed base at facilities that are part of multi-facility systems in which we have a customer relationship with the parent company. • Cross Sell to Existing Customers. We are also in position to sell additional functionality to our existing customers, including enterprise content management, enterprise visualization, specialty specific clinical suites such as RadSuite, HeartSuite, OrthoSuite, and MammoSuite, and third-party applications and services that may not have been part of the initial sale. As follow on sales opportunities, we offer our 9 Table of Contents advanced visualization software and other products and additional functionality to radiologists, cardiologists and other specialty groups within the organization. Enhance Our Product Offerings. We believe developing or acquiring additional functionality for our existing software, including improved advanced visualization suites of products for multiple specialties, will strengthen our position in the market. Further enhancements to our software and services should assist us in selling our solution to hospitals and multi—hospital systems and expanding our existing customer relationships. We also plan to invest further in workflow and integration software to further automate workflow for physicians and improve integration with reporting systems, quantitative and clinical analysis solutions, and clinical information systems, including electronic health record systems. Continue to Deliver Superior Implementation, User Adoption, and Customer Support Services. As a single source provider of enterprise visualization and image management solutions, we believe the quality of our implementation, user adoption, and support services helps to differentiate us from our competition. We expect to continue to provide our customers with the highest level of services available and to provide us with a base of recurring revenue. We believe delivering superior services will enable us to capture increased market share and enhance our existing customer relationships. Maintain Our Open Standards Focus. We believe our commitment to open standards lowers our development costs, lowers our customers’ total cost of ownership, improves speed and quality of our solution’s integration, and differentiates us from our competition. By designing our solution around open standards, we believe we maximize our solution’s integration with our customers’ clinical information technology systems and imaging devices, which reduces our customers’ total cost of ownership. We also believe our open standards model lowers the hardware costs associated with implementing our solution because it enables our customers to use relatively inexpensive hardware to visualize, analyze and manipulate images. Our Technology We believe the following technologies and strategies help us to compete more effectively: • Native DICOM Compatibility. Our software conforms to the DICOM standard for medical image storage and workflow management. DICOM is an industry standard in medical imaging that defines the data elements, communication protocols, storage formats, and workflow methods associated with medical imaging data and processes. Our software stores and manages medical images using native DICOM communications, preserves the DICOM information associated with the image, and follows DICOM workflow methods. Using native DICOM communication means our solution does not require “translation” devices for converting the DICOM information into a proprietary storage format. We believe our commitment to DICOM as the underlying protocol for our software is a competitive advantage, delivering faster streaming, more efficient storage of the image, and the ability to integrate our software to new imaging devices. • Native DICOM-Toolkit. While DICOM is an industry standard protocol for medical image data management and storage, the software toolsets used to process, manage, and use DICOM information are generally unique to particular software vendors. We have developed and own a DICOM toolkit that we believe permits us to more rapidly integrate DICOM-based information into our software and believe that the ownership and continued development of our DICOM toolkit is a core technology strategy. • Commitment to the IHE Technical Framework. The Radiological Society of North America and the Healthcare Information Management Systems Society created the Integrated Healthcare Enterprise (IHE) technical framework. IHE is a protocol for the integration of DICOM image information and HL7 text based patient information. We believe our commitment to IHE helps to ensure that our software integrates seamlessly with HL7-based clinical and financial record information systems. 10 Table of Contents • Compatibility with the OPEN GL Graphics Standard. Our enterprise visualization software performs sophisticated 3D rendering and other graphics intensive functions that provide physicians the ability to view 3D medical images for diagnosis and treatment planning. Our enterprise visualization software uses the OPEN GL graphics standard, which permits our customers to purchase relatively inexpensive personal computers and graphics hardware to perform sophisticated image analysis. • Component-Based Software Engineering. Our software architecture is based on a component based services model. Our software development framework supports common and domain specific components that can be plugged in while the system is operating. By building flexible, dynamic, reusable components, we gain flexibility to add functionality to and increase the reliability of our system because we can remedy problems at the component rather than at the entire application level. Customers Our customers range in size from imaging centers to large, multi-facility healthcare networks. As of December 31, 2008, we had installed our EVMS solution in 249 hospitals or other healthcare facilities, 202 of which are members of multi-facility networks. At December 31, 2008, we had implemented our RadSuite advanced visualization solution in 72% of our current installed EVMS customer base. There are also 293 hospitals utilizing our HeartSuite solutions in their cardiology departments. Our largest customer is Ascension Health, the largest not-for-profit hospital in the United States. Contracted implementations for Ascension Health constituted 14% of our contracted backlog as of December 31, 2008, compared to 22% as of December 31, 2007. Sales and Marketing We use a direct sales model, with sales representatives who have substantial experience in healthcare related direct sales. Our sales representatives undergo rigorous training in our products as well as the needs of each constituent group within our potential customers. During our sales cycle for a typical customer we might, at various times, present to the Chief Information Officer, the Director of Radiology or Cardiology, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Medical Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Executive Officer, and several key physicians. Each of these constituencies may have different priorities and evaluation criteria, and our direct sales representatives must be capable of presenting a compelling business case to each. Our sales representatives are supported by our sales support and marketing communications team, which provides technical, demonstration, lead generation, market development and proposal assistance. Research and Development As of December 31, 2008, we had 63 employees who were primarily dedicated to research and development activities. In addition to our employees, we also utilize outside contractors on a routine basis to perform specified research and development activities, and we utilize clinical advisory boards and end-user focus groups to advise us on the clinical functionality of our solutions. We have focused our research and development on the continued evolution of an enterprise-class medical image management solution including, specifically: • improving physician and technologist workflow and productivity; • expanding content management to cover medical documents beyond DICOM data; • expanding content management to service communities; • integrating with other information systems and acquisition devices; • developing and refining visualization capabilities including new 3D and analysis applications; 11 Table of Contents • developing integrated reporting solutions for cardiology and radiology; and • extending imaging tools to referring physicians in multiple specialties. We follow a formal product development process and employ dedicated product development personnel. Under our formal product development process, internal and customer requests for added features or functionality are forwarded to our product management team. This team evaluates and prioritizes these potential product enhancements taking into account expected costs, anticipated value to the customer, regulatory requirements, timing, and resource availability. After these enhancements are approved, our engineering team develops them and subjects them to quality testing and documentation requirements before we make them generally available to our customers. We invested $18.4 million, $18.5 million, and $13.9 million in research and development in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Competition The markets for the digital medical image management and visualization systems that we offer are highly competitive. We compete with companies that fall into four primary categories: • companies that manufacture and sell digital imaging devices such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions, and Philips Medical Systems, who may integrate some of the functionality provided by our products into their equipment or bundle it with the equipment sale; • companies that have traditionally sold imaging films such as Carestream Health, Inc., Agfa, and Fujifilm Medical Systems USA, Inc.; • companies that have traditionally sold healthcare information technology applications such as McKesson Corp.; and • a number of smaller companies that sell department level PACS or specialty visualization tools. Many of our current and potential competitors have significantly greater name recognition and more established distribution networks and relationships with healthcare providers. To compete effectively, we often must persuade the prospective customer to separate its purchasing decisions with respect to imaging equipment from its purchasing decisions with respect to content management, workflow, and visualization tools, because many of our competitors offer imaging devices that they package or bundle with licensed or owned image management applications. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors both within and outside our control, including: • product innovation, regulatory decisions, product quality and performance; • customer service and support; • the experience of our sales, marketing, and service professionals; • rapid development of new products and features; • price, product and policy decisions announced by competitors; and • adequate financial and other resources. 12 Table of Contents Intellectual Property We rely generally on a combination of trade secret and copyright law, employee and third-party nondisclosure agreements, and other protective measures to protect intellectual property rights pertaining to all of our software technology. In addition, we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our software technology. To date, four U.S. patents have been issued. In the U.S., Europe, and Japan, we have patents and a patent application generally related to DICOM-type image transmission and, in particular, to methods and apparatus for streaming DICOM-type images via a network. We have device and method patents related to improved quantitative coronary artery analysis that have issued in the U.S. and Canada. These patents, while enforceable, have limited use in our current product offerings and product development efforts. We have an exclusive, worldwide, royalty-bearing license from the UAB Research Foundation of the University of Alabama at Birmingham for certain technology used in our Clinical Content Management software. We do not own all of the software and hardware used in our solution, but we have all of the licenses from third parties we believe are necessary to offer our current solution. As we develop new products and new versions of products, it may be necessary to renegotiate with such third parties to make sure our licenses are complete and valid. In such a case, our existing third-party licensors may not be willing to make the needed licenses available on terms acceptable to us, but we believe in most cases there are alternative vendors from whom we could obtain hardware, other components or any necessary licenses for software. Emageon®, Camtronics®, Heartsuite, VERICIS®, CardioIMS, EchoIMS, Ultravisual®, Enterprise Visual Medical System, EVMS, Mammosuite, I-Readmammo, Enterprise Body Transparency, Studynotes, and our logo are our trademarks or service marks. All other trademarks, trade names and service marks appearing in this Annual Report are the property of their respective owners. Employees As of December 31, 2008, we had 306 employees, 63 of whom were primarily engaged in research and development, 58 of whom were primarily engaged in sales and marketing, 138 of whom were primarily engaged in providing technical installation and support services, and 47 of whom were primarily engaged in administration and finance. With respect to location, 90 of these employees are located at our corporate headquarters in Birmingham, Alabama; 132 of these employees are located at our offices in Hartland, Wisconsin; 19 of these employees are located at our office in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; and the remainder of our employees are located at customer locations or in regional sales and support locations. None of our employees is a party to a collective bargaining agreement, and we consider our relationship with our employees to be good. Government Regulation We market, sell, and distribute our products in the heavily regulated U.S. health care industry. Our business operations and financial arrangements in this industry may be subject to a complex array of federal laws and regulations governing medical devices. We are also subject to laws and regulations governing reimbursement and referrals because our products are used in diagnosing and treating Medicare and Medicaid patients. Moreover, a number of states have adopted their own versions of such laws and regulations, though these may vary significantly from one state to the next. Violation of such federal and state laws and regulations can result in civil and criminal penalties involving substantial fines and imprisonment. Food and Drug Administration. Our radiology and cardiology PACS, and hemodynamic measurement recording software products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, pursuant to the federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended, or the FDA Act. Each device that we wish to distribute commercially in the U.S., unless otherwise exempt, requires regulatory clearance prior to commercial distribution. 13 Table of Contents The FDA cleared 1) EVMS visualization and infrastructure tools, 2) the radiology PACS, 3) Heartsuite cardiovascular tools, 4) VERICIS hardware and software, 5) the cardiology PACS, and 6) Heartsuite Hemodynamics (formerly known as Physiolog), the hemodynamic measurement recording software, through the 510(k) notification process. We have applied, and will continue to apply, for 510(k) clearance for additional clinical uses of our devices. Clearance under the 510(k) process typically takes 90 days to over a year from the date of a complete filing, depending on the number of questions the FDA has concerning the submission. Some applications may never receive clearance because the FDA raises safety issues or requests additional data that may not be economical to produce. Therefore, there is the risk that FDA clearance for any of our future devices, or for further clinical uses of our existing devices, may be delayed or not cleared. There is also the risk that FDA clearance, once received, may contain more restrictive conditions of use than we would like. Moreover, the FDA is always free to subsequently withdraw any clearance previously granted. For cases where the 510(k) approval process is not available, the FDA’s other approval process, the pre-market approval process, or PMA, is a more costly, lengthy and uncertain process than the 510(k) process. The PMA application requires human clinical trial data to enable the FDA to evaluate whether the PMA contains sufficient, valid scientific evidence that the device is safe and effective for its intended use. The PMA process generally requires one to several years from the date the applicant submits the device for FDA review, if, in fact, the FDA ever approves the device. Even then, the FDA may condition its approval on stringent limitations regarding the indicated uses for which the device may be marketed. To date, our software and related comprehensive solutions have not required approval under the PMA process. However, there can be no assurance that our products will not require PMA approval in the future, or, in such an event, that such approval would be forthcoming. The FDA can conduct announced and unannounced inspections of our facilities at any time. We have procedures in place to ensure that protocol is followed in accordance with the FDA guidelines with respect to announced and unannounced inspections. We believe that our manufacturing operations, and those of our suppliers, comply with the FDA’s Quality System Regulations and current good manufacturing practices. Medical device manufacturers and device user facilities are required to complete Medical Device Reports, or MDRs, upon the occurrence of MDR reportable events. For device manufacturers, an MDR reportable event is one about which a manufacturer has received or becomes aware of information that reasonably suggests that one of its marketed devices caused or contributed to a death or serious injury, or has malfunctioned and the device, or a similar device marketed by the manufacturer, would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if the malfunction were to recur. The filing by manufacturers or user facilities of a significant number of MDRs with the FDA could potentially cause the FDA to commence post-marketing investigations, which could revise device labeling, include warnings, restrict use, or could even lead to a withdrawal of marketing clearances or approvals. Health Canada. Our radiology and cardiology EVMS and hemodynamic measurement recording software products are medical devices subject to extensive regulation by the Medical Devices Bureau of the Therapeutic Products Directorate, or TPD, Health Canada. Health Canada is the Canadian federal regulator responsible for licensing medical devices in accordance with the Food and Drugs Act and Regulations and the Medical Devices Regulations. The TPD applies the Food and Drug Regulations and the Medical Devices Regulations under the authority of the Food and Drugs Act to ensure that the pharmaceutical drugs and medical devices offered for sale in Canada are safe, effective and of high quality. Each device that we wish to distribute commercially in Canada, unless otherwise exempt, requires attainment of the appropriate type of medical device license prior to commercial distribution. We hold licenses to market, sell, and distribute many of our products in the Canadian health care industry. To date, we have sold no devices in the Canadian marketplace, but our intent is to market in the future all devices for which we hold licenses. We have procedures in place to ensure that we are compliant with the Canadian Medical Device Regulation as documented in the Food and Drugs Act: Medical Devices Regulations for Canada: SOR/98-282 which includes quality system certificates for ISO 13485:2003, CMDCAS for the classes of our devices. HIPAA Privacy and Security Regulations. The HIPAA Privacy Rule prohibits a covered entity from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or 14 Table of Contents is specifically required or permitted under the Privacy Rule. The Privacy Rule has imposed a complex system of requirements on covered entities for complying with this basic standard. Under the Security Rule, covered entities must establish administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. The HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules apply directly only to covered entities such as health plans, health care clearinghouses, and health care providers who engage in HIPAA-defined standard electronic transactions. We are not a covered entity, but our customers are. In order to provide to a customer certain services that may involve the use or disclosure of protected health information, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules require our customers to enter into “business associate” agreements with us, which must provide adequate written assurances with respect to, among other things, how we will use and disclose the protected health information. In addition to requiring us to provide these adequate written assurances, the business associate agreements with our customers also impose significant privacy and information security requirements on us, and there can be no assurance that we will not in the future be subject to liability in connection with those business associate agreements. Government Reimbursement. Our customer base consists of health care providers, all of whom are subject to regulation by a number of governmental agencies, including those which administer Medicare and Medicaid programs. Accordingly, our customers are sensitive to legislative and regulatory changes in, and limitations on, the government health care programs and changes in reimbursement. During recent years, there have been numerous federal legislative and administrative actions that have affected the Medicare and Medicaid programs, including past adjustments that have reduced payments to hospitals and other health care providers. For example, in an effort to curb its increasing costs associated with diagnostic imaging, the federal government has implemented a percentage reduction applicable to a certain component (i.e., the technical component) of reimbursement for combined diagnostic imaging services under specified circumstances. It is likely that the federal government will consider and could implement future reductions in Medicare reimbursement or other changes that adversely affect our health care customer base. Any such changes could adversely affect our own financial condition by reducing the capital expenditure budgets of our customers. Fraud and Abuse. A number of federal laws, loosely referred to as fraud-and-abuse laws, are used to prosecute health care providers, physicians and others that fraudulently or wrongfully obtain reimbursement that increases costs to any federal health care program. Given the breadth of these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that they will not be found applicable to our business or the financial arrangements through which we market, sell, and distribute our products. These include federal anti-kickback and self-referral laws and regulations. • Anti-Kickback Law. The anti-kickback provisions of the Social Security Act prohibit the exchange of anything of value with the intent to encourage utilization of items or services payable under a federal health care program. Courts have construed the anti-kickback law to mean that a financial arrangement will violate such law if even one of the purposes of one of the parties is to encourage patient referrals or other Medicare/Medicaid business, regardless of whether legitimate purposes also exist for the arrangement. Penalties for federal anti-kickback violations are severe. Conviction can result in up to five years imprisonment, a $25,000 fine per offense, and exclusion from participation under federal health care programs. Violators may also be assessed civil monetary penalties ranging from $10,000 to $50,000 per offense, as well as damage assessments equal to three times the total amount of the kickback. We believe that all of our arrangements with physicians and health care facilities have been fully lawful. But given the broad sweep of the federal anti-kickback law, we cannot assure you that all such arrangements will be found compliant with such law if examined by government regulators, to the extent that such regulators determine that any of our arrangements are subject to such law. • Stark Law. The Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the “Stark Law,” also prohibits certain types of referral arrangements between physicians and health care entities. Physicians are prohibited under the Stark Law, its subsequent Stark II amendment, and its implementing regulations from referring patients for “designated health services” reimbursed under the Medicare program to entities with which they or a family member have a compensatory relationship or an ownership or investment interest, unless such referrals fall within a Stark exception. Violations of the statute can result in civil monetary penalties of up to $15,000 per improper referral and exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs. We do not believe that our arrangements with physician consultants or other health care 15 Table of Contents providers violate the Stark Law, but we cannot provide assurances to such effect, nor can there be assurance that we will not in the future be subject to Stark Law penalties. • State Law. Various states have enacted equivalents of the foregoing federal statutory and regulatory provisions. These state law equivalents would apply to items or services reimbursed by any third—party payor, including commercial payors. Many of these laws vary significantly from state to state, rendering compliance a costly and uncertain endeavor. Available Information Our internet website address is www.emageon.com. We make available, free of charge through our website, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, and Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our business involves various risks and uncertainties, some of which are discussed in this section. The information discussed below should be considered carefully with the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10—K and the other documents and materials we file with the SEC, as well as news releases and other information we may publicly disseminate from time to time. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, or that we currently believe to be immaterial, may also adversely affect our business. Any of the following risks or uncertainties that develop into actual events could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations, or on the market price of our common stock. Changes in our primary market for PACS radiology systems have resulted in a significant decline in PACS radiology system sales orders. Our historical primary market for sales of our PACS radiology systems — large hospitals and large hospital networks — entered a mature phase in 2007, resulting in a shift of demand from new systems to replacement of existing legacy systems. This shift in market demand has lengthened the sales cycle for our PACS radiology systems. In addition, replacing a legacy system offers less potential return on investment as compared to installing a new system, and return on investment has historically been a significant motivating factor for large hospitals and large hospital networks to purchase our PACS radiology systems. These factors resulted in a significant decline in demand for our PACS radiology systems, and sales of those systems, in 2007 and 2008. We expect these conditions in the large system radiology market and, consequently, the decline in our PACS radiology system sales, to continue at least into 2010, which could have an adverse impact on our revenue and financial condition. Our business is subject to the cyclical nature of our industry and changes in consumer confidence and in economic and market conditions in general. Adverse changes with respect to these factors may reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues, and affect our financial condition. Our industry is cyclical in nature and is affected by changes in consumer confidence and in economic and market conditions in general, and by other factors that are beyond our control. The current global financial crisis and disruption in domestic and international capital and credit markets has caused significant erosion in consumer confidence. These factors have a strong effect on sales of our software and related services. As a result, the overall demand for our products and services has been materially and negatively affected, and the level of future sales of our products and services is uncertain. A prolonged economic downturn, and slow or negative 16 Table of Contents growth in the domestic and global economy, may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations for the foreseeable future. The ability of our customers to purchase and to pay for our products and services is affected by the availability of capital and access to credit. The ability of our customers to purchase our products and services is affected by the availability of capital and credit to them. Because the purchase of our software solutions involves a significant financial commitment by a customer, financial pressures that adversely affect overall spending on healthcare information technology and services could have an adverse effect on demand for our products and services. Recent volatility and disruption in the capital and credit markets has decreased the availability of liquidity and credit capacity for certain of our customers. Moreover, many hospitals and healthcare networks rely in part on donations and investment earnings, and are experiencing significant reductions in donations and substantial investment losses rather than gains. This reduced availability of capital and credit has caused many customers to reduce their information technology spending, which has negatively impacted sales for our products and services. Volatility in the capital and credit markets also may impair the ability of our customers to pay for our software and services for which they have already contracted. As a result, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. If our customers are unable to access capital or credit, it could materially and adversely affect their ability to pay for our products and services and, as a result, could negatively affect our business and operating results. If we are unable to develop new products, or if we are unable to upgrade the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends upon, among other things, our ability to develop and introduce “next generation” software, new software products and upgrades, and enhancements to existing software products on a timely basis. The development and introduction of new software and software upgrades is a complex process that involves a significant commitment of time and resources. Both new products and upgrades can require long development and testing periods, and are subject to a number of risks and challenges including effectively managing the length of the development cycle and extending the operation of the software products to new platforms and operating systems. In addition, we may seek to release next generation software products in conjunction with the replacement by customers of existing software systems, but if we miss a key selling period for any reason, including product development delays, our sales will suffer disproportionately. If we are unable to develop new and next generation software products or to enhance and improve our existing software products in a timely manner, or to position and/or price those products to meet market and customer demand, customers may not buy or renew software licenses, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. If the merger contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into on February 23, 2009 with AMICAS, Inc. and AMICAS Acquisition Corp. does not occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. On February 23, 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with AMICAS, Inc. and AMICAS Acquisition Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of AMICAS. Under the terms of this merger agreement, AMICAS and AMICAS Acquisition Corp. have commenced a tender offer to purchase all outstanding shares of our common stock at a price of $1.82 per share in cash. The tender offer is conditioned upon, among other things, at least a majority of our outstanding shares being tendered. Assuming that the tender offer is successful, the merger agreement provides that the tender offer will be followed by the merger of AMICAS Acquisition Corp. with and into Emageon. The tender offer commenced on March 5, 2009 and the merger is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2009. However, we cannot predict whether the closing conditions for the tender offer set forth in the merger agreement will be satisfied, and the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement may be delayed or even abandoned before completion if certain events occur. The merger agreement may be terminated by us, on one hand, or AMICAS, on the other hand, under certain circumstances, and termination of the merger agreement may require us to pay a break-up fee of $1.6 million to AMICAS. In addition, on March 13, 2009, a putative shareholder class action lawsuit was filed against us and members of our board in the Circuit Court of Jefferson County, Alabama. The action, which is described in greater detail under Item 3 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, alleges, among other things, breaches of fiduciary duty by the members of our board and seeks, among other things, to enjoin the acquisition of Emageon by AMICAS. While we believe that the allegations are entirely without merit, even a meritless lawsuit may carry with it potential to delay consummation of the tender offer and merger. Until the closing of the tender offer and merger, it is possible that the focus of our management team may be diverted, and that there may be a negative reaction to the tender offer and merger on the part of our customers, employees, suppliers, or other third-party relationships. In addition, if the closing conditions for the tender offer set forth in the merger agreement are not satisfied or waived pursuant to the merger agreement, or if the transactions are not completed for any other reason, (i) the market price of our common stock could significantly decline, (ii) we will remain liable for the significant expenses that we have incurred related to the transaction, including legal and banking fees, and (iii) we may experience substantial disruption in our sales, research and development, and operating activities, and the loss of key personnel, customers, suppliers and other third-party relationships, any of which could materially and adversely affect us and our business, operating results and financial condition. 17 Table of Contents Our prolonged investigation of strategic alternatives and the terms and conditions of our merger agreements with Health Systems Solutions and AMICAS have had and may continue to have adverse effects on our customers, personnel and other relationships as well as our operations and financial condition. In April 2007 we began an investigation of strategic alternatives aimed at identifying and evaluating available strategic alternatives, including potential divestitures or a sale of Emageon. As a result of this process, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Health Systems Solutions, Inc. in October 2008 that contained, among other things, certain restrictions on the conduct of our business between the signing of the agreement and the closing of the acquisition. That agreement was terminated in February 2009 due to Health Systems Solutions’ failure to receive all necessary financing on or before the designated closing date. Subsequently, in February 2009, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with AMICAS, Inc., pursuant to which AMICAS commenced a tender offer for all outstanding shares of our common stock. The agreement with AMICAS contains similar restrictions on the conduct of our business before the closing of the acquisition. The pendency of our strategic alternatives process and the restrictions on our business imposed by these merger agreements have had a significant effect on the day-to-day conduct of our business. For example, in some cases our customers have reacted negatively to perceived uncertainties as to our future direction and strategy in light of, among other things, the prolonged nature of the strategic alternatives process and the restrictions placed on the operation of our business by these merger agreements. In addition, this process and the restrictions on our business have at times diverted certain of our management resources. We expect these effects to continue, and they could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition. The termination of our merger agreement with Health Systems Solutions may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with Health Systems Solutions, Inc. in October 2008, which was subsequently amended in December 2008. On February 12, 2009, we terminated the merger agreement due to Health Systems Solutions’ failure to receive all necessary financing on or before the designated closing date of February 11, 2009. We incurred significant transaction costs and expenses in connection with the proposed merger transaction, and following the public announcement of the termination of the merger agreement, our stock price declined substantially. Even though we recently entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger with AMICAS, Inc., we cannot assure you that we will not continue to experience negative reactions from the financial markets, our stockholders and other constituencies as a result of the termination of the proposed merger transaction with Health Systems Solutions. In addition, the $9 million in escrowed funds that we received in connection with the termination of the Health Systems Solutions merger agreement were provided to Health Systems Solutions by Stanford International Bank Limited, its majority stockholder. Because of charges against, and ongoing investigations of, Stanford International Bank by the SEC and other federal agencies, all or a portion of 18 Table of Contents those funds could become the subject of a claim or other proceeding. If we are required to surrender these funds, or are otherwise involved in any proceedings with respect thereto, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We depend on highly specialized personnel, and the loss of, or failure to identify, hire, motivate and retain these highly specialized personnel could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. Our future success depends in part on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly specialized personnel for technical and sales positions within our organization. For example, when hiring an advanced visualization software engineer, we generally seek individuals with advanced post-graduate degrees in specialized fields. We also must identify experienced candidates for sales positions who can effectively communicate the cost, clinical, and information technology benefits of our products to multiple constituents at our target customers. Our competitors, employers in other industries, academic institutions, and governmental entities and organizations also often seek persons with similar qualifications. In addition, the uncertainties resulting from the pendency of our strategic alternatives process and our merger agreements with AMICAS and Health Systems Solutions have made it difficult to retain certain of our key personnel. As a result, we may not be able to identify and hire new personnel in a timely manner, and may not be able to motivate and retain our existing personnel. If we are unable to do so, it could significantly impact our ability to execute our strategy and manage our business. We may not be able to raise additional capital on acceptable terms to fund our operations, which could adversely affect our business. We expect our cash resources, future cash flows, and amounts available, if any, under our line of credit to be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure needs for the next twelve months. If our cash resources are not sufficient to meet our future cash requirements, we may need to raise additional funds through public or private debt or equity financings, the sale of assets, or other arrangements. Alternatively, we may be required to limit growth or curtail operations to levels consistent with the constraints imposed by available cash and cash flow. The ability to raise additional funds or obtain additional financing is limited by the tightening of the global credit markets and may be further limited by the substantial decline in our stock price over the past two years. In addition, there can be no assurance that any reductions in planned expenditures or in operations would be sufficient to cover any shortfalls in available cash. If our cash resources are inadequate and we are unable to identify additional sources of capital on acceptable terms, or to scale back our operations and expenditures to an appropriate level, our ability to successfully operate our business could be adversely affected. Recent modifications may make it difficult to access our line of credit. As of September 30 and December 31, 2008, we were in default under our existing line of credit agreement by failing to meet the tangible net worth requirement thereunder. On November 10, 2008 and March 24, 2009, respectively, we agreed to modifications of the line of credit agreement in which the bank waived our defaults. Pursuant to the modifications, future advances under the agreement, if any, will be conditioned on our being in compliance with certain financial covenants under the agreement, including the minimum tangible net worth requirement, as of the end of the preceding calendar quarter, otherwise being in compliance with the terms of the agreement, and delivering a compliance certificate, signed by our Chief Financial Officer, certifying our compliance with these conditions. There can be no assurance that we will be in compliance with these covenants, including the minimum tangible net worth covenant, as of the end of any future calendar quarter, or at such time, if any, as we determine to make a request for an advance under the agreement. We have incurred substantial operating losses in the past. We have incurred substantial operating losses in each fiscal year since our inception in December 1998, and it is possible that we will continue to incur operating losses in the future. As a result of our operating losses, we had an accumulated deficit of $106.8 million at December 31, 2008. If our revenue does not grow to offset our expenses or if our operating expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be profitable and may incur substantial additional operating losses. Our ability to achieve and maintain annual profitability will depend on, among other things, our ability to market successfully our solution, create 19 Table of Contents new product offerings and product upgrades, respond to competitive developments, and attract and retain qualified sales, technical, and management employees. Even if we achieve profitability, we may not be able to maintain profitable operations on an annual basis. Our products are complex and are operated in a wide variety of network configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. Because our software is complex, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur when we first introduce our products or when we release new versions. As we develop product enhancements, extensions and upgrades, the complexity of our software may increase. Our products often are installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, any of which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. In the past, we have encountered failures in certain of our product offerings after their installation, and we have been required to expend significant resources to repair the problem and sustain the customer relationship. Despite testing by us and by others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after general release. The occurrence or existence of such errors, failures, or bugs in our products could result in negative publicity, contract cancellations, loss of or delay in market acceptance, or claims by customers or others. In addition, if an actual or perceived breach of network security occurs in one of our customers’ medical image storage systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our solution, the market perception of our products and services could be harmed. We may not be able to respond to changes in our industry, competitive technologies, changes in customer requirements, or evolving industry standards, which would result in reduced revenue and profit margins. Because our industry is subject to rapid technological change, we must constantly monitor changes in industry standards, customer requirements, and other matters. Although we endeavor to support emerging industry standards, we cannot assure you that we will be able to conform to future evolving standards in a timely fashion, or that such conformity, if achieved, will benefit our competitive position in the market. In anticipation of new product introductions by us or our competitors, customers could refrain from purchasing our existing products. New products could render certain of our existing products obsolete, or we may fail to develop product enhancements or new products that are accepted by our customers. Furthermore, as the market for our solution matures, we may be subject to pricing pressures, and our revenues and profits may decline. Any of these events could delay or prevent our customers from acquiring our solution or require us to reduce the price of our solution, either of which could lead to a decrease in revenue and profit margins. The loss of Ascension Health or other major customers could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition because portions of our future revenues are tied to continuing relationships with significant customers. We have historically depended on a small number of customers for a substantial portion of our sales, and we are dependent on Ascension Health for a large portion of the revenue to come from our contracted backlog. Contracted future revenue from Ascension Health was approximately $18.0 million, or 14%, of our contracted backlog at December 31, 2008. In addition, our future revenue and growth significantly depend on our ability to sell add-on functionality and new products to existing multi-facility customers such as Ascension Health. As a result, the loss of Ascension Health or any other major customers or their failure to renew maintenance and support agreements with us could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and operating results. We are dependent on our senior executive management, and the loss of any member of senior executive management may prevent us from managing and growing our business effectively. Our success depends largely on the continued service of our senior executive management, including Charles A. Jett, Jr., our President and Chief Executive Officer; John Wilhoite, our Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer; and Keith Stahlhut, our Chief Operating Officer (Interim) and Senior Vice President, Sales. We have entered into executive employment agreements with these and other key members of senior executive management. Terms of the employment agreements with Mr. Jett, Mr. Wilhoite, and Mr. Stahlhut are two years, one year, and six months, respectively, with automatic renewal on a day-to-day basis thereafter unless we or they give notice to stop 20 Table of Contents the automatic renewal. The loss of any of our senior executive officers could have an adverse impact on our ability to manage and grow our business effectively. We cannot assure you that in such an event we would be able to replace any member of senior executive management in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. Our industry includes many large companies that have significantly greater resources and other competitive advantages, and we may not be able to compete successfully against these competitors. We compete with large, well—capitalized, multinational corporations such as GE Healthcare, Siemens Medical Solutions, McKesson Corp., and Philips Medical Systems. These competitors have significantly greater brand recognition and more established distribution networks and relationships with health care providers. As our market grows, it may attract other competitors with substantial resources, such as large information technology, or IT, integration companies. Because of their greater resources, many of our existing or potential competitors can respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies or product lines and changes in customer requirements. These companies may also be able to invest more resources in research and development, strategic acquisitions, sales and marketing, and patent prosecution and litigation, and they can also finance capital equipment sales for their customers. In addition, some of our competitors bundle their image management software products with their sales of digital imaging devices at little or no extra cost. This practice may limit our opportunity to compete for customers who are also purchasing these devices. Our ability to market and sell our solution successfully to prospective customers depends, in part, on persuading these customers to separate the purchase of digital imaging devices from the selection and purchase of related software and services. Because we may not have the financial resources, technical expertise, marketing, distribution and support capabilities of our competitors, we may not be able to compete successfully against our current and future competitors. Our operating results may fluctuate, which makes quarterly results difficult to predict and could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of many factors which are outside our control. Comparing our operating results on a quarter-to-quarter basis may not be meaningful, and you should not rely on our past results as an indication of future performance. Each of the following factors, among others, could cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter: • Long Sales Cycle: Many of our customers are large organizations with lengthy and unpredictable purchasing processes. Because our solution is a major capital expenditure involving a multi-year commitment, it can take a significant period of time to close a sale. We typically have to educate our prospective customers on the benefits of our solution and obtain approval from senior management. Consolidation in the health care industry may also delay or extend the sales cycle for affected customers. As a result, our solution has a typical sales cycle, from the initial contact to the placing of an order, of six to nine months, and sometimes much longer. This long and unpredictable sales cycle may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. • Timing of Revenue: A significant portion of our revenue each quarter comes from sales made in prior periods, as we implement our solution and perform services under multi-year maintenance and support agreements with our customers. As a result, a decline in sales, client renewals, or market acceptance of our products in a particular quarter will not necessarily be reflected in revenue in that quarter and may adversely affect our revenue and profitability in future quarters. Moreover, a majority of our customers now purchase perpetual licenses from us. Unlike term licenses, where license revenue and certain implementation fees are recognized over the life of an initial term typically ranging from two to seven years, with perpetual licenses the full software license fee and associated implementation fees are recognized as revenue in the month when all revenue recognition criteria are met. Because revenue recognition may not be achieved in the period expected, our revenue could fluctuate from quarter to quarter solely due to the timing of satisfying our revenue recognition criteria. • Implementation Delays: Once we enter into a customer contract, our recognition of revenue from that contract depends, to a significant extent, on the timing of our implementation of the project. Customer implementation schedules may be delayed for reasons beyond our control, such as customer scheduling 21 Table of Contents changes, delays in acceptance testing by customers, unusual integration issues, or delays in obtaining equipment from third-party vendors. Delays in the implementation of a particular project may require us to delay the recognition of anticipated revenue from one quarter to another and may contribute to substantial fluctuations in our quarterly operating results. Our quarterly results also may fluctuate due to other factors, such as the timing of new product introductions and product enhancements by us or our competitors and changes in the mix of our software and third-party components, which have significantly lower gross margins, included in the systems we sell. If our revenue varies significantly from quarter to quarter, we may have difficulty managing our business, and our quarterly results could fall below expectations of investors and stock market analysts which could cause our stock price to decline or exhibit volatility. Our operating results could suffer if we become subject to a protracted infringement claim or litigation or a significant damage award. Substantial intellectual property litigation and threats of litigation exist in our industry. We have been subject to third-party infringement claims, and expect that digital image visualization software, image management software, and open source software products will continue to be subject to third-party infringement or other claims as the number of competitors grows and the functionality of products increases. Any claims, with or without merit, could have the following negative consequences: • costly litigation and damage awards; • diversion of management attention and resources; • product sales and distribution delays or suspensions, either temporary or permanent; and • the need to enter into royalty or licensing agreements, which may not be available on terms acceptable to us, if at all. A successful infringement or other claim against us could result in a substantial damage award and materially harm our financial condition. Our failure or inability to license the infringed or similar technology could prevent us from selling our products and adversely affect our business and financial results. If we fail to obtain or maintain necessary FDA clearances for our products, if such clearances are delayed, or if our products are subject to FDA recall, we will be unable to distribute and market some of our products. Our advanced visualization software products are subject to FDA regulation of medical devices. Medical devices are a highly regulated class of products. The FDA regulates the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, promotion, and record—keeping procedures for medical devices, including imaging software and systems. The process of obtaining FDA marketing clearance for new products and new applications for existing products can be time consuming and expensive. The FDA has granted us marketing clearance, pursuant to the 510(k) pre—market notification process, for our currently marketed uses of our advanced visualization tools. Before we can market other clinical uses of our advanced visualization tools, generally we must seek 510(k) clearance for the additional clinical uses. We cannot assure you that the FDA will grant clearance for future uses of our advanced visualization tools, that such clearance will be broad enough to allow all the requested new uses, that such clearance will not be delayed, or that once clearance is obtained, it will not be necessary for us or the FDA to recall one or more of our products. Also, the FDA may not grant clearance with respect to our future products or enhancements, or future FDA reviews may involve delays that could adversely affect our ability to market such future products or enhancements. Moreover, our future products or enhancements may be subject to the FDA’s more lengthy and expensive pre-market approval process if we are unable to demonstrate that such products and enhancements meet the FDA’s requirements regarding similarity to pre—existing approved devices. Furthermore, it is possible that even if we receive required regulatory clearances and approvals from the FDA to market a given product, these clearances and approvals may include limitations on the indicated uses of the product. Also, the FDA can withdraw product clearances and approvals due to failure to comply with regulatory standards, quality system manufacturing regulations, unapproved manufacturing changes, or, if unforeseen problems arise after 22 Table of Contents initial approval, the FDA could also limit or prevent our distribution of products. We might conduct a voluntary recall or the FDA could recall such products if it deems them defective, a health risk, or in violation of FDA regulations. These regulations depend heavily on administrative interpretation, and any such future interpretations could adversely affect us. The FDA may also inspect us and our facilities from time to time, or the facilities of our suppliers, to determine whether we are in compliance with quality system regulations and current good manufacturing practices. If the FDA determines that we are not in compliance with such regulations, it could require us to correct these deficiencies or could suspend the manufacture and sale of the products. The agency could also impose civil penalties, including fines, recall or seize products and, in extreme cases, impose criminal sanctions. If we fail to comply with other potentially applicable health care regulations, we could face substantial penalties. We do not deliver health care services directly to patients, control health care referrals, or submit claims to or otherwise bill Medicare, Medicaid, or any other third—party payors. However, we have engaged certain physicians to serve as consultants on our behalf, entered into service agreements and license agreements with health care entities, and had certain of our products evaluated at health care facilities. Relationships between medical device companies and physician consultants have been under increasing scrutiny by the government. Because of the breadth of many health care laws and regulations, and their potential impact on our customers, we cannot assure you that such laws and regulations will not apply to our business, either directly or indirectly. We could be subject to health care fraud and patient privacy regulation by both the federal government and the states in which we conduct our business. The regulations that may affect our ability to operate include the following: • The Federal Anti—Kickback Statute prohibits the exchange of anything of value with the intent to encourage utilization of services payable under a federal health care program. Courts have construed this statute as being implicated even when only one of the purposes of one of the parties is to encourage patient referrals or other federal health care business, even if legitimate purposes also exist for the arrangement. • The Federal Ethics in Patient Referrals Act, known as the Stark Law, prohibits (absent an applicable Stark exception) referrals for designated health services reimbursable under Medicare or Medicaid by a physician to an entity with which the physician, or an immediate family member, has a financial relationship. • The Federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, has increased the scope of federal fraud and abuse laws by applying them to prohibit fraudulent conduct in connection with any health care benefit program, not only federal health care programs. Although we are not a covered entity that is directly subject to liability under the HIPAA privacy and security standards, we could be impacted by such regulations through contractual relations with those of our customer base who are covered entities. • State law equivalents of each of the above federal laws, such as anti-kickback, self-referral, and false claims laws, may apply to items or services reimbursed by any third-party payor (including commercial insurers). State laws governing the privacy of health information in certain circumstances, many of which differ from each other in significant ways and often are not preempted by HIPAA (thus complicating compliance efforts) and some of which may apply to us directly, may also affect our operations. If our operations are found to violate any of these laws or other governmental regulations, we may be subject to penalties, including civil and criminal penalties, damages, fines, and the curtailment or restructuring of our operations. Any such occurrences could adversely affect our ability to operate our business and our financial results. Determining such risk is complicated by the fact that many of these laws and regulations have not been fully interpreted by governing regulatory authorities or the courts, and many of the provisions of such laws and regulations are open to a wide range of interpretations. Any action against us for violating such laws or regulations, even if we successfully defend such an action, could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and divert our management’s attention from the operation of our business. Moreover, compliance with applicable federal and state 23 Table of Contents privacy, security, and electronic transaction laws may require us to modify our operations with respect to the handling of patient information. Implementing these modifications may prove costly and time consuming. At this time, we are not able to determine the full consequences to us, including the total cost of compliance, of these various federal and state laws. Product liability claims may require us to pay damages, reduce the demand for our products, and harm our reputation. Our business exposes us to a risk of product liability claims and other adverse effects of product failures. We provide products that, among other things, assist in clinical decision-making, provide access to patient medical image information and assist in creating patient treatment plans. Although no one has brought a claim against us to date alleging that they suffered damages due to a defect or other failure of any of our products, our customers or their patients may assert claims against us in the future if our software fails to provide accurate and timely information. A product liability claim can cause us to incur significant legal defense costs and adverse publicity regardless of the claim’s merit or eventual outcome. If we are required to pay damages that exceed our insurance coverage to one or more plaintiffs, such payments could significantly harm our financial condition. A product liability claim also could harm our reputation and lead to a decline in revenue. We attempt to limit by contract our liability for damages arising from negligence, errors, or mistakes. Despite this precaution, such contract provisions may not be enforceable or may not otherwise protect us from liability for damages. We maintain general liability insurance coverage, including coverage for errors or omissions. However, this coverage may not be sufficient to cover one or more large claims against us or otherwise continue to be available on terms acceptable to us. In addition, the insurer could disclaim coverage as to any future claim. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights, our competitors may take advantage of our ideas to compete more effectively with us. We rely on a combination of copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology and other intellectual property rights. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage based on our intellectual property. In addition, we have filed patent applications to protect certain aspects of our software technology. We cannot assure you that these patent applications will result in patents being issued in the U.S., Europe, or Japan, or that such patents will be issued in a form that will be advantageous to us. Even if we obtain such patents, they may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by employees. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs to us and substantial diversion of management attention. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors could use it to enhance their products. Additionally, because we use or include open source software, which is not proprietary, in the components of some of our products, our competitors may freely use such open source software, and in certain circumstances may freely use such components. This could harm our competitive position, decrease our market share or otherwise harm our business. The prosecution and enforcement of copyrights and patents relating to components licensed or sold to us by third parties is not within our control, and without these components, we may be unable to provide our solution or maintain our technological advantage. If the third—party suppliers of components used by us fail to protect their patents or copyrights or if these components are found to infringe on the rights of another party, the functionality of our products could suffer, and our ability to bring new and existing products to market could be delayed or even prohibited. Our directors may not be held personally liable for certain actions, which could discourage stockholder suits against them. As permitted by Delaware law, our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that our directors shall not be personally liable to us or our stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, with limited exceptions. These provisions may discourage stockholders from bringing suit against a 24 Table of Contents director for breach of fiduciary duty and may reduce the likelihood of derivative litigation brought by stockholders on our behalf against a director. In addition, we provide for mandatory indemnification of directors and officers to the fullest extent permitted by Delaware law and have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and officers. Delaware law and certain anti—takeover provisions of our corporate documents could delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us or a change in control even if it would benefit our stockholders. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain a number of provisions that may delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control that is not first approved by our board of directors. This could occur even if our stockholders receive an attractive offer for their shares or if a substantial number, or even a majority, of our stockholders believe the takeover may be in their best interest. These provisions are intended to encourage any person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with and obtain approval from our board of directors prior to pursuing a transaction. Provisions that could delay, deter, or inhibit a future acquisition or change in control include the following: • our board of directors may issue 200,000 shares of blank check preferred stock without stockholder approval and that may be substantially dilutive or contain preferences or rights objectionable to an acquiror; • our board of directors is comprised of classes of directors with staggered, three—year terms so that only a portion of our directors is subject to election at each annual meeting; • our board of directors can amend our bylaws without stockholder approval; • stockholders cannot call special meetings of stockholders; • stockholders cannot act by written consent; • stockholders must give advance notice to nominate directors for election or to submit proposals at stockholder meetings; • we may be obligated to make payments under executive employment agreements in the event of a change in control; and • some Delaware statutes restrict or prohibit certain transactions with affiliated or interested parties and permit the adoption of “poison pills” without stockholder approval. These provisions could also discourage bids for our common stock at a premium and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these provisions may also entrench our management by preventing or frustrating any attempt by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. 