D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our results of operations are subject to cyclicality and volatility affecting both our raw material prices and our selling prices. Our business is largely dependent on the cost and supply of corn, soy meal, soybeans, hogs, milk and other raw materials, as well as the selling prices of our poultry, pork, beef and dairy products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand, which may fluctuate significantly, and other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include, among others, fluctuations in local and global poultry, hog, cattle and milk production levels, environmental and conservation regulations, economic conditions, weather, animal and crop diseases, cost of international freight and exchange rate fluctuations, a particular concern given the recent significant depreciation of the Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar. Our industry, both in Brazil and abroad, is also characterized by cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. We are not able to mitigate these risks entirely. Although not usual in our industry, we negotiate long-term contracts with some of our suppliers, especially soybean meal and soybean oil. In 2014, the average corn price in Brazil was 0.5% higher than the average corn price in 2013. Corn prices in December 2014 were 12.7% higher than in December 2013, mostly because of the depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar in the last quarter of 2014. In 2014, the average soybean meal price in Brazil was 5.3% higher than the average price in 2013, and comparing December 2013 to December 2014, soybean meal prices in Brazil were down by 9.1%. The effect of decreases or increases in the price of raw materials on our gross margin is greater for our products that are similar to commodities in nature, rather than our value-added products. They are also affected by political and market conditions in the regions where suppliers are located. Our financial performance is also affected by domestic and international freight costs, which are vulnerable to volatility in the price of oil. We may not be successful in addressing the effects of cyclicality and volatility on costs and expenses or the pricing of our products, and our overall financial performance may be adversely affected. Natural disasters, pandemics or extreme weather, including floods, excessive cold or heat, hurricanes or other storms, as well as fires, such as a recent one we experienced at our plant in Toledo that required the temporary re-allocation of plant functions to other facilities, could impair the health or growth of livestock or interfere with our operations due to power outages, damage to our production and processing facilities or disruption in transportation channels or information systems, among other issues. 10 Table of Contents Health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by contamination or food spoilage, evolving nutritional and health-related concerns, consumer product liability claims, product tampering, the possible unavailability and expense of liability insurance and the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Among such risks are those related to raising animals, including disease and adverse weather conditions. Meat is subject to contamination during processing and distribution. Contamination during processing could affect a large number of our products and therefore could have a significant impact on our operations. Our sales are dependent on consumer preferences and any actual or perceived health risks associated with our products, including any adverse publicity concerning these risks, could cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products, reducing the level of consumption of those products. Even if our own products are not affected by contamination, our industry may face adverse publicity if the products of other producers become contaminated, which could result in reduced consumer demand for our products in the affected category. We maintain systems designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the production process (including the production of poultry, hogs, cattle and dairy products) but any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Recent and future acquisitions or joint ventures may divert management resources or prove to be disruptive to our company. We regularly review and pursue opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions, joint ventures and other initiatives. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years, such as the acquisitions in 2014 of all economic rights in Federal Foods Limited, a company headquartered in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates; a 40% stake in Al Khan Foods in the Sultanate of Oman; and a 75% stake in Alyasra Food Company’s frozen retail distribution business in the State of Kuwait. Also, on October 1, 2014, Minerva incorporated all of the shares of a BRF subsidiary in exchange for 16.29% of the total and voting capital of Minerva at that date. For more details on these and other transactions, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Other Acquisitions and Investments in 2014.” Acquisitions, new businesses and joint ventures, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational risks and uncertainties, including: · challenges in realizing the anticipated benefits of the transaction; · diversion of management attention from existing businesses; · difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems; · difficulty identifying suitable candidate businesses or consummating a transaction on terms that are favorable to us; · challenges in retaining an acquired company’s customers and key employees; · increased compensation expenses for newly hired employees; and · exposure to unforeseen liabilities or problems of the acquired companies or joint ventures; Acquisitions outside of Brazil may present additional difficulties, such as compliance with foreign legal and regulatory systems and integration of personnel to different managerial practices and would increase our exposure to risks associated with international operations. We may be unable to realize synergies and efficiency gains from our recent acquisitions in the timeframe we anticipate or at all, because of integration or other challenges. In addition, we may be unable to identify, negotiate or finance future acquisitions, particularly as part of our international growth strategy, successfully or at favorable valuations, or to effectively integrate these acquisitions or joint venture businesses with our current businesses. Any future joint ventures or acquisitions of businesses, technologies, services or products might require us to obtain additional equity or debt financing, which may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. Future acquisitions and joint ventures may also results in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures, as well as strain on our organizational culture. 11 Table of Contents We may not be able to fully execute our business strategy. Our ability to implement our business strategy depends on a number of factors, including our ability to: · Maximize operating efficiencies through economies of scale and synergies; · Identify and negotiate favorable terms for future acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures; and · Continue to expand and gain market share in new international markets; We have entered, and may decide to enter, into joint ventures to implement our strategy. To the extent we operate through joint ventures, we are subject to the risks inherent in joint venture structures, including the risk of disagreements with our joint venture partners, limitations on our ability to manage our business independently under the terms of the applicable joint venture agreements and the risk or encountering difficulty in exiting from joint venture arrangements if we wish to do so. Deterioration of general economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian and global economic conditions, which may result in increased volatility in our markets and contribute to net losses. At the end of 2014 the price of oil declined significantly and is expected to lead to lower economic growth in relevant oil dependent regions, such as several Middle East countries, Russia, Venezuela and Angola. Thus, per capita meat consumption in these areas could be affected as well. Because of the global nature of our business, we remain subject to the risk of economic volatility worldwide, and economic and political disruptions around the world can have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Raising animals and meat processing involve animal health and disease control risks, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve raising poultry and hogs and processing meat from poultry, hogs and cattle, as well as the purchase of milk and the sale of milk and dairy products, which require us to maintain animal health and control disease. We could be required to destroy animals or suspend the sale of some of our products to customers in Brazil and abroad in the event of an outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as the following: (1) in the case of hogs, cattle and certain other animals, foot-and-mouth disease and A(H5N1) influenza (discussed below); (2) in the case of cattle, foot-and-mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, or “BSE,” known as “mad cow disease;” and, less likely, (3) in the case of poultry, avian influenza and Newcastle disease. In addition, if the Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome and Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea, which have outbroken in Europe and the United States, were to outbreak in Brazil, we could be required to destroy hogs. Destruction of poultry, hogs or other animals would preclude recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing these animals and result in additional expense for the disposal of such animals. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease could have an effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock for purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain markets, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 12 Table of Contents Outbreaks, or fears of outbreaks, of any of these or other animal diseases may lead to cancellation of orders by our customers and, particularly if the disease has the potential to affect humans, create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for our products. Moreover, outbreaks of animal disease in Brazil may result in foreign governmental action to close export markets to some or all of our products, which may result in the destruction of some or all of these animals. Our poultry business in Brazilian and export markets could also be negatively affected by avian influenza. Chicken and other birds in some countries, particularly in Asia but also in Europe and Africa, have become infected by highly pathogenic avian influenza (the H1N1 virus). In a small number of cases, the avian influenza has been transmitted from birds to humans, resulting in illness and, on occasion, death. Accordingly, health authorities in many countries have taken steps to prevent outbreaks of this viral disease, including destruction of afflicted poultry flocks. Between 2003 and the first week of 2015, there have been over 1,147 human cases of avian influenza and over 577 related deaths, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) and Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO). The cases reported were caused by the H5N1 and H7N9 viruses. In 2013, direct human-to-human transmission of the H7N9 virus was proven. Various countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa reported human cases in the last five years and various European countries reported avian flu cases in poultry. More recently, in 2014, there were reports of human cases of avian influenza in Egypt, Indonesia, Cambodia, China and Vietnam. In the Americas, there were reports of human cases of avian influenza in both Canada and the United States. In early 2015, additional new cases of H5N1 and H5N2 were reported in the United States, which has already resulted in restrictions on U.S. exports. To date, Brazil has not had a documented case of avian influenza, although there are concerns that an outbreak of avian influenza may occur in the country in the future. Any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil could lead to required destruction of our poultry flocks, which would result in decreased sales of poultry by us, prevent recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing such poultry, and result in additional expense for the disposal of destroyed poultry. In addition, any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil would likely lead to immediate restrictions on the export of some of our products to key export markets. Preventive actions adopted by Brazilian authorities, if any, may not be effective in precluding the spread of avian influenza within Brazil. Whether or not an outbreak of avian influenza occurs in Brazil, further outbreaks of avian influenza anywhere in the world could have a negative impact on the consumption of poultry in our key export markets or in Brazil, and a significant outbreak would negatively affect our net sales and overall financial performance. Any outbreak could lead to the imposition of costly preventive controls on poultry imports in our export markets. Accordingly, any spread of avian influenza, or increasing concerns about this disease, may have a material and adverse effect on our company. We may also be subject from time to time to additional outbreaks of animal-related diseases, such as Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea and foot-and-mouth disease affecting cattle. See “Item 5: Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Effect of Animal Diseases—Other Animal Diseases” for further information. More stringent trade barriers in key export markets may negatively affect our results of operations. Because of the growing market share of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef products in the international markets, Brazilian exporters are increasingly being affected by measures taken by importing countries to protect local producers. The competitiveness of Brazilian companies has led certain countries to establish trade barriers to limit the access of Brazilian companies to their markets. Trade barriers can consist of both tariffs and non-tariff barriers. In our industry, non-tariff barriers are a particular concern, especially sanitary and technical restrictions. Some countries, such as Russia, have a history of erecting trade barriers to imports of food products. In June 2011, Russia imposed restrictions on imports of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef from about 100 producing units due to alleged sanitary concerns, including a complete ban on imports from the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Mato Grosso. In August 2014, the banishment was suspended. 13 Table of Contents We have been affected by trade barriers imposed by a number of other countries from time to time. In June 2011, South Africa initiated an anti-dumping investigation against Brazilian chicken. In a preliminary determination, the South African government imposed substantial tariffs on these products (62.9% on whole chicken and 46.5% on boneless cuts), which temporarily interrupted Brazilian exports. The final resolution of the investigation was announced in December 2012 in favor of Brazil, with no application of anti-dumping penalties. In Europe, another of our key markets, the European Union has adopted a quota system for certain chicken products and prohibitive tariffs for certain products that do not have quotas in order to mitigate the effects of Brazil’s lower production costs on local producers over European producers. In addition, the European Union has a ban on certain types of Brazilian meat, including pork, fresh cuts and some premium cuts of frozen beef backs. In addition, many developed countries use direct and indirect subsidies to enhance the competitiveness of their producers in other markets. In addition, local producers in some markets may exert political pressure on their governments to prevent foreign producers from exporting to their market, particularly during unfavorable economic conditions. Any of the above restrictions could substantially affect our export volumes and, consequently, our export sales and financial performance. If new trade barriers arise in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business, financial condition and results of operations might be adversely affected. We face significant competition from Brazilian and foreign producers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We face strong competition from other Brazilian producers in our domestic market and from Brazilian and foreign producers in our export markets. The Brazilian market for whole poultry and poultry and pork cuts is highly fragmented. Small producers can also be important competitors, some of which operate in the informal economy and are able to offer lower prices by meeting lower quality standards. Competition from small producers is a primary reason why we sell most of our frozen (in natura) meat products in the export markets and is a barrier to expanding our sales of those products in the domestic market. With respect to exports, we compete with other large, vertically integrated Brazilian producers that have the ability to produce quality products at low cost, as well as with foreign producers. In addition, the potential growth of the Brazilian market for processed food, poultry, pork and beef and Brazil’s low production costs are attractive to international competitors. Although the main barrier to these companies has been the need to build comprehensive distribution and outgrowers networks, international competitors with significant resources could undertake to build these networks or acquire and expand existing networks. The Brazilian poultry and pork cuts markets, in particular, are highly price-competitive and sensitive to product substitution. Even if we remain a low-cost producer, customers may seek to diversify their sources of supply by purchasing a portion of the products they need from producers in other countries, as some of our customers in key export markets have begun to do. We expect that we will continue to face strong competition in all of our markets and anticipate that existing or new competitors may broaden their product lines and extend their geographic scope. Any failure by us to respond to product, pricing and other moves by competitors may negatively affect our financial performance. Our international sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. International sales account for a significant portion of our net sales, representing 41.6% in 2012, 48.1% in 2013 and 46.8% in 2014. Our major international markets include the Middle East (particularly Saudi Arabia), Asia (particularly Japan, Hong Kong, Singapore and China), Europe, Eurasia (particularly Russia), Africa and Americas (particularly Argentina), where we are subject to many of the same risks described below in relation to Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on the economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. 14 Table of Contents Our future ability to conduct business in our export markets could be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as the following: · exchange rate fluctuations; · deterioration in international economic conditions; · impacts on the economy following sharp variations in energy prices; · political risks, such as turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, government policies in Argentina and political instability in Venezuela; · decreases in demand, particularly from large markets such as China; · imposition of increased tariffs, anti-dumping duties or other trade barriers; · strikes or other events affecting ports and other transport facilities; · compliance with differing foreign legal and regulatory regimes; and · sabotage affecting our products. The market dynamics of our important export markets can change quickly and unpredictably due to these factors, the imposition of trade barriers of the type described above and other factors, which together can significantly affect our export volumes, selling prices and results of operations. Our international sales are highly dependent on conditions at a small number of ports in southern Brazil. We export our products primarily through ports in southern Brazil (Paraná, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul). We have been affected from time to time by strikes of port employees or customs agents, sanitary inspection agents and other government agents at the Brazilian ports from which we export our products. For example, in August 2011, a strike at the Itajaí port affected exports for approximately two months. In the middle of 2012, a strike of Brazilian Sanitary Inspection Agency (Agência Nacional de Vigilância Sanitária, or Anvisa) and a nationwide strike of truckers also hampered our export operations. A widespread or protracted strike in the future could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In 2012, we had new strikes from Anvisa and employees of the federal government. In addition, flooding and similar events affecting the infrastructure necessary for the export of our products could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. Political and economic risks in Middle East could limit the profitability of our operations and our ability to execute our strategy in that region. In 2014, we finished construction of a new plant in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates in the Middle East. In addition to being subject to the general risks of international operations described above, we are now subject to the specific risks associated with the fact that the production and distribution capacity we hope to achieve through the project could be lower than our expectations, in each case for a variety of reasons, including (1) governmental inertia, (2) geopolitical risk, (3) imposition of exchange or price controls, (4) imposition of restrictions on exports of our products or imports of raw materials necessary for our production, (5) fluctuation of local currencies against the real, (6) nationalization of our property, (7) increase in export tax and income tax rates for our products, and (8) unilateral (governmental) institutional and contractual changes, including controls on investments and limitations on new projects. As a result of these factors, the results of operations and financial conditions of our operations in the Middle East may be adversely affected, and we may experience in the future significant variability in our revenue on both an annual and a quarterly basis from those operations. The impact of these changes on our ability to deliver on our planned projects and execute our strategy cannot be ascertained with any degree of certainty, and these changes may, therefore, have an adverse effect on our operations and financial results. 15 Table of Contents Political and economic risks in Argentina could limit the profitability of our operations and our ability to execute our strategy in that country. We have seven production facilities in Argentina, and we view growth of our business in Argentina as an important component of our strategy in South America. We estimate that our integrated operations in the Argentine market represent over R$1 billion of sales per year. However, executing our strategy in Argentina is subject to significant political and economic risks. Political and economic conditions have been volatile in that country for more than a decade. Economic uncertainty, inflation and other factors could lead to lower real salaries, lower consumption and unemployment, which could have an adverse effect on demand for our products. In addition, Argentine government policies may adversely affect our ability to realize a return on our investment in Argentina. For example, the government has imposed restrictions on the conversion of Argentine currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds of their investments in Argentina. In April 2012, the Argentine government’s effective nationalization of YPF S.A., Argentina’s leading energy company, led to a dramatic decline in the prices of Argentine securities and great concern among international investors. Argentine government intervention, investor reactions and economic uncertainty in Argentina could adversely affect the profitability of our operations and our ability to execute our strategy in that country. Increased regulation of food safety could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to regular Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, governmental inspections and extensive regulation in the food safety area, including governmental food processing controls. We currently comply with all food safety requirements in the markets where we conduct our business. We already incur significant costs in connection with this compliance and changes in government regulations relating to food safety could require us to make additional investments or incur additional costs to meet the necessary specifications for our products. Our products are often inspected by foreign food safety officials, and any failure to pass those inspections can result in our being required to return all or part of a shipment to Brazil, destroy all or part of a shipment or incur costs because of delays in delivering products to our customers. Any tightening of food safety regulations could result in increased costs and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our performance depends on favorable labor relations with our employees and our compliance with labor laws. Any deterioration of those relations or increase in labor costs could adversely affect our business. As of December 31, 2014, we had a total of 108,829 employees worldwide. All of our production employees are represented by labor unions. Upon the expiration of existing collective bargaining agreements or other collective labor agreements, we may not reach new agreements without union action and any such agreements may not be on terms satisfactory to us, which could result in us paying higher wages or benefits to union workers. If we are unable to negotiate acceptable union agreements, we may become subject to work stoppages or strikes. Labor costs are among our most significant expenditures. In 2014, they represented 13.9% of our cost of goods sold, representing a decrease of 0.9% compared to 2013. In the ordinary course of business, we outsource labor to third parties. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Production Process.” If it were to become necessary to revisit this contractual structure, we could incur additional operating expenses. Environmental laws and regulations require increasing expenditures for compliance. We, like other Brazilian food producers, are subject to extensive Brazilian federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations, authorizations and licenses concerning, among other things, the handling and disposal of waste, discharges of pollutants into the air, water and soil, and clean-up of contamination, all of which affect our business. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any lack of authorizations or licenses could result in administrative and criminal penalties, such as fines, cancellation of authorizations or revocation of licenses, in addition to negative publicity and civil liability for remediation or for environmental damage. We cannot operate a plant if the required environmental permit is not valid or updated. 16 Table of Contents We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Because of the possibility of unanticipated regulatory measures or other developments, particularly as environmental laws become more stringent in Brazil, the amount and timing of future expenditures required to maintain compliance could increase from current levels and could adversely affect the availability of funds for capital expenditures and other purposes. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations, as well as obligations in agreements with public entities, could result in increased costs and expenses. Our plants are subject to environmental licensing, based on their pollution potential and usage of natural resources. If, for example, one of our plants is built or expanded without an environmental license or if our environmental licenses expire, are not renewed or have their solicitation of renewal dismissed by the competent environmental authority, we may incur fines ranging between R$500 to R$10 million and other administrative penalties, suspension of operations or closing of the facilities in question. Those same penalties may also be applicable in the case of failure to fulfill the conditions of validity foreseen in the environmental licenses already held by us. Currently, some of our environmental licenses are being renewed, and we cannot guarantee that environmental agencies will approve our renewal requests within the required legal period. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings may reduce our liquidity and negatively affect us. We are defendants in civil, labor and tax proceedings and are also subject to consent agreements (Termo de Ajustamento de Conduta, or “TAC”). Under IFRS, we classify the risk of adverse results in legal proceedings as “remote,” “possible” or “probable.” We disclose the aggregate amounts of these proceedings that we have judged possible or probable, to the extent the amounts are known or reasonably estimable, and we record provisions only for losses that we consider probable. These disclosures for 2014 are included in “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” and Note 26 of our consolidated financial statements. We are not required to disclose or record provisions for proceedings in which our management judges the risk of loss to be remote. However, the amounts involved in certain of the proceedings in which we believe our risk of loss is remote are substantial, and the losses to us could be significantly high. Even for the amounts recorded as provisions for probable losses, a judgment against us would have an effect on our cash flow if we were required to pay those amounts. Unfavorable decisions in our legal proceedings may, therefore, reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. With regard to tax contingencies, we are currently defendants in tax cases that involve tax credit offsets. These cases have not yet reached a final ruling by the Brazilian courts. We may face risks arising from tax liabilities and the monetization of tax credits, which can negatively impact our results.The Supreme Court of Brazil has recently ruled that the use of total ICMS tax credits in operations related to food products classified as staple foods in Brazil (cesta básica) is improper. The case is currently on appeal and, if the decision is upheld and determined to apply to some or all of BRF’s operations, it could have a significant impact on our operations, liquidity and financial results. See “Item 8. Financial Information—A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings—Tax Proceedings.” As of December 31, 2014, we had R$57.4 million in provisions for civil contingencies, R$252.4 million in provisions for tax contingencies and R$330.4 million in provisions for labor contingencies. See Note 25 to our consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure you that we will obtain favorable decisions in these proceedings or that our reserves will be sufficient to cover potential liabilities resulting from unfavorable decisions. We depend on members of our senior management and on our ability to recruit and retain qualified professionals to implement our strategy. We depend on members of our senior management and other qualified professionals to implement our business strategies. Efforts to recruit and retain professionals may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect our results. In addition, the loss of key professionals may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy, as well as the expenses associated to these losses can impact our results. 17 Table of Contents We rely on our positive image and reputation in the marketplace. BRF has a strong image related to solid corporate governance and is associated with values such as trust, ethics and transparency. We have a framework of antifraud initiatives that supports all business segments and their commercial standards worldwide. However, we may not be able to mitigate all fraud risk entirely. In cases of bad publicity or acts that may negatively affect our image, we have a Crisis Committee that works with our stakeholders. Any negative reflection on our image or the strength of our brand from these or other activities could have a negative impact on our results of operations, as well as our ability to achieve our growth strategy. We are required to comply with the laws and regulations of Brazil and various jurisdictions where we conduct operations. In particular, we are subject to the Brazilian anti-corruption rules and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (“FCPA”), as well as economic sanction programs, including those administered by the United Nations, the European Union and the United States, including the U.S. Treasury Department’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (“OFAC”). The FCPA prohibits providing anything of value to foreign officials for the purposes of obtaining or retaining business or securing any improper business advantage. As part of our business, we may deal with entities, the employees of which are considered foreign officials for purposes of the FCPA. In addition, economic sanctions programs restrict our dealings with certain sanctioned countries, individuals and entities. Although we have internal policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations, there can be no assurance that such policies and procedures will be sufficient or that our employees, directors, officers, partners, agents and service providers will not take actions in violation of our policies and procedures (or otherwise in violation of the relevant anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations) for which we or they may be ultimately held responsible. Violations of anti-corruption laws and sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. Damages not covered by our insurance policies might result in losses for us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As is typical in our business, our plants, distribution centers, vehicles and our directors and officers, among others, are insured. However, certain kinds of losses cannot be insured against, and our insurance policies are subject to liability limits and exclusions. If an event that cannot be insured occurs, or the damages are higher than our policy limits, we may incur significant costs. In addition, we could be required to pay indemnification to parties affected by such an event. In addition, even where we incur losses that are ultimately covered by insurance, we may incur additional expenses to mitigate the loss, such as shifting production to another facility. These costs may not be fully covered by our insurance. For example, in 2011, fires affected a part of the installations of our Nova Mutum, Mato Grosso unit and part of the installations of our Brasília unit. In 2014, fires affected part of the installations of our Toledo unit. Although the facilities are covered by fire insurance and the units’ production was temporarily absorbed by other BRF plants, we cannot assure you that all of our direct and indirect costs will be covered by our insurance. Any similar event at other facilities in the future could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and our business. Our failure to continually innovate and successfully launch new products, as well as maintain our brand image, could adversely impact our operating results. Our financial success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and dietary habits and successfully developing and launching new products and product extensions that consumers want. We devote resources to new product development and product extensions, however we may not be successful in developing innovative new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. To the extent that we are not able to effectively gauge the direction of our key markets and successfully identify, develop, manufacture and market new or improved products in these changing markets, our financial results and our competitive position may suffer. We also seek to maintain and extend the image of our brands through marketing, including advertising, consumer promotions and trade spending. Due to inherent risks in the marketplace associated with advertising, promotions and new product introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance, our marketing investments may not prove successful in maintaining or increasing our market share. Continuing global focus on health and wellness, including weight management, and increasing media attention to the role of food marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and greater scrutiny of food marketing practices. Our success in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image also depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment, including increasing reliance on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. The growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our reputation and brand image. If we do not maintain or extend our brand image, then our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents Failures or security breaches of our information technology systems could disrupt our operations and negatively impact our business. Information technology is an important part of our business operations and we increasingly rely on information technology systems to manage business data and increase efficiencies in our production and distribution facilities and inventory management processes. We also use information technology to process financial information and results of operations for internal reporting purposes and to comply with regulatory, legal and tax requirements. In addition, we depend on information technology for digital marketing and electronic communications between our facilities, personnel, customers and suppliers. Like other companies, our information technology systems may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, including during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components thereof, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, telecommunications failures, computer viruses, cyber-attacks, hackers, unauthorized access attempts and other security issues. We have implemented technology security initiatives and disaster recovery plans to mitigate our exposure to these risks, but these measures may not be adequate. Any significant failure of our systems, including failures that prevent our systems from functioning as intended, could cause transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, loss of customers and sales, have negative consequences on our employees and our business partners and have a negative impact on our operations or business reputation. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches, we may suffer financial and reputational damage or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers or suppliers. In addition, the disclosure of non-public sensitive information through external media channels could lead to the loss of intellectual property or damage our reputation and brand image. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness, and our leverage could negatively affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness and grow our business. At December 31, 2014, our total consolidated debt (comprised of short-term and long-term debt) was R$11,589.3 million (US$4,363.1 million). Our substantial indebtedness could have major consequences for us, including: · requiring that a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available for our operations or other capital needs; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt might not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flows, we would be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flows to paying principal and interest on debt; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · increasing our expenditures due to depreciations in the Brazilian real, which can lead to an increased amount of capital needed to service indebtedness that are denominated in U.S. dollars; · making it difficult for us to refinance our indebtedness or to refinance such indebtedness on terms favorable to us, including with respect to existing accounts receivable securitizations; 19 Table of Contents · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are relatively less leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and · exposing our current and future borrowings made at floating interest rates to increases in interest rates. We have substantial debt that matures in each of the next several years. As of December 31, 2014, we had R$2,738.9 million of debt that matures in 2015, R$347.5 million of debt that matures in 2016, R$946.9 million of debt that matures in 2017, R$1,345.9 million of debt that matures in 2018 and R$6,210.1 million of debt that matures in 2019 and thereafter. A substantial portion of our outstanding debt is denominated in foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2014, we had R$7,596.2 million of foreign currency debt, including R$197.6 million of short-term foreign currency debt. Our U.S. dollar-denominated debt must be serviced by funds generated from sales by our subsidiaries, the majority of which are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Consequently, when we do not generate sufficient U.S. dollar revenues to cover that debt service, we must use revenues generated in reais or other currencies to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Depreciation in the value of the real or any of the other currencies of the countries in which we operate, compared to the U.S. dollar, could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Foreign currency hedge agreements may not be effective in covering these currency-related risks. Any future uncertainty in the stock and credit markets could also negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing, which could negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. If, in future years: · the pressures on credit return as a result of disruptions in the global stock and credit markets, · our operating results worsen significantly, · we are unable to complete any necessary divestitures of non-core assets and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or · we are unable to refinance any of our debt that becomes due, we could face liquidity problems and may not be able to pay our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business and financial condition. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant restrictions on us. The instruments governing our consolidated indebtedness impose significant restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit, directly or indirectly, our ability, among other things, to undertake the following actions: · borrow money; · make investments; · sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; · guarantee indebtedness; · enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other distributions from certain subsidiaries; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create or assume liens; and 20 Table of Contents · engage in mergers or consolidations. Although the covenants to which we are subject have exceptions and qualifications, the breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the terms of other existing debt obligations. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt instruments and the debt issued under other debt instruments containing cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, might become or be declared immediately due and payable. If such indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may have insufficient funds to repay in full any such indebtedness. In addition, in connection with the entry into new financings or amendments to existing financing arrangements, our subsidiaries’ financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as a result of the imposition of covenants that are more restrictive, the requirements for additional security, and other terms. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has historically been characterized by interventions by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects as well as the market prices of our common shares or the American Depositary Receipts (“ADRs”) may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: · exchange rate movements; · exchange control policies; · expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in GDP; · inflation; · tax policies; · other economic, political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil, including with respect to alleged unethical or illegal conduct of certain figures in the Brazilian government and legislators, which are currently under investigation; · interest rates; · changes in climate and weather patterns; · energy or water shortages or rationalization, particularly in light of water shortages in parts of Brazil beginning in late 2014; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · changes in environmental regulation; and 21 Table of Contents · social and political instability, particularly in light of recent protests against public policy (including strikes of truck drivers) and related vandalism in major Brazilian cities. These factors, as well as uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulations relating to these factors, may adversely affect us and our business and financial performance and the market price of our common shares or the ADRs. Dilma Rouseff, the re-elected President of Brazil, has considerable power to determine governmental policies and actions that relate to the Brazilian economy and, consequently, affect the operations and financial performance of businesses, such as our company. The administration may face domestic pressure to retreat from the current macroeconomic policies in an attempt to achieve higher rates of economic growth. We cannot predict what policies will be adopted by the Brazilian government and whether these policies will negatively affect the economy or our business or financial performance. In addition, the recent economic and political instability, caused by the rise of inflation, slow GDP growth, protests and strikes, as well as the Petrobras corruption scandal, has led to a fall in confidence and a government crisis. The general political uncertainty could worsen purchasing power, consumption and supply chain costs. Thus, our financial results may be affected by a slowdown in the domestic market. The market expectations for 2015 is that Brazilian economy should slow down and the GDP should not grow or could even have a small decrease. Climate change may negatively affect our business and results of operations. A consensus has developed in the scientific community that global warming will continue to occur even if greenhouse gas emissions were to be slowed, thereby reinforcing the need to intensify actions to adapt to climate changes. We consider the potential effects of climate change when evaluating and managing our operations and supply chain, recognizing the vulnerability of natural resources and agricultural inputs that are essential for our activities. The main risks we have identified relate to the alterations in temperature (average and extreme) and changes in rainfall (average and extreme, such as drought, flooding and storms), both of which could affect agricultural productivity, the quality and availability of pasture areas, animal wellbeing and the availability of energy. These changes could have a direct impact on our costs, raising the price of agricultural commodities as a result of long periods of drought or excessive rainfall, increasing operating costs to ensure animal wellbeing, increasing the risk of rationing and raising the price of electrical energy through water shortages and the need for other energy sources to supply the demand for electricity. We also consider potential regulatory changes and monitor trends in changes to licensing legislation for greenhouse gas emissions at the domestic and international levels. Among the initiatives we have taken to reduce our exposure to climate change and to maintain our competitiveness in terms of costs is the monitoring of stocks in grains purchases and the constant monitoring of the weather in agricultural regions to guide buying decisions, as well as anticipating price movements in the commodity markets. We also undertake efficiency projects to develop more efficient processes that consume less energy. Other initiatives include technological innovations in the animal-raising installations to improve the environment and acclimatization and safeguard the animal´s wellbeing. We may fail to continue to implement programs to mitigate effects of climate change, which may affect our business and results of operations in the future. Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations, financial condition and the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs. Brazil experienced high rates of inflation in the past. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado), or “IGP-M,” a general price inflation index, the inflation rates in Brazil were 11.3% in 2010, 5.1% in 2011, 7.8% in 2012, 5.5% in 2013 and 3.7% in 2014. In addition, according to the National Amplified Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Amplo, or “IPCA”), published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística, or the “IBGE”), Brazilian consumer price inflation rates were 5.9% in 2010, 6.5% in 2011, 5.8% in 2012, 5.9% in 2013 and 6.4% in 2014. In 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, the actual inflation rate was higher than the Central Bank’s target of 4.5% with a tolerance range of two percentage points above or below. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating Results—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Brazilian and Global Economic Conditions” and “—Effects of Exchange Rate Variations and Inflation.” 22 Table of Contents Brazil may continue experiencing high levels of inflation in 2015, above the Central Bank’s target. Periods of higher inflation like in 2014 slow the growth rate of the Brazilian economy, which may lead to lower growth in consumption of food products. Inflation also is likely to continue to put pressure on industry costs of production and expenses, which will force companies to search for innovative solutions in order to remain competitive. We may not be able to pass this cost onto our customers and, as a result, it may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing our debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. In addition, inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market prices of our common shares and the ADRs. Exchange rate movements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. In 2010, the real appreciated 4.3% against the U.S. dollar. In 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, the real depreciated 12.6%, 8.9%, 15.8% and 13,4%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. Appreciation of Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a dampening of export-driven growth. Our production costs are denominated in reais, but our international sales are mostly denominated in U.S. dollars. Financial revenues generated by exports are reduced when translated to reais in the periods in which the real appreciates in relation to the U.S. dollar. Any appreciation could reduce the competitiveness of our exports and adversely affect our net sales and our cash flows from exports. On the other hand, a depreciation of Brazilian real against the U.S. dollar may lead to higher exports and revenues, but costs may be higher. Costs are also directly impacted by the exchange rate. Any depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring deflationary government policies. In addition, the prices of soy meal and soybeans, important ingredients of our animal feedstock, are closely linked to the U.S. dollar, and many of the mineral nutrients added to our feedstock must be purchased in U.S. dollars. The price of corn, another important ingredient of our feedstock, is also linked to the U.S. dollar to a lesser degree. In addition to feedstock ingredients, we purchase sausage casings, breeder eggs, packaging and other raw materials, as well as equipment for use in our production facilities, from suppliers located outside Brazil whom we must pay in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. When the real depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the cost in reais of our U.S. dollar-linked raw materials and equipment increases, and these increases could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We had total foreign currency-denominated debt obligations in an aggregate amount of R$7,596.2 million at December 31, 2014, representing approximately 65.5% of our total consolidated indebtedness at that date. Although we manage a portion of our exchange rate risk through foreign currency derivative instruments and future cash flows from exports in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, our foreign currency debt obligations are not completely hedged. A significant devaluation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar or other currencies would increase the amount of reais that we would need in order to meet debt service requirements of our foreign currency-denominated obligations. Fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs. The interest rate is one of the instruments used by the Central Bank to keep inflation under control or to stimulate the economy. In 2014, inflation reached 6.41% according to IBGE. If interest rates fall down, the population has greater access to credit and consume more. This increase in demand can push prices if the industry is not prepared to meet higher consumption. On the other hand, if interest rates go up, the monetary authority inhibits consumption and investment once they get more expensive. Another consequence is the greater return paid by the government securities, impacting directly in the investments which become less attractive. Investment in public debt absorbs money that would fund the productive sector. 23 Table of Contents At the end of former president Luiz Inacio da Silva’s administration, interest rates were lowered to stimulate economic growth. From 2008 to 2010, interest rates decreased from 13.75% to 10.75% and inflation was kept under 5.0%. With the transition to President Dilma Rousseff’s administration in January 2011, the Brazilian government has set a goal of cutting public expenditures and stabilizing the economy. The low interest rates from previous years resulted in high inflation rates of 5.8% in 2012, 5.9% in 2013, and 6.41% in 2014, leading to the Central Bank’s decision to increase interest rates to stabilize the economy. At December 31, 2014, approximately 14.2% of our total liabilities with respect to indebtedness and derivative instruments of R$11,846.7 million was either (1) denominated in (or swapped into) reais and bears interest based on Brazilian floating interest rates, such as the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo), or “TJLP,” the interest rate used in our financing agreements with Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social), or “BNDES,” and the Interbank Deposit Certificate Rate (Certificado de Depósito Interbancário), or “CDI” rate, an interbank certificate of deposit rate that applies to our foreign currency swaps and some of our other real-denominated indebtedness, or (2) U.S. dollar-denominated and bears interest based on the London Interbank Offered Rate, or “LIBOR.” Any increase in the CDI, TJLP or LIBOR rates may have an adverse impact on our financial expenses and our results of operations. Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, negatively affect our profitability. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax regimes that may increase our and our customers’ tax burdens. These changes include modifications in the tax rates and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. In the past, the Brazilian government has presented certain tax reform proposals, which have been mainly designed to simplify the Brazilian tax system, to avoid internal disputes within and between the Brazilian states and municipalities, and to redistribute tax revenues. The tax reform proposals provide for changes in the rules governing the federal Social Integration Program (Programa de Integração Social, or “PIS”) and Social Security Contribution (Contribuição para o Financiamento da Seguridade Social, or “COFINS”) taxes, the state Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Services (Imposto Sobre a Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços, or “ICMS”) and some other taxes, such as increases in payroll taxes. These proposals may not be approved and passed into law. The effects of these proposed tax reform measures and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. However, some of these measures, if enacted, may result in increases in our overall tax burden, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and the ADRs Holders of ADRs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADRs may exercise voting rights with respect to our common shares represented by ADSs and evidenced by ARSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADRs. Holders of ADRs face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADRs holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our common shares are able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADRs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the ADR depositary if we give notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADRs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis. This voting process necessarily takes longer for holders of ADRs than for holders of our common shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADRs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADRs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADRs, to the extent permitted by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. 24 Table of Contents Holders of ADRs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares underlying the ADSs that are evidenced by their ADRs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADRs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADRs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they have little, if any, recourse if the common shares underlying the ADSs that are evidenced by their ADRs are not voted as requested. Non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company, and our shareholders may have less extensive rights. Holders of ADRs are not direct shareholders of our company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of ADRs surrenders its ADRs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are subject to different levels of regulations and supervision than the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares and the ADRs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than for a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. Non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are a corporation (sociedade anônima) organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and executive officers and our independent public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. Most of the assets of our company and of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our common shares may be payable only in reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we may not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may only be satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the common shares or the ADRs. 25 Table of Contents Holders of ADRs and non-Brazilian holders of our common shares may be unable to exercise preemptive rights and tag-along rights with respect to our common shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by their ADRs. Holders of ADRs and non-Brazilian holders of our common shares may be unable to exercise the preemptive rights and tag-along rights relating to our common shares (including common shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by their ADRs) unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act,” is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, a holder may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of his or her preemptive rights or tag-along rights, or if these rights cannot be sold, they will lapse and the holder will receive no value from them. Provisions in our bylaws may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our control or management. Our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of our company or removal of our directors. Subject to limited exceptions, these provisions require any shareholder that acquires shares representing 20% or more of our share capital to, within 30 days from the date of such acquisition, commence a tender offer with respect to all of our share capital for a price per share equivalent to the greatest of: (1) the economic value of our company, which shall be equivalent to the arithmetic average of the mean points of the economic value ranges obtained in two appraisal reports prepared based on the discounted cash flow method, as long as the variation between these mean points shall not exceed 10%, in which case the economic value shall be determined through arbitration; (2) 135% of the issue price of the shares issued in any capital increase through a public offering that takes place within the 24-month period before the date on which the public offering shall become mandatory, duly adjusted in accordance with the IPCA variation up to the date of payment; and (3) 135% of the unit price of our shares within the 30-day period before the public offering. These provisions of our bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Holders of ADRs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADRs. Historically, any capital gain realized on a sale or other disposition of ADRs between non-Brazilian holders outside Brazil was not subject to Brazilian income tax. However, a December 2003 Brazilian law (Law No. 10,833, of December 29, 2003) provides that “the acquirer, individual or legal entity resident or domiciled in Brazil, or the acquirer’s attorney-in-fact, when such acquirer is resident or domiciled abroad, shall be responsible for the retention and payment of the income tax applicable to capital gains earned by the individual or legal entity resident or domiciled abroad who disposes of property located in Brazil.” The Brazilian tax authorities have issued a normative instruction confirming that they intend to assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents whose assets are located in Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our common shares and evidenced by ADRs, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether Brazilian tax authorities will attempt to tax any capital gains arising from the sale or other disposition of the ADRs, even when the transaction is consummated outside Brazil between non-Brazilian residents. Brazilian taxes may apply to a gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of common shares to another non-Brazilian holder. The gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of common shares to another non-Brazilian holder (other than a disposition of shares held pursuant to Resolution No. 2,689, as amended, of the Brazilian National Monetary Council (Conselho Monetário Nacional), or “CMN,” is generally viewed as being subject to taxation in Brazil. Pursuant to Article 26 of Law No. 10,833/03, Brazilian tax authorities may assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents in transactions involving assets that are located in Brazil. In this case, the tax rate applicable on the gain would be 15% (or 25% in the case of a non-Brazilian holder organized under the laws of or a resident of a tax haven). For additional discussion of the tax consequences of a disposition of our common shares, see “Item 10. Additional Information––Taxation.” 26 Table of Contents The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of our common shares and the ADRs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The Novo Mercado of BM&FBovespa (the “BM&FBOVESPA” or the “São Paulo Stock Exchange”) had a total traded volume of R$1.6 trillion, or U.S.$682.0 billion, and an average daily trading volume of R$7.2 billion, or U.S.$3,096.1 million for the year in 2014. The New York Stock Exchange had a market traded volume of U.S.$19.4 trillion (U.S. domestic listed companies) and an average daily trading volume of U.S.$63.0 billion for the year in 2014. The Brazilian securities markets are also characterized by considerable share concentration. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 50.7% of the aggregate market capitalization of the São Paulo Stock Exchange as of December 31, 2014. In addition, the ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 46.3% of all shares traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange in 2014. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of the ADRs to sell common shares underlying ADSs evidenced by ADRs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market prices of these securities. Developments and the perception of risks in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market prices of our common shares and the ADRs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or adverse economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times resulted in significant outflows of funds from, and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in, Brazil. For example, in 2001, after a prolonged recession, followed by political instability, Argentina announced that it would no longer continue to service its public debt. The economic crisis in Argentina negatively affected, for several years, investors’ perceptions of Brazilian securities. Economic or political crises in Latin America or other emerging markets may significantly affect perceptions of the risk inherent in investing in the region, including Brazil. The Brazilian economy also is affected by international economic and market conditions generally, especially economic and market conditions in the United States. Share prices on the São Paulo Stock Exchange, for example, have historically been sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates as well as movements of the major U.S. stock indexes. Developments in other countries and securities markets could adversely affect the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on our financial statements, relevant market and shareholder data, and the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes for 2014, and we do not expect to be a PFIC for 2015 or in the future, although we can provide no assurances in this regard. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders of our common shares or ADRs may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our common shares and ADRs, which is subject to change. See “Item 10. Additional Information––E. Taxation––U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations––Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 27 Table of Contents 