Item 1A. Risk Factors. Patents and Trademarks We own and maintain a number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks that contribute to our competitiveness in the markets we serve because they protect our inventions and product names against infringement by others. Patents exist for 20 years if all fees are paid, and trademarks have an indefinite life based upon continued use. While we view our patents and trademarks to be valuable because of the broad scope of our products and services and brand recognition we enjoy, we do not believe that the loss or expiration of any single patent or trademark would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or the continuation of our business. Nevertheless, we have implemented management processes designed to protect our inventions and trademarks. Seasonality and Backlog Sales of our products and services are slightly seasonal as demand is generally slower in the first and fourth calendar quarters of the year. Because of the nature of our business, we do not believe that our backlog is a meaningful indicator of the level of our present or future business. Working Capital Practices Our products are generally manufactured with a short turnaround time, and the scheduling of manufacturing activities from customer orders generally includes enough lead time to assure delivery of an adequate supply of raw materials. We offer payment terms to our customers that are competitive. We generally allow our customers to return merchandise if pre-agreed quality standards or specifications are not met; however, we employ quality assurance practices that seek to minimize customer returns. Our customer returns are immaterial. Significant Customers No customer accounted for more than 3% of our consolidated revenues in 2010, and neither we nor any of our segments would suffer a material adverse effect if we were to lose any single customer. Research and Development We have substantial technology and development capabilities. Our efforts are largely devoted to developing new product formulations to satisfy defined market needs, providing quality technical services to evaluate alternative raw materials, assuring the continued success of our products for customer applications, providing technology to improve our products, processes and applications, and providing support to our manufacturing plants for cost reduction, productivity and quality improvement programs. We operate research and development centers that support our commercial development activities and manufacturing operations. These facilities are equipped with state-of-the-art analytical, synthesis, polymer characterization and testing equipment, along with pilot plants and polymer compounding operations that simulate specific production processes that allow us to rapidly translate new technologies into new products. Our investment in product research and development was $33.8 million in 2010, $30.2 million in 2009 and $33.8 million in 2008. In 2011, we expect our investment in research and development to increase moderately as we deploy additional resources to focus on material and service innovations. 5 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents Methods of Distribution We sell products primarily through direct sales personnel, distributors, including our PolyOne Distribution segment, and commissioned sales agents. We primarily use truck carriers to transport our products to customers, although some customers pick up product at our operating facilities or warehouses. We also ship some of our manufactured products to customers by rail. Employees As of February 1, 2011, we employed approximately 4,000 people. Less than 2% of our employees are represented by labor unions under collective bargaining agreements. We believe that relations with our employees are good, and we do not anticipate significant operating issues to occur as a result of current negotiations or when we renegotiate collective bargaining agreements as they expire. Environmental, Health and Safety We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations that apply to the production, use and sale of chemicals, emissions into the air, discharges into waterways and other releases of materials into the environment and the generation, handling, storage, transportation, treatment and disposal of waste material. We endeavor to ensure the safe and lawful operation of our facilities in the manufacture and distribution of products, and we believe we are in material compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. We maintain a disciplined environmental and occupational safety and health compliance program and conduct periodic internal and external regulatory audits at our facilities to identify and categorize potential environmental exposures, including compliance matters and any actions that may be required to address them. This effort can result in process or operational modifications, the installation of pollution control devices or cleaning up grounds or facilities. We believe that we are in material compliance with all applicable requirements. We are strongly committed to safety as evidenced by our injury incidence rate of 0.6 per 100 full-time workers per year in 2010, an improvement from 0.9 in 2009. The 2009 average injury incidence rate for our NAICS Code (326 Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing) was 4.8. In our operations, we must comply with product-related governmental law and regulations affecting the plastics industry generally and also with content-specific law, regulations and non-governmental standards. We believe that compliance with current governmental laws and regulations and with non-governmental content-specific standards will not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The risk of additional costs and liabilities, however, is inherent in certain plant operations and certain products produced at these plants, as is the case with other companies in the plastics industry. Therefore, we may incur additional costs or liabilities in the future. Other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and related enforcement policies, including those under the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances and the Consumer Product Safety Improvement Act, the implementation of additional content-specific standards, discovery of unknown conditions, and claims for damages to property, persons or natural resources resulting from plant emissions or products could also result in additional costs or liabilities. A number of foreign countries and domestic communities have enacted, or are considering enacting, laws and regulations concerning the use and disposal of plastic materials. Widespread adoption of these laws and regulations, along with public perception, may have an adverse impact on sales of plastic materials. Although many of our major markets are in durable, longer-life applications that could reduce the impact of these kinds of environmental regulations, more stringent regulation of the use and disposal of plastics may have an adverse effect on our business. We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and by private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party (PRP) in connection with their investigation and remediation of a number of environmental waste disposal sites. While government agencies assert that PRPs are jointly and severally liable at these sites, in our experience, interim and final allocations of liability costs are generally made based on the relative contribution of waste. However, even when allocations of costs based on relative contribution of waste have been made, we cannot assure that our allocation will not increase if other PRPs do not pay their allocated share of these costs. Based on September 2007 court rulings (see Note 12, Commitments and Related-Party Information, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements) in the case of Westlake Vinyls, Inc. v. Goodrich Corporation, et al. and a settlement agreement related to the former Goodrich Corporation (now owned by Westlake Vinyls, Inc.) Calvert City facility, we recorded a charge during 2007 of $15.6 million for past remediation costs payable to Goodrich Corporation. We also adjusted our environmental reserve for future remediation costs, a portion of which already related to the Calvert City site, resulting in an additional charge of $28.8 million in 2007. We incurred environmental expenses of $20.5 million in 2010, $11.7 million in 2009 and $17.1 million in 2008. Our environmental expense in 2010 and 2009 related mostly to ongoing remediation. In 2010, 2009, and 2008 we received $16.7 million, $23.9 million, and $1.5 million, respectively, as reimbursement of previously incurred environmental remediation costs. We also conduct investigations and remediation at certain of our active and inactive facilities and have assumed responsibility for the resulting environmental liabilities from operations at sites we or our predecessors formerly owned or operated. We believe that our potential continuing liability at these sites will not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial position. In addition, we voluntarily initiate corrective and preventive environmental projects at our facilities. Based on current information and estimates prepared by our environmental engineers and consultants, we had reserves as of December 31, 2010 on our accompanying consolidated balance sheet totaling $87.4 million to cover 6 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents probable future environmental expenditures related to previously contaminated sites. This figure represents our best estimate of probable costs for remediation, based upon the information and technology currently available and our view of the most likely remedy. Depending upon the results of future testing, the ultimate remediation alternatives undertaken, changes in regulations, new information, newly discovered conditions and other factors, it is reasonably possible that we could incur additional costs in excess of the amount accrued at December 31, 2010. Such costs, if any, cannot be currently estimated. We may revise our estimate of this liability as new regulations or technologies are developed or additional information is obtained. We expect cash paid for environmental remediation expenditures will be approximately $15 million in 2011. International Operations Our international operations are subject to a variety of risks, including currency fluctuations and devaluations, exchange controls, currency restrictions and changes in local economic conditions. While the impact of these risks is difficult to predict, any one or more of them could adversely affect our future operations. For more information about our international operations, see Note 16, Segment Information, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements, which is incorporated by reference into this Item 1. Where You Can Find Additional Information Our principal executive offices are located at 33587 Walker Road, Avon Lake, Ohio 44012, and our telephone number is (440) 930-1000. We are subject to the information reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, and, in accordance with these requirements, we file annual, quarterly and other reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC relating to our business, financial results and other matters. The reports, proxy statements and other information we file may be inspected and copied at prescribed rates at the SEC’s Public Reference Room and via the SEC’s website (see below for more information). You may inspect a copy of the reports, proxy statements and other information we file with the SEC, without charge, at the SEC’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549, and you may obtain copies of the reports, proxy statements and other information we file with the SEC, from those offices for a fee. You may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Our filings are available to the public at the SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov. Our Internet address is www.polyone.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available, free of charge, on our website (www.polyone.com, select Investors and then SEC Edgar filings) or upon written request, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish them to the SEC. The contents of our website are not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and the reference to our website does not constitute incorporation by reference into this Form 10-K of the information contained at that site. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the more material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by several factors, some of which we cannot predict or control, that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Several factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: • economic downturns in the significant end markets that we serve; • product obsolescence or technological changes that unfavorably alter the value / cost proposition of our products and services; • competition from existing and unforeseen polymer and non-polymer based products; • declines in general economic conditions or reductions in industrial production growth rates, both domestically and globally, which could impact our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to us; • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell our products and services in specific markets; and • inability to obtain raw materials or supply products to customers due to factors such as supplier work stoppages, supply shortages, plant outages or regulatory changes that may limit or prohibit overland transportation of certain hazardous materials and exogenous factors, like severe weather. If any of these events occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. 7 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents Our manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. The hazards and risks our manufacturing operations are subject to include, but are not limited to: • explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; • mechanical failure resulting in protracted or short duration unscheduled downtime; • regulatory changes that affect or limit the transportation of raw materials; • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • interruptions and environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace; and • storage tank leaks or other issues resulting from remedial activities. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. We are subject to present and potential future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we may not be fully insured against all potential hazards that are incident to our business. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations on, and ownership of, real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature of our business exposes us to compliance costs and risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause contamination and other harm to the environment or personal injury if they are released. Environmental compliance requirements on us and our vendors may significantly increase the costs of these activities involving raw materials, energy, finished products and wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs or experience interruptions in our operations for violations of these laws. We also conduct investigations and remediation at some of our active and inactive facilities and have assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities at sites formerly owned or operated by our predecessors or by us. Also, federal and state environmental statutes impose strict, and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the disposal site as well as on the owners and operators of these sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party in connection with certain sites. We may incur substantial costs for some of these sites. It is possible that we will be identified as a potentially responsible party at more sites in the future which could result in our being assessed substantial investigation or cleanup costs. We may also incur additional costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly strict environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and related enforcement policies, restrictions on the use of lead and phthalates under the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances and the Consumer Product Safety Information Act of 2008 and restrictions on greenhouse gases emissions. The European Union has adopted REACH, a legislative act to cover Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The goal of this legislation, which became effective in June 2007, is to minimize risk to human health and to the environment by regulating the use of chemicals. As these regulations evolve, we will endeavor to remain in compliance with REACH. We accrue costs for environmental matters that have been identified when it is probable that these costs will be required and when they can be reasonably estimated. However, we may be subject to additional environmental liabilities or potential liabilities that have not been identified. We expect that we will continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that compliance with these laws and regulations will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are inherently affected by risk. As noted above in Item 1., “Business,” we have extensive operations outside of the United States. Revenue from these operations (principally from Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia) was approximately 34% in 2010 and 37% in each of 2009 and 2008. Long-lived assets of our foreign operations represented 37% in 2010, 36% in 2009 and 35% in 2008 of our total long-lived assets. International operations are subject to risks, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in local government regulations and policies including, but not limited to foreign currency exchange controls or 8 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents monetary policy; repatriation of earnings; expropriation of property; duty or tariff restrictions; investment limitations; and tax policies; • political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; • legislation that regulates the use of chemicals; • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; and • other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or reducing the prices at which we can sell our products, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations that we may be subject to. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We engage in acquisitions and joint ventures, and may encounter unexpected difficulties integrating those businesses. Attainment of our strategic plan objectives may require, in part, strategic acquisitions or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our businesses globally or add product technology that accelerates our specialization strategy, or both. Success will depend on our ability to complete these transactions or arrangements, and integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions as well as develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. Unexpected difficulties in completing and integrating acquisitions with our existing operations and in managing strategic investments could occur. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits initially anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the results of operations of SunBelt. The earnings of SunBelt may be significantly affected by changes in the commodity cycle for hydrocarbon feedstocks and for chlor-alkali products. If the profitability of SunBelt is adversely affected, cash distributions from the partnership may decline or we may be required to make cash contributions to the partnership, either of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw material costs, and other external factors beyond our control, as well as downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home sectors of the economy, can cause fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, and other costs, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing energy costs. In particular, electricity and fuel represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or reductions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances, and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad, such as climate change regulation. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials, we have been unsuccessful in doing so in some circumstances in the past and there can be no reassurance that we can do so in the future. Additionally, our products used in housing, transportation and building and construction markets are impacted by changes in demand in these sectors, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends, legislative actions and consumer confidence. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products, which could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. 9 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents We face competition from other polymer and chemical companies, which could adversely affect our sales, results of operations or cash flows. We actively compete with companies that produce the same or similar products, and in some instances with companies that produce different products that are designed for the same end uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the selling prices of some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may also experience increased competition from companies that offer products based on alternative technologies and processes that may be more competitive or better in price or performance, causing us to lose customers and result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Additionally, some of our customers may already be or may become large enough to justify developing in-house production capabilities. Any significant reduction in customer orders as a result of a shift to in-house production could adversely affect our sales and operating profits. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. We may experience operating problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Current and future disruptions in the global credit and financial markets could limit our access to credit, which could negatively impact our business. Domestic and foreign credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in the past two years, including volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, declining valuations of certain investments and significant changes in the capital and organizational structures of certain financial institutions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the continuing disruption in the credit and financial markets or of any related adverse economic conditions. These market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to grow and maintain our business. Accordingly, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer or pay unattractive interest rates, which could increase our interest expense, decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Overall, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by the disruptions in the global credit and financial markets. The global economic downturn has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The global economic downturn has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower business spending, all of which have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers have been affected by the current economic conditions. Current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or may determine to reduce purchases or inventories or may cease to continue in business. In addition, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand or could affect our gross margins. Also, availability under our receivables sales facility may be adversely impacted by credit quality and performance of our customer accounts receivable. The availability under the receivable sales facility is based on the amount of receivables that meet the eligibility criteria of the receivables sales facility. As sales decline, receivable losses increase or credit quality deteriorates, the amount of eligible receivables declines and, in turn, lowers the availability under the facility. The timing, strength or duration of any recovery in the global economic markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. While our operating results have improved along with the improvement in the economy, there can be no assurance that the economy and our operating results will continue to improve, that the economy will not experience another significant downturn, or that our operating results will not decrease. In such an event, our operating results, financial condition and business could be adversely affected. While we have seen recent signs of recovery, we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2010, we had goodwill of $164.1 million. The future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a material negative change in relationships with significant 10 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents customers, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could result in goodwill impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges in the past, and such charges materially impacted our historical results of operations. Poor investment performance by our pension plan assets may increase our pension liability and expense, which may increase the required funding of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We provide defined benefit pension plans to eligible employees. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted to a present value, or the discount rate. As of December 31, 2010, we assumed an 8.5% rate of return on pension assets. Poor investment performance by our pension plan assets resulting from a decline in the stock market could significantly increase the deficit position of our plans. Should the assets earn an average return less than 8.5% over time, it is likely that future pension expenses and funding requirements would increase. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligation at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a lower discount rate would raise the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we anticipate that we will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $24.8 million to our pension plans in 2011. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expense or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no outstanding or unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 11 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents 