ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The following discussion is not an all-inclusive listing of risks, although we believe these are the more material risks that we face. If any of the following occur, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by several factors, some of which we cannot predict or control, that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Several factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: Ÿ economic downturns in the significant end markets that we serve; Ÿ product obsolescence or technological changes that unfavorably alter the value / cost proposition of our products and services; Ÿ competition from existing and unforeseen polymer and non-polymer based products; Ÿ declines in general economic conditions or reductions in industrial production growth rates, both domestically and globally, which could impact our customers’ ability to pay amounts owed to us; Ÿ changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell our products and services in specific markets; and Ÿ inability to obtain raw materials or supply products to customers due to factors such as supplier work stoppages, supply shortages, plant outages or regulatory changes that may limit or prohibit overland transportation of certain hazardous materials and exogenous factors, like severe weather. If any of these events occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, which could have a material adverse affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. The hazards and risks our manufacturing operations are subject to include, but are not limited to: Ÿ explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; Ÿ mechanical failure resulting in protracted or short duration unscheduled downtime; Ÿ regulatory changes that affect or limit the transportation of raw materials; Ÿ inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; Ÿ interruptions and environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace; and Ÿ storage tank leaks or other issues resulting from remedial activities. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. We are subject to present and potential future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we may not be fully insured against all potential hazards that are incident to our business or otherwise could occur. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations on, and ownership of, real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature of our business exposes us to compliance costs and risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause contamination and other harm to the environment or personal injury if they are released. Environmental compliance requirements on us and our vendors may significantly increase the costs of these activities involving raw materials, energy, finished products and wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs or experience interruptions in our operations for violations of these laws. We also conduct investigations and remediation at some of our active and inactive facilities and have assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities at sites formerly owned or operated by our predecessors or by us. Also, federal and state environmental statutes impose strict, and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the disposal site as well as on the owners and operators of these sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party in connection with certain sites. We may incur substantial costs for some of these sites. It is possible that we will be identified as a potentially responsible party at more sites in the future which could result in our being assessed substantial investigation or cleanup costs. We may also incur additional costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly strict environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and related enforcement policies, restrictions on the use of lead and phthalates under the Restrictions on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances and the Consumer Product Safety Information Act of 2008 and restrictions on greenhouse gases emissions. 7 POLYONE CORPORATION The European Union has adopted REACH, a legislative act to cover Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The goal of this legislation, which became effective in June 2007, is to minimize risk to human health and to the environment by regulating the use of chemicals. As these regulations evolve, we will endeavor to remain in compliance with REACH. We accrue costs for environmental matters that have been identified when it is probable that these costs will be required and when they can be reasonably estimated. However, we may be subject to additional environmental liabilities or potential liabilities that have not been identified. We expect that we will continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that compliance with these laws and regulations will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations are affected by various risks inherent in conducting operations worldwide. As noted above in Item 1, “Business,” we have extensive operations outside of the United States. Revenue from these operations (principally from Canada, Mexico, Europe, South America, and Asia) was approximately 35% in 2011, 34% in 2010, and 37% in 2009 of our total revenues. Long-lived assets of our foreign operations represented 40% in 2011, 37% in 2010 and 36% in 2009 of our total long-lived assets. International operations are subject to risks, which include, but are not limited to, the following: Ÿ changes in local government regulations and policies including, but not limited to foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy; repatriation of earnings; expropriation of property; duty or tariff restrictions; investment limitations; and tax policies; Ÿ political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; Ÿ legislation that regulates the use of chemicals; Ÿ disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); Ÿ difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; Ÿ limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; Ÿ reduced protection of intellectual property rights; and Ÿ other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances; strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations, we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or reducing the prices at which we can sell our products, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations that we may be subject to. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We engage in acquisitions and joint ventures, and may encounter unexpected difficulties integrating those businesses, including ColorMatrix. Attainment of our strategic plan objectives may require, in part, strategic acquisitions or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our businesses globally or add product technology that accelerates our specialization strategy, or both. Success will depend on our ability to complete these transactions or arrangements, and integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions as well as develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. Unexpected difficulties in integrating ColorMatrix or future acquisitions with our existing operations and in managing strategic investments could occur. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits initially anticipated which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw material costs, and other external factors that are also beyond our control, as well as downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home sectors of the economy, can cause fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, and other costs, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing energy costs. In particular, electricity and fuel represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or reductions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances, and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad, such as climate change regulation. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials there can be no reassurance that we can do so in the future. 8 POLYONE CORPORATION Additionally, our products used in housing, transportation and building and construction markets are impacted by changes in demand in these sectors, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends, legislative actions and consumer confidence. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products, which could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. We face competition from other polymer and chemical companies, which could adversely affect our sales, results of operations or cash flows. We actively compete with companies that produce the same or similar products, and in some instances with companies that produce different products that are designed for the same end uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the selling prices of some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may also experience increased competition from companies that offer products based on alternative technologies and processes that may be more competitive or better in price or performance, causing us to lose customers and result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Additionally, some of our customers may already be or may become large enough to justify developing in-house production capabilities. Any significant reduction in customer orders as a result of a shift to in-house production could adversely affect our sales and operating profits. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. We may experience operating problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Current and future disruptions in the global credit and financial markets could limit our access to credit, which could negatively impact our business. Domestic and foreign credit and financial markets have experienced extreme disruption in the past three years, including volatility in security prices, diminished liquidity and credit availability, declining valuations of certain investments and significant changes in the capital and organizational structures of certain financial institutions. We are unable to predict the likely duration and severity of the continuing disruption in the credit and financial markets or of any related adverse economic conditions. These market conditions may limit our ability to access the capital necessary to grow and maintain our business. Accordingly, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer or pay unattractive interest rates, which could increase our interest expense, decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. Overall, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by the disruptions in the global credit and financial markets. The global economic downturn has had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business and operations. The global economic downturn has caused, among other things, a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and lower business spending, all of which have had and may continue to have a negative effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. Many of our customers, distributors and suppliers have been affected by the current economic conditions. Current or potential customers may be unable to fund purchases or may determine to reduce purchases or inventories or may cease to continue in business. In addition, suppliers may not be able to supply us with needed raw materials on a timely basis, may increase prices or go out of business, which could result in our inability to meet customer demand or could affect our gross margins. The timing, strength or duration of any recovery in the global economic markets remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that market conditions will improve in the near future or that our results will not continue to be materially and adversely affected. Such conditions make it very difficult to forecast operating results, make business decisions and identify and address material business risks. While our operating results have improved along with the improvement in the economy, there can be no assurance that the economy and our operating results will continue to improve, that the economy will not experience another significant downturn, or that our operating results will not decrease. In such an event, our operating results, financial condition and business could be adversely affected. While we have seen recent signs of recovery, we cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown or subsequent recovery. The agreements governing our debt, including our revolving credit facility, contain various covenants that limit our ability to take certain actions and also require us to meet financial maintenance tests, failure to comply with which could have a material adverse effect on us. The agreements governing our senior secured term loan and senior secured revolving credit facility contain a number of significant covenants that, among other things, limit our ability to: consummate asset sales, incur additional debt or liens, consolidate or merge with any person or transfer or sell all or substantially all of our assets, pay dividends or make certain other restricted payments, make investments, enter into transactions with affiliates, create dividend or other payment restrictions with respect to subsidiaries, make capital investments and alter the business we conduct. In addition, these agreements require us to comply with specific financial ratios and tests, under which we are required to achieve specific financial and operating results. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by events beyond our control. A breach of any of these covenants would result in a default under the agreements. In the event of any default, our lenders could elect to declare all amounts borrowed under the agreements, together with accrued interest thereon, to be due and payable. In such an event, we cannot assure you that we would have sufficient assets to pay debt then outstanding under the agreements governing our debt. Any future refinancing of the term loan or revolving credit facility is likely to contain similar restrictive covenants. 9 POLYONE CORPORATION To service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. Our ability to pay interest on our debt and to satisfy our other debt obligations will depend in part upon our future financial and operating performance and that of our subsidiaries and upon our ability to renew or refinance borrowings. Prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, will affect our ability to make these payments. While we believe that cash flow from our current level of operations, available cash and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility will provide adequate sources of liquidity for at least the next twelve months, a significant drop in operating cash flow resulting from economic conditions, competition or other uncertainties beyond our control could create the need for alternative sources of liquidity. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to meet our debt service obligations, we will have to pursue one or more alternatives, such as, reducing or delaying capital or other expenditures, refinancing debt, selling assets, or raising equity capital. We cannot assure you, however, that our business will generate sufficient cash flow from operations or that future borrowings will be available to us under the revolving credit facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. We may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including our term loan and revolving credit facility, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011, we had goodwill of $396.7 million. The future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a material negative change in relationships with significant customers, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, could result in goodwill impairment charges, which could adversely impact our results of operations. We have recorded goodwill impairment charges in the past, and such charges materially impacted our historical results of operations. For additional information, see Note 4, Goodwill and Intangible Assets, to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Poor investment performance by our pension plan assets may increase our pension liability and expense, which may increase the required funding of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We provide defined benefit pension plans to eligible employees. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted to a present value, or the discount rate. As of December 31, 2011, we assumed an 8.5% rate of return on pension assets. Poor investment performance by our pension plan assets resulting from a decline in the stock market could significantly increase the deficit position of our plans. Should the assets earn an average return less than 8.5% over time, it is likely that future pension expenses and funding requirements would increase. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligation at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a lower discount rate would raise the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we anticipate that we will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $24 million to our pension plans in 2012. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expense or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. 10 POLYONE CORPORATION ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no outstanding or unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 