D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Business and Industry Our results of operations are subject to cyclicality and volatility affecting both our raw material prices and our selling prices. Our business is largely dependent on the cost and supply of corn, soy meal, soybeans, hogs, cattle, milk and other raw materials, as well as the selling prices of our poultry, pork, beef and dairy products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand, which may fluctuate significantly, and other factors over which we have little or no control. 11 These other factors include, among others, fluctuations in local and global poultry, hog, cattle and milk production levels, environmental and conservation regulations, economic conditions, weather, animal and crop diseases, cost of international freight and exchange rate fluctuations. Our industry, both in Brazil and abroad, is also characterized by cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. We are not able to mitigate these risks by entering into long-term contracts with our customers and most of our suppliers because such contracts are not customary in our industry. Our financial performance is also affected by domestic and international freight costs, which are vulnerable to volatility in the price of oil. We may not be successful in addressing the effects of cyclicality and volatility on costs and expenses or the pricing of our products, and our overall financial performance may be adversely affected. The decreases in demand and selling prices in 2009, which were exacerbated by the global economic crisis, illustrate the susceptibility of our business to cyclical market forces. In 2009, the average corn price on the Chicago Board of Trade, or “CBOT,” was 29.1% lower than the average price in 2008 after increasing 41.1% in 2008 compared to 2007. Soybean prices decreased by 16.3% in 2009 after increasing 42.8% in 2008 compared to 2007. Similarly, we significantly increased our selling prices of certain of our products in 2008 to reflect increased production costs but were then forced to decrease prices for many products in the fourth quarter of 2008 and throughout 2009. Besides that, the exchange rate volatility and export performance adversely affected our financial performance in those periods. The volatility of prices of our important raw materials has continued in 2010 and 2011. In 2011, the average corn price on the CBOT was 58.8% higher than the average corn price in 2010. However, the price of corn on the CBOT in December 2011 was 16.7% lower than the price of corn in June 2011, largely as a result of supply and demand volatility in the market. CBOT soybean prices decreased by 15.9% in December 2011 compared to June 2011. In 2011, we found it necessary to increase our selling prices of international products in order to mitigate the impact of the increase in the costs of our raw materials. Health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by contamination or food spoilage, evolving nutritional and health-related concerns, consumer product liability claims, product tampering, the possible unavailability and expense of liability insurance and the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Among such risks are those related to raising animals, including disease and adverse weather conditions. Meat is subject to contamination during processing and distribution. Contamination during processing could affect a large number of our products and therefore could have a significant impact on our operations. Our sales are dependent on consumer preferences, and any actual or perceived health risks associated with our products, including any adverse publicity concerning these risks, could cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products, reducing the level of consumption of those products. Even if our own products are not affected by contamination, our industry may face adverse publicity if the products of other producers become contaminated, which could result in reduced consumer demand for our products in the affected category. We maintain systems designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the production process (including the production of poultry, hogs, cattle and dairy products). Our systems for compliance with governmental regulations may not be fully effective in mitigating risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Deterioration of general economic conditions could negatively impact our business. Our business may be adversely affected by changes in Brazilian and global economic conditions. In 2008 and 2009, our business was materially affected by the global economic crisis, which resulted in increased volatility in our markets and contributed to the net losses recorded in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in the first half of 2009. For instance, the global economic crisis led to an increase in raw material prices, such as corn and soybeans, which we could not pass on to our customers. In addition, there was a sharp decrease in demand in 2009, which forced us to cut 20% of our meat production for export in the first quarter of 2009. Although Brazilian and global economic conditions generally improved in 2010, in 2011, the European sovereign debt crisis led to a significant slowdown in economic activity in Europe, increasing unemployment rates and decreasing meat consumption. The upheaval in several countries in the Middle East and events in areas of Latin America also affected meat consumption in those regions. Because of the global nature of our business, we remain subject to the risk of economic volatility worldwide, and economic and political disruptions around the world can have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 12 Raising animals and meat processing involve animal health and disease control risks, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve raising poultry and hogs and processing meat from poultry, hogs and cattle, as well as the purchase of milk and the sale of milk and dairy products, which require us to maintain animal health and control disease. We could be required to destroy animals or suspend the sale of some of our products to customers in Brazil and abroad in the event of an outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as the following: (1) in the case of poultry, avian influenza (discussed below) and Newcastle disease; (2) in the case of hogs, cattle and certain other animals, foot-and-mouth disease, classic swine fever “blue ear” disease and A(H1N1) influenza (discussed below); and (3) in the case of cattle, foot-and-mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, known as “mad cow disease.” Destruction of poultry, hogs or other animals would preclude recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing these animals and result in additional expense for the disposal of such animals. In 2005, foot-and-mouth disease cases in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Paraná affected only cattle, although hogs can also be contaminated. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease could have an effect on livestock we own, the availability of livestock for purchase, consumer perception of certain protein products or our ability to access certain markets, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, although Brazilian cattle is generally grass-fed and at less risk of contracting mad cow disease than cattle raised in some other countries, increases in Brazilian cattle production could lead to the use of cattle feed containing animal byproducts that could heighten the risk of an outbreak of mad cow disease. Outbreaks, or fears of outbreaks, of any of these or other animal diseases may lead to cancellation of orders by our customers and, particularly if the disease has the potential to affect humans, create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for our products. Moreover, outbreaks of animal disease in Brazil may result in foreign governmental action to close export markets to some or all of our products, relating to some or all of our regions. For example, due to foot-and-mouth disease cases affecting cattle in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Paraná, certain major export markets, including Russia (which has been the largest importer of Brazilian pork) banned imports of pork from the entire country in November 2005. Russia partially lifted this ban in the second quarter of 2006 for pork products from the State of Rio Grande do Sul, and this ban was completely lifted in December 2008. In 2011, Russia prohibited imports from several Brazilian states, citing health and sanitary reasons, and this ban remains in place. Any future outbreaks of animal diseases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our pork business in our Brazilian and export markets could be negatively affected by concerns about A(H1N1) influenza, also called “swine flu.” In 2009, A(H1N1) influenza, also called “swine flu,” spread to many countries. On June 11, 2009, the World Health Organization, or “WHO,” declared a flu alert level six, signaling a “global pandemic.” Many countries, including Russia and China, prohibited imports of pork from countries reporting a significant number of cases (Mexico, United States and Canada). On August 10, 2010, the WHO terminated the level six influenza pandemic alert and shifted its focus to a post-pandemic period. During this period, localized outbreaks of different magnitudes may show significant levels of A(H1N1) transmission. In China, for instance, at least 20 people died of A(H1N1) influenza in 2011. Any further outbreak of A(H1N1) influenza could lead to the imposition of costly preventive controls on pork imports in our export markets and could have a negative impact on the consumption of pork in those markets or in Brazil. In addition, any future significant outbreak of A(H1N1) influenza in Brazil could lead to pressure to destroy our hogs, even though no link between the influenza cases and pork consumption has been shown. Any such destruction of our hogs would result in decreased sales of pork, prevent recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing our hogs, and result in additional expense for the disposal of destroyed hogs. Accordingly, any spread of A(H1N1) influenza, or increasing concerns about this disease, may have a material and adverse effect on our company. 13 Our poultry business in Brazilian and export markets could be negatively affected by avian influenza. Chicken and other birds in some countries, particularly in Asia but also in Europe and Africa, have become infected by highly pathogenic avian influenza (the H5N1 virus). In a small number of cases, the avian influenza has been transmitted from birds to humans, resulting in illness and, on occasion, death. Accordingly, health authorities in many countries have taken steps to prevent outbreaks of this viral disease, including destruction of afflicted poultry flocks. Since 2003, there have been over 526 confirmed human cases of avian influenza and over 311 deaths, according to the WHO. Various countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa reported human cases in the past five years and as recently as 2011, and several countries in Europe reported cases of avian influenza in birds. For example, Indonesia became the focus of international attention when the largest cluster of human H5N1 virus cases so far was identified. The H5N1 virus is considered firmly entrenched in poultry throughout much of Indonesia, and this widespread presence has resulted in a significant number of human cases. In addition, in late 2011, China suspended supplies of live poultry to Hong Kong after a dead chicken there tested positive for avian influenza. In 2011, 62 cases were reported worldwide, with 34 deaths, according to the WHO. To date, Brazil has not had a documented case of avian influenza, although there are concerns that an outbreak of avian influenza may occur in the country in the future. Any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil could lead to required destruction of our poultry flocks, which would result in decreased sales of poultry by us, prevent recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing such poultry, and result in additional expense for the disposal of destroyed poultry. In addition, any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil would likely lead to immediate restrictions on the export of some of our products to key export markets. Preventive actions adopted by Brazilian authorities, if any, may not be effective in precluding the spread of avian influenza within Brazil. Whether or not an outbreak of avian influenza occurs in Brazil, further outbreaks of avian influenza anywhere in the world could have a negative impact on the consumption of poultry in our key export markets or in Brazil, and a significant outbreak would negatively affect our net sales and overall financial performance. Any outbreak could lead to the imposition of costly preventive controls on poultry imports in our export markets. Accordingly, any spread of avian influenza, or increasing concerns about this disease, may have a material and adverse effect on our company. More stringent trade barriers in key export markets may negatively affect our results of operations. Because of the growing market share of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef products in the international markets, Brazilian exporters are increasingly being affected by measures taken by importing countries to protect local producers. The competitiveness of Brazilian companies has led certain countries to establish trade barriers to limit the access of Brazilian companies to their markets. Some countries, such as Russia, have a history of erecting trade barriers to imports of food products. In 2006, Russia began to impose quotas on Brazilian pork, beef and poultry products. Over the last two years, the Russian government has changed the allocation criteria for these quotas (particularly for pork and poultry products), which has negatively affected Brazil’s total export volume. Russia is also developing its local production capabilities and increasing quantitative restrictions. In 2011, Russia prohibited imports from several Brazilian states for health and sanitary reasons, which also decreased Brazil’s total export volume. We have been affected by trade barriers imposed by a number of other countries from time to time. In 2009, for example, Ukraine initiated an anti-dumping investigation. Although the investigation was eventually halted and Brazil is once again permitted to export poultry and pork to that country, we cannot predict whether Ukraine may take similar measures in the future. In June 2011, South Africa initiated an anti-dumping investigation against Brazilian chicken, specifically whole chicken and boneless cuts. In a preliminary determination, the South African government imposed substantial tariffs on these products (62.9% on whole chicken and 46.5% on boneless cuts), which temporarily halted Brazilian imports. A final decision by the South African government is expected by the end of this year. The Brazilian government concurrently considering initiating a WTO panel to investigate alleged violations of anti-dumping agreements. In addition, at the end of 2011, Iraq introduced some barriers to Brazilian chicken exports, and in the beginning of 2012, Argentina imposed additional restrictions on Brazilian pork. 14 In Europe, another of our important markets, the European Union has, for some time, charged protective tariffs to mitigate the effects of Brazil’s lower production costs on local European producers. In addition, the European Union has a ban on certain types of Brazilian beef that impacts sales of fresh premium cuts and some frozen hindquarter cuts, and imports of Brazilian pork are currently banned. Developed countries also use direct and indirect subsidies to enhance the competitiveness of their producers in other markets. For example, French producers receive subsidies for their sales of poultry to countries such as Saudi Arabia, a major importer of poultry products. Trade barriers are sometimes applied indirectly to other parties that are crucial to the export of our products. In addition, local producers in a specific market may exert political pressure on their governments to prevent foreign producers from exporting to their market, particularly during unfavorable economic conditions. Any of the above restrictions could substantially affect our export volumes and, consequently, our export sales and financial performance. If new trade barriers arise in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business, financial condition and results of operations might be adversely affected. We face significant competition from Brazilian and foreign producers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We face strong competition from other Brazilian producers in our domestic markets and from Brazilian and foreign producers in our export markets. The Brazilian market for whole poultry, poultry cuts and pork cuts is highly fragmented. Small producers can also be important competitors, some of which operate in the informal economy and are able to offer lower prices by meeting lower quality standards. Competition from small producers is a primary reason why we sell most of our frozen (in natura) meat products in the export markets and is a barrier to expanding our sales of those products in the domestic market. With respect to exports, we compete with other large, vertically integrated Brazilian producers that have the ability to produce quality products at low cost, as well as with foreign producers. In addition, the potential growth of the Brazilian domestic market for processed food, poultry, pork and beef and Brazil’s low production costs are attractive to international competitors. Although the main barrier to these companies has been the need to build a comprehensive distribution network and a network of outgrowers, international competitors with significant resources could undertake to build these networks or acquire and expand existing networks. In the Brazilian dairy products markets, our main competitors are Nestlé Brasil Ltda., Danone Ltda., LBR (Lácteos Brasil S.A.) and Vigor. To varying degrees, our competitors may have strengths in specific product lines and regions as well as greater financial resources. In addition, our poultry and pork cuts, in particular, are highly price-competitive and sensitive to product substitution. Even if we remain a low-cost producer, customers may seek to diversify their sources of supply by purchasing a portion of the products they need from producers in other countries, as some of our customers in key export markets have begun to do. We expect that we will continue to face strong competition in all of our markets and anticipate that existing or new competitors may broaden their product lines and extend their geographic scope. Any failure by us to respond to product, pricing and other moves by competitors may negatively affect our financial performance. Increased regulation of food safety could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to regular Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, governmental inspections and extensive regulation in the food safety area, including governmental food processing controls. Changes in government regulations relating to food safety could require us to make additional investments or incur other costs to meet the necessary specifications for our products. Our products are often inspected by foreign food safety officials, and any failure to pass those inspections can result in our being required to return all or part of a shipment to Brazil, destroy all or part of a shipment or incur costs because of delays in delivering products to our customers. Any tightening of food safety regulations could result in increased costs and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 15 Our export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. Export sales account for a significant portion of our net sales, representing approximately 40% of our net sales in both 2010 and 2011. Our major export markets include the European Union, the Middle East (particularly Saudi Arabia) and the Far East (particularly Japan, China and Russia), where we are subject to many of the same risks described below in relation to Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Our future ability to conduct business in export markets could be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as the following: · exchange rate fluctuations; · deterioration in international economic conditions; · political risks, such as the “Arab Spring” events in the Middle East and recent Venezuelan elections and political instability in Iran; · imposition of increased tariffs, anti-dumping duties or other trade barriers; · strikes or other events affecting ports and other transport facilities; · compliance with differing foreign legal and regulatory regimes; and · sabotage affecting our products. The market dynamics of our important export markets can change quickly and unpredictably due to these factors, the imposition of trade barriers of the type described above and other factors, which together can significantly affect our export volumes, selling prices and results of operations. Our export sales are highly dependent on conditions at a small number of ports in southern Brazil. We export our products primarily through ports in southern Brazil (Paraná, Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul). We have been affected from time to time by strikes of port employees or customs agents, sanitary inspection agents and other government agents at the Brazilian ports from which we export our products. For example, in the third quarter of 2007 and in March 2008, Brazilian federal government sanitary inspectors went on strike for approximately one month. More recently in August 2011, a strike at the Itajaí port affected exports for approximately two months. A widespread or protracted strike in the future could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. In the fourth quarter of 2008, flooding and damage at the ports of Itajaí and Navegantes damaged port infrastructure and required us to divert all our exports in the region of Santa Catarina to three other ports: Rio Grande in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, Paranaguá and São Francisco. These events resulted in reduced shipment levels in November 2008 and led to delays in exports that adversely affected our export revenues for the fourth quarter of 2008. Any similar events in the future affecting the infrastructure necessary for the export of our products could adversely affect our revenues and our results of operations. In particular, political and economic risks in Argentina could limit the profitability of our operations and our ability to execute our strategy in that country. We have five production facilities in Argentina, and we view growth of our business in Argentina as an important component of our strategy in South America. In the fourth quarter of 2011, we acquired two Argentine companies, Avex and Flora Dánica, demonstrating our commitment to expanding in Argentina. However, executing our strategy in Argentina is subject to significant political and economic risks. Political and economic conditions have been volatile in that country for more than a decade. An economic crisis in 2001-2002 led to a long period of deep recession, inflation and political and social unrest. After growth in the second half of that decade, Argentina suffered a sudden economic decline in 2009, accompanied again by inflation and political and social unrest. Economic uncertainty, inflation and other factors could lead to lower real salaries, lower consumption and unemployment, which could have an adverse effect on demand for our products. In addition, Argentine government policies may adversely affect our ability to realize a return on our investment in Argentina. For example, the government has imposed restrictions on the conversion of Argentine currency into foreign currencies and on the remittance to foreign investors of proceeds of their investments in Argentina. More recently, the Argentine government announced the effective nationalization of YPF S.A., Argentina’s leading energy company, through the expropriation of the controlling interest in YPF S.A. held by Repsol YPF S.A., a Spanish company. The Argentine government’s action led to a dramatic decline in the prices of Argentine securities and great concern among international investors. Argentine government intervention, investor reactions and economic uncertainty in Argentina could adversely affect the profitability of our operations and our ability to execute our strategy in that country. Environmental laws and regulations require increasing expenditures for compliance. We, like other Brazilian food producers, are subject to extensive Brazilian federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations, authorizations and licenses concerning, among other things, the handling and disposal of waste, discharges of pollutants into the air, water and soil, and clean-up of contamination, all of which affect our business. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any lack of authorizations or licenses could result in administrative and criminal penalties, such as fines, cancellation of authorizations or revocation of licenses, in addition to negative publicity and liability for remediation or for environmental damage. We cannot operate a plant if the required environmental permit is not valid or current. 16 We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Because of the possibility of unanticipated regulatory measures or other developments, particularly as environmental laws become more stringent in Brazil, the amount and timing of future expenditures required to maintain compliance could increase from current levels and could adversely affect the availability of funds for capital expenditures and other purposes. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations, as well as obligations in agreements with public entities, could result in increased costs and expenses. Our plants are subject to environmental licensing, based on their pollution potential and usage of natural resources. If, for example, one of our plants is built or expanded without an environmental license or if our environmental licenses expire, are not renewed or have their solicitation of renewal dismissed by the competent environmental authority, we may incur fines and other administrative penalties, suspension of operations or closing of the facilities in question. Those same penalties may also be applicable in the case of failure to fulfill the conditions of validity foreseen in the environmental licenses already held by us. Currently, some of our environmental licenses are being renewed, and we cannot guarantee that environmental agencies will approve our renewal requests. Acquisitions may divert management resources or prove to be disruptive to our company. We regularly review and pursue opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions and other business ventures. We have completed several acquisitions in recent years, as described under “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Corporate History.” Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, increased compensation expenses for newly hired employees, assumption of unknown liabilities and potential disputes with the sellers. We could also experience financial or other challenges if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future give rise to liabilities or problems of which we are not aware. Acquisitions outside of Brazil may present additional difficulties, such as compliance with foreign legal and regulatory systems and integration of personnel to different managerial practices and would increase our exposure to risks associated with international operations. In recent years, the size of our acquisitions has increased, which has increased the magnitude of the challenges described above. In 2009, we completed our business combination with Sadia, which was approved by the Brazilian Administrative Council for Economic Defense (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica, the Brazilian government agency with antitrust decision making authority, or “CADE”) in 2011. Since the Sadia transaction, we have continued to grow through acquisitions, in line with our strategy to increase the internationalization of the company. In 2011, we acquired two Argentine companies, Avex S.A., a poultry producer, and Flora Dánica S.A., a margarine producer and distributor, for R$188.3 million. In addition, we acquired Heloisa Indústria e Comércio de Produtos Lácteos Ltda. for R$55.0 million, as a part of our strategy to increase our operations in the dairy business. We may not realize the benefits of the acquisitions we undertake, in the timeframe we anticipate or at all, because of integration or other challenges. We may not realize the expected benefits of our business combination with Sadia, whether because of lost revenues from businesses we were required to divest, difficulty in achieving projected synergies or other reasons. In July 2011, we received Brazilian antitrust approval for our business combination with Sadia from the CADE, but that approval was subject to a number of conditions, including, among others: · the suspension of our use of the Perdigão and Batavo brands with respect to several product lines in the Brazilian market for periods ranging from three to five years; · the divestment of our Rezende, Wilson, Texas, Tekitos, Patitas, Escolha Saudável, Light Elegant, Fiesta, Freski, Confiança, Doriana and Delicata trademarks; and · the divestment of 10 processed food plants, two hog slaughtering plants, two poultry slaughtering plants, four animal feed plants, 12 chicken breeder stock farms, two poultry hatcheries and eight distribution centers and a related portfolio of contracts with integrated poultry and hog outgrowers. 17 In March 2012, we entered into an agreement with Marfrig Alimentos S.A. to exchange these assets for assets and cash held by Marfrig. Under the agreement: · We agreed to transfer to Marfrig: · the trademarks, intellectual property, real property, facilities and equipment described in the agreement with the CADE; · the assets and rights relating to eight distribution centers; · through a lease, our hog slaughtering plant in Carambeí in the State of Paraná, with an option by Marfrig to purchase the plant for R$188.0 million at the end of the lease term; · capital stock of certain subsidiaries relating to the assets above; · contracts with integrated producers to ensure that Marfrig will maintain the same levels of supply as BRF and Sadia did; and · Sadia’s 64.57% interest in the capital stock of Excelsior Alimentos S.A. In return, Marfrig agreed to transfer to us its 90.05% interest in Quickfood S.A., an Argentine company; and R$350.0 million in cash, of which R$100.0 million must be paid between June and October 2012 and the remaining R$250.0 million will be paid in 72 monthly installments, plus interest at market rates. The transaction with Marfrig is subject to conditions precedent, including an announcement by the CADE that the agreement fulfills the conditions of the Performance Commitment Agreement (Termo de Compromisso de Desempenho, or “TCD”). For more details on these agreements, see “Item 4. Information on the Company—A. History and Development of the Company—Recent Acquisitions and Investments—Business Combination with Sadia.” Based on our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2010, we estimate that the sale of assets and brands agreed with CADE represent revenues of approximately R$1.7 billion and sales volumes equivalent to approximately 456 thousand tons of in natura, marinated and processed products and other products. We estimate that the suspended Perdigão and Sadia brand categories are equivalent to a further R$1.2 billion in revenues. Although we expect to achieve synergies from the integration of the Brazilian operations of BRF and Sadia, those synergies may not compensate for the lost revenue from the divested brands and assets or the suspended brands or any unanticipated costs. Our synergy projections are based on historical sales volumes, and if our sales volumes in future periods are lower than those we have assumed, our synergies could also be lower than our projections. In addition, we estimate that we will need to invest approximately R$700 million from 2011 to 2013 to achieve our projected synergies. We may not achieve the full amount of our projected synergies for 2012 to 2013, or it may take us longer to achieve these synergies than we currently anticipate. The divestment and suspension of these brands will require us to refocus our marketing and sales efforts on our remaining brands in the Brazilian market and adjust our operations accordingly. The transfers of our brands could lead to confusion among consumers and could affect customer loyalty. In addition, we run the risk that any contamination or other health issue that may arise in the future from a product sold using one of our divested or suspended brands may be associated with our company, even if we did not produce the product. Any such issue could have an adverse effect on our business, revenues and results of operations. In addition, our integration of the Brazilian business of Sadia with our Brazilian business is ongoing, and any failure to effectively integrate those operations may increase our costs, adversely affect our margins or have other negative consequences. The challenges of integration and transition include, among others: · devising a coherent marketing and branding strategy in our domestic market that takes into account the relative strengths of BRF’s and Sadia’s marketing and brands, after giving effect to the transfer of brands to Marfrig; 18 · continuing to integrate two of the largest customer distribution networks in Brazil; · continuing to integrate the extensive production facilities of BRF and Sadia in several Brazilian states; and · the potential loss of key customers of BRF or Sadia, or both. The business combination with Sadia is significantly larger than any other transaction we have undertaken in the past, and the Brazilian antitrust approval raised more complex issues than we have faced in any other acquisition. Any combination of the challenges described above could adversely affect our results of operations and prospects and the market price of our common shares or ADRs. We are influenced by a group of shareholders that control a significant percentage of our common shares. Currently, five pension funds hold a significant percentage of our common shares and, acting together, have the ability to significantly influence our decisions. Those pension funds owned 27.5% of our total capital as of December 31, 2011. They were parties to a shareholders’ voting agreement that expired on October 2011 that set forth voting arrangements with respect to, among other matters, (1) the election of officers and members of our board of directors and of the fiscal council and (2) the matters set forth in Article 136 of the Brazilian Corporation Law, including decisions relating to dividends, corporate restructurings, our corporate purpose and other matters. Although the current shareholders’ agreement has expired, the pension funds continue to be guided by its terms and are currently negotiating a new shareholders’ voting agreement. As a result, these shareholders have, and will continue to have, the power to significantly influence the outcome of important corporate decisions or matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with, or differ from, the interests of other holders of our common shares. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings may reduce our liquidity and negatively affect us. We are defendants in civil, labor and tax proceedings and are also subject to consent agreements (termo de ajustamento de conduta). Under IFRS, we classify the risk of adverse results in these proceedings as “remote,” “possible” or “probable.” We disclose the aggregate amounts of these proceedings that we have judged possible or probable, to the extent the amounts are known or reasonably estimable, and we record provisions only for losses that we consider probable. These disclosures for 2011 are included in “Item 8. Financial Information—Legal Proceedings” and note 25 to our consolidated financial statements. We are not required to disclose or record provisions for proceedings in which our management judges the risk of loss to be remote. However, the amounts involved in certain of the proceedings in which we believe our risk of loss is remote are substantial, and the losses to us could, therefore, be significantly higher than the amounts for which we have recorded provisions. Even for the amounts recorded as provisions for probable losses, a judgment against us would have an effect on our cash flow if we are required to pay those amounts. Unfavorable decisions in our legal proceedings may, therefore, reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will obtain favorable decisions in these proceedings or that our reserves will be sufficient to cover potential liabilities resulting from unfavorable decisions. In the ordinary course of business, we outsource labor to third parties. See “Item 4. Information on the Company—B. Business Overview—Production Process.” If it were to become necessary to revisit this contractual structure, we could incur additional operating expenses. 19 We depend on members of our senior management and on our ability to recruit and retain qualified professionals to implement our strategy. We depend on members of our senior management and other qualified professionals to implement our business strategies. Efforts to recruit and retain professionals may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect us. In addition, the loss of key professionals may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. Damages not covered by our insurance might result in losses for us, which could have an adverse effect on our business. As is typical in our business, our plants, distribution centers, vehicles and our directors and officers, among others, are insured. However, certain kinds of losses cannot be insured against, and our insurance policies are subject to liability limits and exclusions. If an event that cannot be insured occurs, or the damages are higher than our policy limits, we may incur significant cost. In addition, we could be required to pay indemnification to parties affected by such an event. In addition, even where we incur losses that are ultimately covered by insurance, we may incur additional expenses to mediate the loss, such as shifting production to another facility. These costs may not be fully covered by our insurance. For example, in March 2011, a fire affected part of the installations of our Nova Mutum, Mato Grosso unit, and on October 2011, another fire affected part of the installations of our Brasília unit. Although the facilities are covered by fire insurance and the units’ production was temporarily absorbed by other BRF plants, we cannot guarantee that all of our direct and indirect costs will be covered by our insurance. Any similar event at other facilities in the future could adversely affect our revenues, expenses and our business. Risks Relating to Our Indebtedness We have substantial indebtedness, especially since our business combination with Sadia, and our leverage could negatively affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness and grow our business. At December 31, 2011, our total consolidated debt was R$8,053.5 million, including R$2,567.3 million of debt incurred by our subsidiary Sadia. Our substantial indebtedness could have major consequences for us, including: · requiring that a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations be used for the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available for our operations or other capital needs; · limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate because our available cash flow after paying principal and interest on our debt might not be sufficient to make the capital and other expenditures necessary to address these changes; · increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions because, during periods in which we experience lower earnings and cash flows, we would be required to devote a proportionally greater amount of our cash flows to paying principal and interest on debt; · limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future to fund working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and general corporate requirements; · making it difficult for us to refinance our indebtedness or to refinance such indebtedness on terms favorable to us, including with respect to existing accounts receivable securitizations; · placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are relatively less leveraged and that may be better positioned to withstand economic downturns; and 20 · exposing our current and future borrowings made at floating interest rates to increases in interest rates. We have substantial debt that matures in each of the next several years. As of December 31, 2011, we had R$3,452.5 million of debt that matures in 2012, R$776.9 million of debt that matures in 2013, R$578.5 million of debt that matures in 2014, R$142.4 million of debt that matures in 2015 and R$3,103.3 million of debt that matures in 2016 and thereafter. A substantial portion of our outstanding debt is denominated in foreign currencies, primarily U.S. dollars. As of December 31, 2011, we had R$4,723.8 million of foreign currency debt, including R$1,638.3 million of short-term foreign currency debt. Our U.S. dollar-denominated debt must be serviced by funds generated from sales by our subsidiaries, the majority of which are not denominated in U.S. dollars. Consequently, when we do not generate sufficient U.S. dollar revenues to cover that debt service, we must use revenues generated in reais or other currencies to service our U.S. dollar-denominated debt. Depreciation in the value of the real or any of the other currencies of the countries in which we operate, compared to the U.S. dollar, could adversely affect our ability to service our debt. Foreign currency hedge agreements may not be effective in covering these currency-related risks. Any future uncertainty in the stock and credit markets could also negatively impact our ability to access additional short-term and long-term financing, which could negatively impact our liquidity and financial condition. If, in future years: · the pressures on credit return as a result of disruptions in the global stock and credit markets, · our operating results worsen significantly, · we are unable to complete any necessary divestitures of non-core assets and our cash flow or capital resources prove inadequate, or · we are unable to refinance any of our debt that becomes due, we could face liquidity problems and may not be able to pay our outstanding debt when due, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated business and financial condition. The terms of our indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. The instruments governing our consolidated indebtedness impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit, directly or indirectly, our ability, among other things, to undertake the following actions: · borrow money; · make investments; · sell assets, including capital stock of subsidiaries; · guarantee indebtedness; · enter into agreements that restrict dividends or other distributions from certain subsidiaries; · enter into transactions with affiliates; · create or assume liens; and · engage in mergers or consolidations. 21 Although the covenants to which we are subject have exceptions and qualifications, the breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the terms of other existing debt obligations. Upon the occurrence of such an event of default, all amounts outstanding under the applicable debt instruments and the debt issued under other debt instruments containing cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, together with accrued and unpaid interest, if any, might become or be declared immediately due and payable. If such indebtedness were to be accelerated, we may have insufficient funds to repay in full any such indebtedness. In addition, in connection with the entry into new financings or amendments to existing financing arrangements, our subsidiaries’ financial and operational flexibility may be further reduced as a result of more restrictive covenants, requirements for security and other terms. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has historically been characterized by interventions by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects as well as the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: · exchange rate movements; · exchange control policies; · expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in GDP; · inflation; · tax policies; · other economic political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil; · interest rates; · energy shortages; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; · changes in environmental regulation; and · social and political instability. These factors, as well as uncertainty over whether the Brazilian government may implement changes in policy or regulations relating to these factors, may adversely affect us and our business and financial performance and the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs. 22 Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations , financial condition, and the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs. Brazil experienced high rates of inflation in the past. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado) or “IGP-M,” a general price inflation index, the inflation rates in Brazil were 7.7% in 2007, 9.8% in 2008, (1.7)% in 2009, 11.3% in 2010 and 5.1% in 2011. In addition, according to the IPCA, published by the IBGE, the Brazilian consumer price inflation rates were 4.5% in 2007, 5.9% in 2008, 4.3% in 2009, 5.9% in 2010 and 6.5% in 2011. In both 2010 and 2011, the actual inflation rate was significantly higher than the Brazilian Central Bank’s target of 4.5%. Increases in personal expenses (which include services) were the main reason that consumer inflation did not meet the Central Bank’s target in 2011. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—A. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Principal Factors Affecting Our Results of Operations—Brazilian and Global Economic Conditions” and “—Effects of Exchange Rate Variations and Inflation.” The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting availability of credit and reducing economic growth. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil in the past and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in future periods. Periods of higher inflation may slow the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products in Brazil and decreased net sales. Inflation also is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing our debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. Inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can, in addition, lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets and may have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and the market price of our common shares and the ADRs. Exchange rate movements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. In 2006 and 2007 the real appreciated 9.5% and 16.3%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. In 2008, the real depreciated 31.9% against the U.S. dollar. In 2009 and 2010 the real appreciated 25.5% and 4.3%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. In 2011, the real depreciated 12.6% against the U.S. dollar. Any appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a dampening of export-driven growth. Our production costs are denominated in reais, but our export sales are mostly denominated in U.S. dollars or euros. Financial revenues generated by exports are reduced when translated to reais in the periods in which the real appreciates in relation to the U.S. dollar. Any such appreciation could reduce the competitiveness of our exports and adversely affect our net sales and our cash flows from exports. On the other hand, any depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring deflationary government policies. In addition, the prices of soy meal and soybeans, important ingredients of our animal feedstock, are closely linked to the U.S. dollar, and many of the mineral nutrients added to our feedstock must be purchased in U.S. dollars. The price of corn, another important ingredient of our feedstock, is also linked to the U.S. dollar to a lesser degree. In addition to feedstock ingredients, we purchase sausage casings, breeder eggs, packaging and other raw materials, as well as equipment for use in our production facilities, from suppliers located outside Brazil whom we must pay in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. When the real depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the cost in reais of our U.S. dollar-linked raw materials and equipment increases, and these increases could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 23 We had total foreign currency-denominated debt obligations in an aggregate amount of R$4,723.8 million at December 31, 2011, representing approximately 59% of our total consolidated indebtedness at that date. A significant portion of our consolidated debt is denominated in foreign currencies because export credit facilities available in foreign currencies often have attractive financing conditions and costs compared to other financing sources. Foreign-currency denominated credit facilities expose us to a greater degree of foreign exchange risk. We manage a portion of our exchange rate risk through foreign currency swaps and investments, and cash flows from export sales are in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, but our foreign currency debt obligations are not completely hedged. At December 31, 2011, our short-term consolidated exchange rate exposure was R$1,638.3 million of the amount described above. A significant devaluation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar or other currencies could increase the debt service requirements of our foreign currency-denominated obligations. Fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs. The Central Bank establishes the basic interest rate target for the Brazilian financial system by reference to the level of economic growth of the Brazilian economy, the level of inflation and other economic indicators. At the end of former president Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva’s administration, interest rates were lowered to stimulate economic growth. From 2008 to 2010, interest rates decreased from 13.75% to 10.75% and inflation was kept under 5.0%. With the transition to President Dilma Rousseff’s administration in January 2011, the Brazilian government has set a goal of cutting public expenditures and stabilizing the economy. The low interest rates from previous years resulted in high inflation rates of 6.5% in 2011, leading to the Central Bank’s decision to increase interest rates to stabilize the situation. At December 31, 2011, approximately 32% of our total liabilities from indebtedness and derivative instruments of R$8,053.5 billion was either (1) denominated in (or swapped into) reais and bears interest based on Brazilian floating interest rates, such as the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo), or “TJLP,” the interest rate used in our financing agreements with Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social — BNDES), or “BNDES,” and the Interbank Deposit Certificate Rate (Certificado de Depósito Interbancário), or “CDI” rate, an interbank certificate of deposit rate that applies to our foreign currency swaps and some of our other real-denominated indebtedness, or (2) U.S. dollar-denominated and bears interest based on LIBOR. Any increase in the CDI, TJLP or LIBOR rates may have an adverse impact on our financial expenses and our results of operations. Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, negatively affect our profitability. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax regimes that may increase our and our customers’ tax burdens. These changes include modifications in the rate of assessments and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. In the past, the Brazilian government has presented certain tax reform proposals, which have been mainly designed to simplify the Brazilian tax system, to avoid internal disputes within and between the Brazilian states and municipalities, and to redistribute tax revenues. The tax reform proposals provide for changes in the rules governing the federal Social Integration Program (Programa de Integração Social), or “PIS,” the federal Contribution for Social Security Financing (Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade Social — COFINS), or “COFINS,” the state Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Services (Imposto Sobre a Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços), or “ICMS,” and some other taxes. These proposals are not assured to be approved and passed into law. The effects of these proposed tax reform measures and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. However, some of these measures, if enacted, may result in increases in our overall tax burden, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and the ADRs Holders of ADRs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADRs may exercise voting rights with respect to our common shares represented by ADSs and evidenced by ARSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADRs. Holders of ADRs face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADRs holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our common shares are able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADRs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the ADR depositary if we give notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADRs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis. This voting process necessarily takes longer for holders of ADRs than for holders of our common shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADRs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADRs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADRs, to the extent permitted by the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. 24 Holders of ADRs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares underlying the ADSs that are evidenced by their ADRs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADRs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADRs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they have little, if any, recourse if the common shares underlying the ADSs that are evidenced by their ADRs are not voted as requested. Non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company, and our shareholders may have less extensive rights. Holders of ADRs are not direct shareholders of our company and are unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our bylaws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of ADRs surrenders its ADRs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are subject to different levels of regulations and supervision than the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares and the ADRs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than for a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. Non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are a corporation (sociedade anônima) organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and executive officers and our independent public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. Most of the assets of our company and of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for non-Brazilian holders of ADRs and common shares to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. 25 Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our common shares may be payable only in reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we may not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may only be satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the common shares or the ADRs. Holders of ADRs and non-Brazilian holders of our common shares may be unable to exercise preemptive rights and tag-along rights with respect to our common shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by their ADRs. Holders of ADRs and non-Brazilian holders of our common shares may be unable to exercise the preemptive rights and tag-along rights relating to our common shares (including common shares underlying the ADSs evidenced by their ADRs) unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act,” is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, a holder may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of his or her preemptive rights or tag-along, or if these rights cannot be sold, they will lapse and the holder will receive no value from them. Provisions in our bylaws may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our control or management. Our bylaws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of our company or removal of our directors. Subject to limited exceptions, these provisions require any shareholder that acquires shares representing 20% or more of our share capital to, within 30 days from the date of such acquisition, commence a tender offer with respect to all of our share capital for a price per share equivalent to the greatest of: (1) the economic value of our company, which shall be equivalent to the arithmetic average of the mean points of the economic value ranges obtained in two appraisal reports prepared based on the discounted cash flow method, as long as the variation between these mean points shall not exceed 10%, in which case the economic value shall be determined through arbitration; (2) 135% of the issue price of the shares issued in any capital increase through a public offering that takes place within the 24-month period before the date on which the public offering shall become mandatory, duly adjusted in accordance with the IPCA variation up to the date of payment; and (3) 135% of the unit price of our shares within the 30-day period before the public offering. These provisions of our bylaws may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Holders of ADRs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADRs. Historically, any capital gain realized on a sale or other disposition of ADRs between non-Brazilian holders outside Brazil was not subject to Brazilian income tax. However, a December 2003 Brazilian law (Law No. 10,833) provides that “the acquirer, individual or legal entity resident or domiciled in Brazil, or the acquirer’s attorney-in-fact, when such acquirer is resident or domiciled abroad, shall be responsible for the retention and payment of the income tax applicable to capital gains earned by the individual or legal entity resident or domiciled abroad who disposes of property located in Brazil.” The Brazilian tax authorities have issued a normative instruction confirming that they intend to assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents whose assets are located in Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our common shares and evidenced by ADRs, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether Brazilian tax authorities will attempt to tax any capital gains arising from the sale or other disposition of the ADRs, even when the transaction is consummated outside Brazil between non-Brazilian residents. 26 Brazilian taxes may apply to a gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of common shares to another non-Brazilian holder. The gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of common shares to another non-Brazilian holder (other than a disposition of shares held pursuant to Resolution No. 2,689, as amended, of the CMN) is generally viewed as being subject to taxation in Brazil. Pursuant to Law No. 10,833/03, Brazilian tax authorities may assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents in transactions involving assets that are located in Brazil. In this case, the tax rate applicable on the gain would be 15% (or 25% in the case of a non-Brazilian holder organized under the laws of or a resident of a tax haven). For additional discussion of the tax consequences of a disposition of our common shares, see “Item 10. Additional Information––Taxation.” The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of our common shares and the ADRs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The BM&FBOVESPA - Securities, Commodities & Futures Exchange, or the “São Paulo Stock Exchange,” had a total market capitalization of R$2,292 billion, or U.S.$1,219 billion, at December 31, 2011 and an average daily trading volume of R$6.2 billion in 2011. By contrast, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of U.S.$11.8 trillion at December 31, 2011 (U.S. domestic listed companies) and an average daily trading volume of U.S.$71.5 billion in 2011. The Brazilian securities markets are also characterized by considerable share concentration. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 54.0% of the aggregate market capitalization of the São Paulo Stock Exchange at December 31, 2011. In addition, the ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 47.0% of all shares traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange in 2011. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of the ADRs to sell common shares underlying ADSs evidenced by ADRs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market prices of these securities. Developments and the perception of risks in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market prices of our common shares and the ADRs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or adverse economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times resulted in significant outflows of funds from, and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in, Brazil. For example, in 2001, after a prolonged recession, followed by political instability, Argentina announced that it would no longer continue to service its public debt. The economic crisis in Argentina negatively affected, for several years, investors’ perceptions of Brazilian securities. Economic or political crises in Latin America or other emerging markets may significantly affect perceptions of the risk inherent in investing in the region, including Brazil. The Brazilian economy also is affected by international economic and market conditions generally, especially economic and market conditions in the United States. Share prices on the São Paulo Stock Exchange, for example, have historically been sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates as well as movements of the major U.S. stock indexes. Developments in other countries and securities markets could adversely affect the market prices of our common shares or the ADRs and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. 27 We may become a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences to U.S. investors. Based on our financial statements, relevant market and shareholder data, and the projected composition of our income and valuation of our assets, including goodwill, we do not believe that we were a passive foreign investment company, or “PFIC,” for U.S. federal income tax purposes for 2011, and we do not expect to be a PFIC for 2012 or in the future, although we can provide no assurances in this regard. If we become a PFIC, U.S. holders of our common shares or ADRs may become subject to increased tax liabilities under U.S. tax laws and regulations and will become subject to burdensome reporting requirements. The determination of whether or not we are a PFIC is made on an annual basis and will depend on the composition of our income and assets from time to time. Specifically, for any taxable year we will be classified as a PFIC for U.S. tax purposes if either (i) 75% or more of our gross income in that taxable year is passive income or (ii) the average percentage of our assets (which includes cash) by value in that taxable year which produce or are held for the production of passive income is at least 50%. The calculation of the value of our assets will be based, in part, on the quarterly market value of our common shares and ADRs, which is subject to change. See “Item 10. Additional Information––E. Taxation––U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations––Passive Foreign Investment Company.” 