Item 1A. Risk Factors Our financial and operational results are subject to various risks and uncertainties including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties, including general economic and business risks, that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks or others not specified below materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Risks Related to Our Business and Industry We are substantially dependent upon customer renewals, the addition of new customers and the continued growth of the market for cloud-based event and meeting management platform. We derive, and expect to continue to derive, a substantial portion of our revenue from the sale of our cloud-based event and meeting management platform. During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, 70%, 70% and 73%, respectively, of our total revenue was derived from our cloud-based event and meeting management platform. The market for event and meeting management software is still evolving, and competitive dynamics may cause pricing levels to change as the market matures and as existing and new market participants introduce new types of solutions and different approaches to enable event and meeting planners and hotels to address their respective needs. As a result, we may be forced to reduce the prices we charge for our solutions and may be unable to renew existing customer agreements or enter into new customer agreements at the same prices and upon the same terms that we have historically. Widespread acceptance and use of the cloud-based business model for delivery of our event and meeting management platform is critical to our future growth and success. Under the perpetual or periodic license model for software procurement, users of the software would typically install and operate the applications on their hardware. Because many companies were historically predisposed to maintaining control of their information technology, or IT, systems and infrastructure, there may be resistance to the concept of accessing a cloud-based service provided by a third party. If the market for cloud-based event and meeting management software fails to grow, grows more slowly than we currently anticipate or evolves and forces us to reduce the prices we charge for our solutions, our operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We are subject to U.S. and foreign data privacy and protection laws and regulations as well as contractual privacy obligations, and our failure to comply could subject us to fines and damages and would harm our reputation and business. We are subject to the data privacy and protection laws and regulations adopted by federal, state and foreign governmental agencies. Data privacy and protection is highly regulated, and may become the subject of additional regulation in the future. Privacy laws restrict our storage, use, processing, disclosure, transfer and protection of non-public personal information, including credit card data, provided to us by our event and meeting planners and registrants. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, policies and legal obligations relating to privacy and data protection. However, it is possible that these requirements may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with federal, state, or international laws, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data or consumer protection, could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others. The regulatory framework for privacy and data protection issues worldwide is evolving, and various government and consumer agencies and public advocacy groups have called for new regulation and changes in industry practices, including some directed at providers of mobile and online resources in particular. In addition, as we expand our operations globally, compliance with regulations that differ from country to country may also impose substantial burdens on our business. In particular, the European Union, or EU, has traditionally taken a broader view as to what is considered personal information and has imposed greater obligations under data privacy regulations. In addition, individual EU member countries have had discretion with respect to their interpretation and implementation of the regulations, which has resulted in variation of privacy standards from country to country. Complying with any additional or new regulatory requirements could force us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could compromise our ability to effectively pursue our growth strategy. We are subject to the privacy and data protection-related obligations in our contracts with our customers and other third parties, including voluntary third-party trade associations and industry self-regulatory groups that promulgate best practices or codes of conduct such as the Direct Marketing Association. We could be adversely affected by changes to these guidelines and codes in ways that are inconsistent with our practices or in conflict with the laws and regulations of the United States, foreign or international regulatory authorities. We may also be contractually liable to indemnify and hold harmless our clients from the costs or consequences of inadvertent or unauthorized disclosure of data that we store or handle as part of providing our services. Finally, we are also subject to contractual obligations and other legal restrictions with respect to our collection and use of data, and we may be liable to third parties in the event we are deemed to have wrongfully used or gathered data. Any failure by us or a third-party contractor providing services to us to comply with applicable privacy and data protection laws, regulations, self-regulatory requirements or industry guidelines, our contractual privacy obligations or our own privacy policies, may result in fines, statutory or contractual damages, litigation or governmental enforcement actions. These proceedings or violations could force us to spend significant amounts in defense or settlement of these proceedings, result in the imposition of monetary liability, distract our management, increase our costs of doing business, and adversely affect our reputation and the demand for our solutions. 13 Table of Contents We have experienced rapid growth and organizational change in recent periods and expect continued future growth. If we fail to manage our growth effectively, we may be unable to execute our business plan, maintain high levels of service or address competitive challenges adequately. Our head count and operations have grown, both domestically and internationally, since our inception. In particular, during the year ended December 31, 2013 alone, we have added over 360 full-time positions. This growth has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, administrative, operational and financial infrastructure. We anticipate further growth will be required to address increases in our platform offerings and continued expansion. Our success will depend in part upon the ability of our management team to manage this growth effectively. To do so, we must continue to recruit, hire, train, manage and integrate a significant number of qualified managers, technical personnel and employees in specialized roles within our company, including in technology, sales and marketing. If our new employees perform poorly, or if we are unsuccessful in recruiting, hiring, training, managing and integrating these new employees, or retaining these or our existing employees, our business may suffer. In addition, to manage the expected continued growth of our head count, operations and geographic expansion, we will need to continue to improve our information technology infrastructure, operational, financial and management systems and procedures. Our anticipated additional head count and capital investments will increase our costs, which will make it more difficult for us to address any future revenue shortfalls by reducing expenses in the short term. If we fail to successfully manage our growth, we will be unable to successfully execute our business plan, which could have a negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Federal, state and foreign laws impose certain obligations on the senders of commercial emails, which could minimize the effectiveness of our event management email solutions, limit our ability to market to prospective customers and impose financial penalties for noncompliance. The U.S.’s CAN-SPAM Act establishes certain requirements for commercial email messages and specifies penalties for the transmission of commercial email messages that are intended to deceive the recipient as to source or content. The CAN-SPAM Act, among other things, obligates the sender of commercial emails to provide recipients with the ability to opt out of receiving future emails from the sender. In addition, some states have passed laws regulating commercial email practices that are significantly more punitive and difficult to comply with than the CAN-SPAM Act. The ability of recipients of emails from our customers using our event management software to opt out of receiving commercial emails may minimize the effectiveness of our solutions for our customers. Also, the ability of event planners to opt out of receiving future emails from us may minimize our ability to expand our event planner network. In addition, noncompliance with the CAN-SPAM Act carries significant litigation, regulatory investigation and related risks. If we were found to be in violation of the CAN-SPAM Act or similar state or international laws regulating the distribution of commercial email, whether as a result of violations by our customers or if we were deemed to be directly subject to and in violation of these requirements, we could incur penalties, and significant litigation and investigation-related expenses, and any inquiries might impact the deliverability of our commercial email regardless of outcome. This would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition and significantly harm our business, and our reputation would suffer. We also may be required to change one or more aspects of the way we operate our business, which could impair our ability to attract and retain customers or could increase our operating costs. Our business depends on maintaining and expanding our relationships with hotels and venues. An important component of our business success depends on our ability to maintain and expand relationships with hotels and venues. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from compensation negotiated with hotels and venues for marketing solutions, particularly through the Cvent Supplier Network. If we are unable to continue to successfully sell marketing solutions to individual hotels and venues, our financial results may suffer. Furthermore, although individual hotel properties typically make separate decisions as to their advertising spending, the influence of the corporate offices of major hotel chains may affect the decisions of their individual properties. For example, if the corporate parent discontinues its relationship with us in favor of another solution, our relationship with the properties under that brand may suffer even though, in nearly all cases, we negotiate with each property individually. This may lead to considerable lost revenue or result in additional costs to complete sales of our advertising, any of which would adversely affect our operating results. Finally, our strong network relationships with hotels and venues are a key differentiator for our event management solutions. If we are unable to maintain and grow our network of hotels and venues, we may be unable to satisfy our customers’ needs, lose market share or incur additional costs to support our customers, all of which may adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. 14 Table of Contents Our long-term success depends, in part, on our ability to operate offices located outside of the United States including India. We currently maintain offices and have sales personnel in the United States, the United Kingdom and India, and we are exploring opening additional international offices. Any international expansion efforts that we may undertake may not be successful. In addition, conducting more extensive international operations subjects us to new risks that we have not generally faced in the United States. These risks include: • unexpected costs and errors in the localization of our solutions, including translation into foreign languages and adaptation for local practices and regulatory requirements; • challenges posed by different pricing environments and different forms of competition; • lack of familiarity and burdens of complying with foreign laws, legal standards, regulatory requirements, tariffs, and other barriers; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, taxes, trade laws, tariffs, export quotas, custom duties or other trade restrictions; • difficulties in managing technology partners; differing technology standards; • difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; • varying expectations as to employee standards; fluctuations in exchange rates that may increase the volatility of our foreign based revenue and costs; potentially adverse tax consequences, including arising from the complexities of foreign value added tax (or other tax, including transfer pricing) systems and restrictions on the repatriation of earnings; • an uncertain political and economic climates; • reduced or varied protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. These factors and other related issues may cause our costs of doing business in new geographies to exceed the existing costs of our comparable operations in the United States and India. Operating in new international markets also requires significant management attention and financial resources. Any negative impact from our international business efforts could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant operations in India. As of December 31, 2013, 744 of our approximately 1,450 employees were based in India. Operating in India requires substantial resources and management attention and subjects us to economic, political and operational risks that are different from those in the United States. For example, there have been armed conflicts between India and neighboring Pakistan. Also, extremist groups within India and neighboring Pakistan have from time to time targeted Western interests. Other risks specific to our operations in India include, but are not limited to, difficulty with responding to changes in economic conditions that may include inflation and fluctuations in exchange rates and interest rates; problems that impair our business infrastructure, such as telephone system failure or an international disruption of our information technology systems by a third party; failure to act in accordance with labor, environmental, health and safety standards and regulations; and the need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. If any of these risks materialize, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. If the security of our customers’ confidential information stored in our systems is breached or otherwise subjected to unauthorized access, our reputation may be severely harmed and we may be exposed to liability. Our system stores personally identifiable information, proprietary email distribution lists, credit card information and other critical data for our customers and our customers’ event participants. We believe that we take reasonable steps to protect the security, integrity and confidentiality of the information we collect and store, but there is no guarantee that inadvertent (e.g., software bugs or other technical malfunctions, employee error or malfeasance, or other factors) or unauthorized disclosure will not occur or that third parties will not gain unauthorized access to this information despite our efforts. We have in the past and we may again in the future experience successful attempts by third-parties to obtain unauthorized access to our data despite our security measures. Since techniques used to obtain unauthorized access change frequently, we and our third-party hosting facilities may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Any willful or accidental security breaches or other unauthorized access could expose us to liability for the loss of such information, adverse regulatory action by federal and state governments, time-consuming and expensive investigation and litigation, extensive downtime of our systems and other possible liabilities. If our security measures are breached because of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, or if design flaws in our software are exposed and exploited, and, as a result, a third party obtains unauthorized access to any of our customers’ data, our relationships with our customers will be severely damaged, and we could incur significant liability. In addition, many jurisdictions have enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data, and our agreements with certain partners require us to notify them in the event of a security incident. These mandatory disclosures regarding a security breach often lead to widespread negative publicity and may cause our customers to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our data security measures. Any security breach, whether actual or perceived, would harm our reputation, and we could lose customers or fail to acquire new customers. If we experience compromises to our information technology as a result of security lapses, technical difficulties or otherwise that result in performance or availability problems of our cloud-based solutions, the complete shutdown of our cloud-based solutions, or the loss or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, our partners or customers may be harmed or lose trust and confidence in us, and decrease the use of our solution or stop using our solution in its entirety, and we would suffer reputational and financial harm. Our third-party vendors may also suspend or discontinue their relationships with us. Additionally, in the future, we could be subject to regulatory investigations and litigation in connection with a security breach or related issue, and we could also face regulatory fines and be liable to third parties for these types of breaches. For example, we work with third-party vendors to process credit card payments by our customers and are subject to payment card association operating rules. If our security measures fail to protect this information adequately or we fail to comply with the applicable operating rules, we could be liable to both our customers for their losses, as well as the vendors under our agreements with them, we could be subject to fines and higher transaction fees, we could face regulatory action, and our customers and vendors could end their relationships with us, any of which could harm our business, results of operations or financial condition. 15 Table of Contents There can be no assurance that the limitations of liability in our contracts would be enforceable or adequate or would otherwise protect us from any such liabilities or damages with respect to any particular claim. We also cannot provide assurances that our existing general liability insurance coverage and coverage for errors and omissions will continue to be available on acceptable terms or will be available in sufficient amounts to cover one or more large claims or that the insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. The successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds available insurance coverage, or the occurrence of changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of large deductible or co-insurance requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to protect our intellectual property, in the United States and abroad, could harm our business and operating results. Our business depends on proprietary technology and content, including software, databases, confidential information and know-how, the protection of which is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of trademark, domain name, trade secret, and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology and content. We have begun to seek patent protection for certain of our technologies and currently have one U.S. patent application on file, although there can be no assurance that a patent will ultimately be issued. We are also pursuing the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the United States and in certain locations outside the United States. Effective trademark, trade secret, patent, copyright and domain name protection is expensive to develop and maintain, and the costs of defending our rights may be significant. The intellectual property rights we obtain may not be sufficient to provide us with a competitive advantage, and may be successfully challenged, invalidated, circumvented, infringed or misappropriated. For example, in the past, competitors in both the United States and foreign jurisdictions have infringed our trademark rights and infringed our copyright rights and we have incurred varying levels of costs to respond to such infringement. Over time, we may increase our investment in protecting our intellectual property through additional trademark, patent and other intellectual property filings that could be expensive and time-consuming. Some aspects of our business and services also rely on technologies, software and content developed by or licensed from third parties, and we may not be able to maintain our relationships with such third parties or enter into similar relationships in the future on reasonable terms or at all. We may also be required to protect our proprietary technology and content in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is potentially expensive and may not be successful, or which we may not pursue in every location. In addition, effective intellectual property protection may not be available to us in every country, and the laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States. Additional uncertainty may result from changes to intellectual property legislation enacted in the United States and elsewhere, and from interpretations of intellectual property laws by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to obtain and maintain the intellectual property rights necessary to provide us with a competitive advantage. We attempt to further protect our proprietary technology and content by requiring our employees and consultants to enter into confidentiality and assignment of inventions agreements and third parties to enter into nondisclosure agreements. These agreements may not effectively prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our confidential information, intellectual property or technology. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider confidential or proprietary. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights; to protect our trademarks, trade secrets, patents, copyrights and domain names; and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We may also be involved in disputes relating to the rights to, and ownership of, the intellectual property developed by our employees, consultants and others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources, as well as the invalidation or narrowing of the scope of our intellectual property, any of which could harm our business and operating results. Attempting to enforce our intellectual property rights against third parties could also expose us to counterclaims from such third parties. Claims by third parties that we infringe upon their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. Our success depends, in part, upon our noninfringement of intellectual property rights owned by others and being able to resolve claims of intellectual property infringement without major financial expenditures or adverse consequences. The software industry generally is characterized by extensive intellectual property litigation. Although we were an early pioneer of event management software, a field which continues to rapidly evolve, many participants that own, or claim to own, intellectual property related to elements of our business historically have aggressively asserted their rights. From time to time, we may be subject to legal proceedings and claims that we, our customers, licensees or parties indemnified by us are infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating the intellectual property rights of others, and the risk of such proceedings and claims may increase as we expand the complexity, scope and public profile of our business. For example, we may be subject to claims that we are infringing the patent, trademark or copyright rights of third parties, or that our employees have misappropriated or divulged their former employers’ trade secrets or confidential information. 16 Table of Contents It may therefore be necessary to defend against future claims by, for example, determining the scope, enforceability and validity of third-party proprietary rights or asserting and defining our proprietary rights. Some claimants may have substantially greater resources than we do and may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation to a greater degree and for longer periods of time than we could. In addition, patent holding companies that focus solely on extracting royalties and settlements by enforcing patent rights may target us. Regardless of whether they have any merit, these claims are time-consuming and costly to evaluate and defend and could: • adversely affect our relationships with our current or future customers; • cause delays or stoppages in providing our software solutions; • divert management’s attention and resources; • require technology changes to our platform that would cause us to incur substantial cost; • subject us to significant liabilities; • necessitate incurring significant legal fees; and • require us to cease some or all of our activities. In addition to liability for monetary damages against us, which may be tripled and may include attorneys’ fees, or, in some circumstances, damages against our customers, we may be prohibited from developing, commercializing or continuing to provide some or all of our event and meeting management solutions unless we obtain licenses from, and pay royalties to, the holders of the patents or other intellectual property rights, which may not be available on commercially favorable terms, or at all. We face significant competition from established and new companies offering event and meeting management software and from internally developed software. The market for event and meeting management software is evolving, highly competitive and significantly fragmented, and we expect competition to continue to increase in the future. With the increased demands for event and meeting management solutions as well as the potential influx of new entrants to the market, we expect competition to intensify in the future, which could harm our ability to increase sales and maintain our prices. Our competitors vary with each challenge that our event and meeting management solutions address, and include providers of point solutions for email marketing, event registration, ecommerce payments, budgeting, web surveys, web content management, scheduling, room and table assignments, name badging, mobile app development and social media. If individual point solutions become less expensive, we may face general pricing pressure. For example, if mobile app development increases significantly and as a result developers reduce their fees, we may be forced to reduce the fees that we charge for our mobile event apps to remain competitive. We expect to face additional competition with the continued development and expansion of the event management software market. We expect that new competitors, such as software vendors that have traditionally focused on other applications, may enter the event and meeting management market with competing products, which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Additionally, competitors may develop a comprehensive event and meeting management platform that is similar to our own. Our current and potential competitors may have significantly more financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have; be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products and services; have more extensive customer bases and broader customer relationships; and have longer operating histories and greater name recognition. As a result, these competitors may be better able to respond quickly to new technologies and to undertake more extensive marketing campaigns. In some cases, these vendors may also be able to offer event and meeting management solutions at little or no additional cost by bundling them with their existing applications. If we are unable to compete with such companies, the demand for our solutions could substantially decline. To the extent any of our competitors have existing relationships with potential customers, those customers may be unwilling to purchase our solutions because of those existing relationships with that competitor. To the extent that we consider acquiring one of our competitors, this heightened competition could increase the cost of an acquisition within our industry. 17 Table of Contents In the past we have completed acquisitions and may acquire or invest in other companies or technologies in the future, which could divert management’s attention, fail to meet our expectations, result in additional dilution to our stockholders, increase expenses, disrupt our operations and harm our operating results. We have acquired businesses, products or technologies that we believe could complement or expand our platform, enhance our technical capabilities or otherwise offer growth opportunities. We cannot assure you that we will realize the anticipated benefits of these or any future acquisitions. The potential pursuit of additional acquisitions may divert the attention of management and cause us to incur various expenses related to identifying, investigating and pursuing suitable acquisitions, whether or not they are completed. If we acquire additional businesses, we may be unable to assimilate or integrate the acquired personnel, operations or technologies successfully, effectively manage the combined business following the acquisition and our management may be distracted from operating our existing business. We also may not achieve the anticipated benefits from the acquired business due to a number of factors, including, but not limited to the following: • unanticipated costs or liabilities associated with the acquisition; incurrence of acquisition-related costs, which would be recognized as a current period expense; • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs; • the inability to maintain relationships with customers and partners of the acquired business; • the difficulty of incorporating acquired technology and rights into our platform and of maintaining quality and security standards consistent with our brand; • delays in customer purchases due to uncertainty related to any acquisition; • the need to integrate or implement additional controls, procedures and policies; • challenges caused by distance, language and cultural differences; • harm to our existing business relationships with business partners and customers as a result of the acquisition; • the potential loss of key employees; • use of resources that are needed in other parts of our business and diversion of management and employee resources; • the inability to recognize acquired revenue in accordance with our revenue recognition policies and the loss of acquired deferred revenue; • the use of substantial portions of our available cash or the incurrence of debt to consummate the acquisition. Acquisitions may also increase the risk of unforeseen legal liability, including for potential violations of applicable law or industry rules and regulations, arising from prior or ongoing acts or omissions by the acquired businesses which are not discovered by due diligence during the acquisition process. If an acquired business fails to meet our expectations, our operating results, business and financial condition may suffer. Acquisitions could also result in dilutive issuances of equity securities or the incurrence of debt, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, a significant portion of the purchase price of companies we acquire may be allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets, which must be assessed for impairment at least annually. Also, contingent consideration related to acquisitions will be remeasured to fair value at each reporting period, with any changes in the value recorded as income or expense. Our recent acquisitions all contained a contingent consideration element as well as other compensatory arrangements based on continued employment of certain key employees. If our acquisitions do not ultimately yield expected returns, we may be required to take charges to our operating results based on our impairment assessment process, which could harm our results of operations. Any significant disruption in service on our websites, mobile applications or in our computer systems, could damage our reputation and result in fees to customers or a loss of users, which would harm our business and operating results. Our websites, mobile applications and computer systems, the majority of which are hosted by third-party providers, are a critical component of our business. We have experienced limited interruptions in these systems in the past, including server failures that temporarily slowed down the performance of our websites and mobile applications, and we may experience more significant interruptions in the future. Regardless of cause, any interruptions in these systems, could affect the security or availability of our services on our websites and mobile applications and prevent or inhibit the ability of our customers and event and meeting registrants to access our services. Problems with the reliability or security of our systems could also harm our reputation or result in substantial costs to remedy these problems, any of which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have entered into agreements with many of our customers and business partners that obligate us to compensate them should an interruption affect their use of our services. While some of the communications, network and computer hardware used to provide our services, including our websites and mobile applications, are located at our headquarters in McLean, Virginia, a significant amount of this hardware is located in a facility in Ashburn, Virginia which we do not own or control. Also, businesses we have acquired rely heavily on third-party service providers to host their software applications, web services, data storage, credit card processing and other computing infrastructure, thereby increasing our dependence on these third party providers. Problems faced by our third-party information technology providers could adversely affect the experience of our customers. Any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our third-party information technology providers could directly affect our ability to provide services to our customers, which may result in liabilities to us and our customers, harm our reputation and negatively affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents We are dependent on the maintenance and expansion of the infrastructure of the internet, over which we have no control. Any failure of the internet infrastructure we rely on, even for a short period of time, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In addition, our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage, interruption or complete failure from fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, terrorist attacks, acts of war, electronic and physical break-ins, computer viruses, earthquakes and similar events. Our systems are not completely redundant, so a failure of our system at one site could result in reduced functionality for our customers, and a total failure of our systems at both sites could cause our platform to be completely unavailable for all customers. We are subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, and if we fail to adhere to their rules and regulations, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks, which could subject us to damages and liability and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting credit card payments. The payment card networks, such as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who process and accept credit cards for payment of goods and services. We are obligated to comply with these rules and regulations as part of the contracts we enter into with payment processors and merchant banks. The rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks include the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, or the PCI DSS. Under the PCI DSS, we are required to adopt and implement internal controls over the use, storage and security of payment card data to help prevent fraud. We assess our compliance with the PCI DSS on a periodic basis, and make necessary improvements to our internal controls. If we fail to comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, including the PCI DSS, we would be in breach of our contractual obligations to payment processors and merchant banks. Such failure to comply may subject us to fines, penalties, damages and civil liability, and could eventually prevent us from processing or accepting debit and credit cards or could lead to a loss of payment processor partners. Further, there is no guarantee that even if we comply with the rules and regulations adopted by the payment card networks, we will be able to maintain our compliance. For example, we have acquired businesses in the past that were not immediately compliant with PCI DSS at the time of our acquisition. Until those businesses are fully integrated with our own systems we may be unable to comply with PCI DSS standards for those acquired businesses without substantial additional costs. We also cannot guarantee that such compliance will prevent illegal or improper use of our payments systems or the theft, loss or misuse of the debit or credit card data of customers or participants or regulatory or criminal investigations. Any such event would harm our reputation and may result in a loss of service for our customers, which would adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business is susceptible to declines or disruptions in the demand for events and meetings, including those due to economic downturns or natural disasters. Our business and financial performance are affected by the health of the worldwide events and meetings industry. Events and meetings are sensitive to business-related discretionary spending levels and tend to grow more slowly or even decline during economic downturns. Decreased expenditures by meeting planners and participants could also result in decreased demand for our event management solutions, thereby causing a reduction in our sales. In addition, sales of our marketing solutions to hotels and venues may suffer if fewer event and meeting planners use our solutions. Although we are optimistic about the capabilities of our solutions to assist event and meeting planners in maximizing return on investment when funds available to spend on events are limited, further economic weakness and uncertainty may nonetheless result in significantly decreased spending on our event and meeting management solutions, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. External factors beyond our control may adversely affect the events and meetings industry, with a corresponding negative impact on our business and operating results. Economic downturns, natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tsunamis, earthquakes or volcanic eruptions, and other phenomena, such as pandemics and epidemics, have previously disrupted normal travel patterns and levels, which has correspondingly disrupted the events and meetings industry. The events and meetings industry is also sensitive to other events beyond our control, such as political instability, regional hostilities, increases in fuel prices, the emergence and widespread adoption of more-effective teleconference and virtual meeting technologies, imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, travel related accidents and terrorist attacks, any of which could have an impact on our business and results of operations. For example, the September 2001 terrorist attacks in the U.S. had a dramatic and sustained impact on the travel industry generally, which had a corresponding negative impact on the events and meetings industry thereafter. Any future terrorist attack, whether on a small or large scale, could have a material and negative impact on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent in part upon our relationships with our strategic partners to sustain the flow of business through the Cvent Supplier Network. Our access to certain customers is facilitated in some cases by strategic partner relationships with certain companies. If these strategic partners terminate or do not renew their relationships with us, it could have a negative effect on revenue for sales of our event management software solutions. Approximately 59% of the RFPs transmitted to hotels and venues through our CSN during the year ended December 31, 2013 originated from event planners introduced to us through these partnerships. As such, the loss of several of these partnerships would greatly diminish the value of the CSN. 19 Table of Contents Growth of our business will depend on a strong brand, and any failure to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand would hurt our ability to retain or expand our base of users, or our ability to increase their level of engagement. We believe that a strong brand is necessary to continue to attract and retain event and meeting planners and, in turn, the hotels and venues who choose to advertise on the Cvent Supplier Network. We need to maintain, protect, and enhance our brand to expand our base of customers and users and increase their engagement with our solutions. This will depend largely on our ability to continue to provide high-value, differentiated solutions, and we may not be able to do so effectively. While we may choose to engage in a broader marketing campaign to further promote our brand, this effort may not be successful. Furthermore, negative publicity about our company, including our content, technology, sales practices, personnel or customer service could diminish confidence in, and the use of, our solutions, any of which could harm our operating results. If we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of our brand cost-effectively, our business, operating results and financial condition could be harmed. Event and meeting planners may not widely adopt our applications to manage the important aspects of their events and meetings, which would limit our ability to grow our business. Our ability to grow our business and increase revenue depends on our success in educating event and meeting planners about the potential benefits of our cloud-based platform. Cloud applications for organizing and managing important aspects of events and meetings have not previously been widely adopted by event and meeting planners. Concerns about cost, fraud, privacy, security, reliability and other issues may cause event and meeting planners not to adopt our applications. Moreover, event and meeting planners who have already invested substantial resources in other registration and management systems or methods may be reluctant to adopt a new approach like ours to supplement or replace existing systems or methods. If event and meeting planners do not widely adopt applications such as ours, our ability to grow our business will be limited. We have experienced losses in the past and we may not sustain profitability in the future. We have incurred a significant accumulated deficit in prior periods, in large part due to accretion of redemption features on previously outstanding preferred stock in those periods. We experienced a net loss of $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, and have an accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2013 of $23.0 million. We anticipate that our operating expenses will increase substantially in the foreseeable future as we continue to invest to grow our business and acquire clients, develop our platform, develop new solutions and comply with the requirements of being a public company. These efforts may prove to be more expensive than we currently anticipate, and we may not succeed in increasing our revenue sufficiently to offset these higher expenses. Many of our efforts to generate revenue from our business, particularly with respect to our marketing solutions, are unproven, and any failure to increase our revenue or generate revenue from new solutions could prevent us from attaining or increasing profitability. Furthermore, to the extent we are successful in increasing our customer base, we could also incur increased losses because costs associated with entering into customer agreements are generally incurred up front, while revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. If we are unable to effectively manage these risks and difficulties as we encounter them, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our revenue and operating results. We generally experience seasonality in our marketing solutions sales due to the seasonality of the underlying marketing budgets of hotels and venues. Hotels and venues advertising on the Cvent Supplier Network have historically made more purchasing decisions in the fourth quarter of the calendar year. If we do not continue to innovate and provide solutions that are useful to our customers and event registrants and attendees, we may not remain competitive, and our revenue and operating results could suffer. Our success depends on continued innovation to provide features and services that make our solutions, websites and mobile apps useful for event and meeting planners, hotels and venues and event registrants and attendees. Our competitors are frequently developing innovations in services and features. Additionally, the rapid pace at which technology evolves generally requires us to find new ways to deliver our solutions to end users with better performance and functionality. As a result, we must continue to invest significant resources in research and development in order to continually improve the speed, accuracy and comprehensiveness of our solutions. We may introduce significant changes to our existing solutions or develop and introduce new and unproven solutions, including using technologies with which we have little or no prior development or operating experience. If we are unable to continue offering innovative solutions or if new or enhanced solutions fail to engage event and meeting planners, hotels and venues or event registrants and attendees, we may be unable to attract additional customers or event registrants or retain our current customers or event registrants and attendees, which may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. 20 Table of Contents Defects or disruptions in the rollout of our new products and product enhancements could diminish demand for our service, adversely affect our reputation and subject us to substantial liability. Like many internet-based cloud companies, we provide frequent incremental releases of product updates and functional enhancements. Such new versions frequently contain undetected errors when first introduced or released. We have, from time to time, found defects in our service, and new errors in our existing service may be detected in the future. In addition, our customers may use our service in unanticipated ways that may cause a disruption in service for other customers or for event registrants. Since our customers use our service for important aspects of their business, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our service could hurt our reputation and may damage our customers’ businesses. If that occurs, our customers may delay or withhold payment to us, elect not to renew, make service credit claims, warranty claims or other claims against us, and we could lose future sales. The occurrence of any of these events could result in an increase in our bad debt expense, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable, require us to increase our warranty provisions or incur the expense or risk of litigation. Further, if we are unable to meet the stated service level commitments we have guaranteed to our customers or suffer extended periods of unavailability for our service, we may be contractually obligated to provide these customers with credits for future service, and there would be a negative impact on our reputation. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel, including senior management and our sales and technology professionals; if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. We believe our success has depended, and continues to depend, on the efforts and talents of our senior management and our highly skilled team members, including our sales personnel and software engineers. Competition for well-qualified employees in all aspects of our business, including sales personnel and software engineers, is intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate existing employees. If we do not succeed in attracting well-qualified employees or retaining and motivating existing employees, our business would be adversely affected. The loss of any of our senior management or key employees could adversely affect our ability to build on the efforts they have undertaken and to execute our business plan, and we may not be able to find adequate replacements. We cannot ensure that we will be able to retain the services of any members of our senior management or other key employees. Our business depends substantially on renewing agreements with existing customers and selling additional solutions to them. Any decline in our customer renewals or expansions would likely harm our future operating results, especially if we are unable to recognize sufficient revenue to offset related customer acquisition costs prior to such termination or cancellation of our customer agreements. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that our event and meeting management customers renew their subscription agreements and our hotel and venue advertisers renew their advertising agreements with us when the initial term expires, as well as purchase additional solutions and advertising from us. We offer our event and meeting management solutions primarily through annual and multi-year subscription agreements and our hotel and venue marketing solutions primarily through a mix of single-year and multi-year arrangements. In some cases, our customers have no renewal obligation after their initial term expires, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to renew agreements with any of our customers at the same or higher contract value. Some agreements also contain a termination right for the customer in the event of customer dissatisfaction with our services because of substantial nonperformance that remains uncured by us. In addition, some of our customer contracts allow for a termination for convenience. Our ten largest event and meeting management customers and our largest ten hotel and venue advertising customers during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 represented 3% of our total revenue during those periods. If our customers do not renew their agreements, renew on less favorable terms or fail to purchase additional solutions or advertising, our revenue may decline, and our operating results would likely be harmed. We typically bill customers for no longer than the next fiscal year with payment due upfront regardless of the full length of the contract, although we incur most of our customer acquisition costs at the time of sale. Depending upon the scope of the customer’s needs, these costs can be significant. If a customer does not renew or cancels its agreement with us, we may not recognize sufficient revenue from that customer prior to the termination or cancellation to offset the acquisition costs associated with that customer. If we fail to offer high quality customer support, our business and reputation would suffer. Our customers rely on our customer support services. High-quality education and customer support is important for the successful marketing and sale of our solutions and for the renewal of our agreements with existing customers. The importance of high quality customer support will increase as we expand our business and pursue new customers. If we do not help our customers quickly resolve issues and provide effective ongoing support, our ability to sell new services to existing and new customers would suffer and our reputation with existing or potential customers would be harmed. 21 Table of Contents Our growth rate over the past few years may not be sustainable. If we fail to maintain an adequate growth rate, our business will be adversely affected and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. Our revenue has grown rapidly over the past few years. We may not be able to sustain this level of growth in future periods, and you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual period as an indication of our future performance. Further, a portion of our revenue growth in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 resulted from acquisitions and not organic growth. We may not complete acquisitions in the future that increase our revenue at the same rate as in prior periods. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete the acquisitions we do identify as worth pursuing. If we are unable to maintain an adequate rate of growth, our business will be adversely affected and we may not maintain profitability. Failure to adequately expand our direct sales force will impede our growth. We will need to continue to expand and optimize our sales infrastructure in order to grow our customer base and our business. We plan to continue to expand our direct sales force, both domestically and internationally. Identifying and recruiting qualified personnel and training them requires significant time, expense and attention. It can take several months before our sales representatives are fully trained and productive. Our business may be adversely affected if our efforts to expand and train our direct sales force do not generate a corresponding increase in revenue. In particular, if we are unable to hire, develop and retain talented sales personnel, or if new direct sales personnel are unable to achieve desired productivity levels in a reasonable period of time, we may not be able to realize the expected benefits of this investment or increase our revenue. We have previously identified material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, and if we are unable to achieve and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or effective disclosure controls, this could have a material adverse effect on our business. We produce our consolidated financial statements in accordance with the requirements of U.S. GAAP. Effective internal controls are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports, to help mitigate the risk of fraud and to operate successfully as a publicly traded company. In connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, we concluded there is a material weakness in the design and operating effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as defined in SEC Regulation S-X. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of a company’s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis by the company’s internal controls. The primary factors contributing to the material weakness, which relates to our control environment and financial statement close process, were: • We have ineffective entity level and process level controls impacting the preparation and review of our consolidated financial statements. We have ineffective monitoring and management oversight of the financial reporting control environment and ineffective process level controls related to the review of manually prepared analyses and supporting information used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Specifically, we determined that we had significant deficiencies related to inappropriately designed and ineffective controls over our cut off procedures, reviews of account reconciliations and account analyses, and ineffective controls related to the preparation and review of our financial statements, all of which, in the aggregate, were determined to be a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. • We did not have adequate policies and procedures in place to ensure the effective design and operation of general IT controls over our financial reporting systems. Specifically, we identified deficiencies in internal controls related to access to programs and data, and program development and changes, which we consider in the aggregate to be a material weakness, due to the inability to rely on certain system generated reports and application controls. As previously disclosed, in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, we determined that we had significant deficiencies related to our review of equity transactions, controls related to the preparation and review of our tax provision and the operation of our financial reporting controls, all of which aggregated to a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting. With the oversight of senior management and our audit committee, we have begun taking steps and plan to take additional measures to remediate the underlying causes of the identified material weaknesses, primarily through the performance of a risk assessment process; the development and implementation of formal, documented policies and procedures, improved processes and control activities (including an assessment of the segregation of duties); as well as the hiring of additional finance personnel for specific roles such as financial reporting. In March 2014, we hired a Sarbanes-Oxley, or SOX, Manager to assist us in our remediation efforts and in our efforts to improve our control environment. We expect to complete the development and formal documentation of our policies and procedures relating to our internal controls by the end of 2014; however, we cannot provide any assurance at this time that management will be able to report that our internal control over financial reporting is effective as of December 31, 2014, or that our registered public accounting firm will be able to attest that such internal controls are effective when they are required to do so. 22 Table of Contents Although we believe these controls, once properly designed and implemented, will be effective, we have not performed an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, nor have we engaged our independent registered public accounting firm to perform an audit of our internal control over financial reporting. Had we performed such an evaluation or had our independent registered public accounting firm performed an audit of our internal control over financial reporting, material weaknesses, in addition to those discussed above, may have been identified. As long as we qualify as an “emerging growth company” as defined by the Jumpstart our Business Startups Act of 2012, we will not be required to obtain an auditor’s attestation report on our internal controls in future annual reports on Form 10-K as otherwise required by Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Our qualification as an emerging growth company may last for up to five years following our IPO on August 8, 2013. During the course of the evaluation, documentation or attestation, we or our independent registered public accounting firm may identify weaknesses and deficiencies that we may not otherwise identify in a timely manner or at all as a result of the deferred implementation of this additional level of review. As a result of various factors including, in part, the identified material weaknesses in the design and operation of our internal controls over financial reporting, our management concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2013 were ineffective. Furthermore, our management may be unable to conclude in future periods that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective due to the effects of various factors, which may, in part, include unremediated material weakness in internal controls over financial reporting. The term “disclosure controls and procedures,” as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company’s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We cannot assure you that we will be able to remediate our existing material weaknesses in a timely manner, if at all, or that in the future additional material weaknesses will not exist or otherwise be discovered, a risk that is significantly increased in light of the complexity of our business. If our efforts to remediate these material weaknesses are not successful or if other deficiencies occur, our ability to accurately and timely report our financial position, results of operations, cash flows or key operating metrics could be impaired, which could result in late filings of our annual and quarterly reports under the Exchange Act, restatements of our consolidated financial statements or other corrective disclosures. Additional impacts could include a decline in our stock price, suspension of trading or delisting of our common stock by the New York Stock Exchange, or other material adverse effects on our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Furthermore, if we continue to have these existing material weaknesses or other material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in the future, it could create a perception that our financial results do not fairly state our financial condition or results of operations. Any of the foregoing could have an adverse effect on the value of our stock. If we cannot maintain our corporate culture as we grow, we could lose the innovation, teamwork, passion and focus on execution that we believe contribute to our success, and our business may be harmed. We believe that a critical component to our success has been our corporate culture. We have invested substantial time and resources in building our team. As we grow and develop the infrastructure of a public company, we may find it difficult to maintain these important aspects of our corporate culture. Any failure to preserve our culture could negatively affect our future success, including our ability to retain and recruit personnel and to effectively focus on and pursue our corporate objectives. Because we generally recognize revenue from subscriptions ratably over the term of the agreement, near term changes in sales may not be reflected immediately in our operating results. We offer our event and meeting management solutions primarily through a mix of single-year and multi-year subscription agreements and generally recognize revenue ratably over the related subscription period. We offer our hotel and venue marketing solutions primarily through a mix of single-year and multi-year arrangements and generally recognize revenue ratably over the related advertising period. As a result, much of the revenue we report in each quarter is derived from the recognition of previously billed and unbilled contract value relating to agreements entered into during prior quarters or years. In addition, as we generally invoice for no more than the next fiscal year for any customer contracts, including those for multiple years, we do not record deferred revenue beyond amounts invoiced as a liability on our balance sheet. A decline in new or renewed subscriptions or marketing solutions agreements in any one quarter is not likely to be reflected immediately in our revenue results for that quarter. Such declines, however, would negatively affect our revenue and deferred revenue balances in future periods, and the effect of significant downturns in sales and market acceptance of our solutions, and potential changes in our rate of renewals, may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Our subscription and advertising model also makes it difficult for us to rapidly increase our total revenue and deferred revenue balance through additional sales in any period, as revenue from new customers must be recognized over the applicable subscription or advertising term. We may not be able to secure additional financing on favorable terms, or at all, to meet our future capital needs. We have funded our operations since inception primarily through equity financings, lease arrangements, and cash from operations. In the future, we may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions, a decline in the level of operating cash flows or unforeseen circumstances. We may determine to engage in equity or debt financings or enter into credit facilities for other reasons, and we may not be able to secure additional debt or equity financing in a timely manner on favorable terms, or at all. We do not currently have access to a credit arrangement, and we currently fund our operations using cash generated from operations. Any debt financing obtained by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we raise additional funds through further issuances of equity, convertible debt securities or other securities convertible into equity, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their ownership of our company, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us, when we require it, our ability to continue to grow or support our business and to respond to business challenges could be significantly limited. 23 Table of Contents Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are not currently required to comply with Securities and Exchange Commission rules that implement Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and are therefore not required to make a formal assessment of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for that purpose. At such time as we cease to be an “emerging growth company,” as defined by the JOBS Act, we will be required to comply with Section 404. We may subsequently identify material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in addition to those previously identified that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the applicable deadline imposed upon us for compliance with the requirements of Section 404. In addition, if we fail to achieve and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and any remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent registered public accounting firm may issue an adverse opinion due to ineffective internal controls over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission. As a result, there could be a negative reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. Changes in financial accounting standards or practices, or our application of those standards or practices may cause adverse, unexpected financial reporting fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations. Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission and various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. A change in accounting standards or practices can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. In addition, we may have flexibility to choose among multiple accounting methods that are generally accepted. Changes to existing rules, our application of those rules or the questioning of current practices may adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. We may have difficulty scaling and adapting our existing infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic and storage demands, technology advances or customer requirements, which could cause delays or service interruptions and adversely affect our operating and financial results. In the future, advances in technology, increases in traffic and storage demands and new customer requirements may require us to change our infrastructure, expand our infrastructure or replace our infrastructure entirely. Scaling and adapting our infrastructure is likely to be complex and require additional technical expertise. If we are required to make any changes to our infrastructure, we may incur substantial costs and experience delays or interruptions in our service. These delays or interruptions may cause customers and partners to become dissatisfied with our service and move to competing providers of event and meeting management solutions. Our failure to accommodate increased traffic and storage demands, increased costs, inefficiencies or failures to adapt to new technologies or customer requirements and the associated adjustments to our infrastructure could harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our applications utilize open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Some of our applications include software covered by open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, GNU General Public License and the Apache License. The terms of various open source licenses have not been interpreted by courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to market our applications. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our applications and to make our applications available under open source licenses, if we combine or distribute our applications with open source software in a certain manner. In the event that portions of our applications are determined to be subject to an open source license, we could be required to publicly release the affected portions of our source code, re-engineer all, or a portion of, those applications or otherwise be limited in the licensing of our applications, each of which could reduce or eliminate the value of our technologies and services. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on the origin of the software. Many of the risks associated with usage of open source software cannot be eliminated, and could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 24 Table of Contents If we do not or cannot maintain the compatibility of our solutions with third-party applications that our customers use in their businesses, demand for our solutions could decline. The functionality of our cloud-based platform depends, in part, on our ability to integrate it with third-party applications and data management systems that our customers use and from which they obtain data. In addition, we rely on access to third-party application programming interfaces, or APIs, to provide our social media channel offerings through social media platforms. Third-party providers of these applications, data management systems and APIs may terminate their relationships with us, change the features of their applications and platforms, restrict our access to their applications and platforms or alter the terms governing use of their applications, data management systems and APIs and access to those applications and platforms in an adverse manner. Such changes could functionally limit or terminate our ability to use these third-party applications and platforms with our cloud-based platform, which could negatively impact our offerings and harm our business. Further, if we fail to integrate our platform with new third-party applications and platforms that our customers use, or to adapt to the data transfer requirements of such third-party applications and platforms, we may not be able to offer the functionality that our customers need, which would negatively impact our offerings and, as a result, could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business may be adversely affected by third-party claims, including by governmental bodies, regarding the content and advertising distributed by our customers through our service. We rely on our customers to secure the rights to redistribute content over the internet or through mobile event apps, and we do not screen the content that they distribute using our solutions. There is no assurance that our customers have licensed all rights necessary for distribution, including internet or mobile app distribution. Other parties may claim certain rights in the content of our customers. In the event that our customers do not have the necessary distribution rights related to content, we may be required to cease distributing such content, or we may be subject to lawsuits and claims of damages for infringement of such rights. If these claims arise with frequency, the likelihood of our business being adversely affected would rise significantly. We may not be able to utilize a significant portion of our net operating loss carryforwards, which could adversely affect our profitability. As of December 31, 2013, we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards due to prior period losses, which, if not utilized, will begin to expire in 2021 for both federal and state purposes. These net operating loss carryforwards could expire unused and be unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our profitability. In addition, under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, our ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, such as research tax credits, in any taxable year may be further limited if we experience an “ownership change”. A Section 382 “ownership change” generally occurs if one or more stockholders or groups of stockholders who own at least 5% of our stock increase their ownership by more than 50 percentage points over their lowest ownership percentage within a rolling three-year period. Similar rules may apply under state tax laws. For example, we had an “ownership change” under Section 382 in 2001. Future issuances of our stock could cause an “ownership change.” It is possible that an ownership change in connection with any future ownership change, could have a material effect on the use of our net operating loss carryforwards or other tax attributes, which could adversely affect our profitability. We are a multinational organization faced with increasingly complex tax issues in many jurisdictions, including in the United States, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes in various jurisdictions. As a multinational organization that operates in numerous jurisdictions in the United States and around the world, we may be subject to taxation in several jurisdictions with increasingly complex tax laws, the application of which can be uncertain. The authorities in these jurisdictions, including state and local taxing authorities in the United States, could successfully assert that we are obligated to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties. In addition, the amount of taxes we pay could increase substantially as a result of changes in the applicable tax principles, including increased tax rates, new tax laws or revised interpretations of existing tax laws and precedents, which could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and operating results. The authorities could also claim that various withholding requirements apply to us or our subsidiaries or assert that benefits of tax treaties are not available to us or our subsidiaries, any of which could have a material impact on us and the results of our operations. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. We face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates, which may cause our revenue and operating results to differ materially from expectations. Our operating results could be negatively affected depending on the amount of expense denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Indian rupee. As exchange rates vary, revenue, cost of revenue, operating expenses and other operating results, when remeasured, may differ materially from expectations. In addition, our operating results are subject to fluctuation if our mix of U.S. and foreign currency denominated transactions and expenses changes in the future. Although we may apply certain strategies to mitigate foreign currency risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the strategies and potential accounting implications. Additionally, as we anticipate growing our business further outside of the U.S., the effects of movements in currency exchange rates will increase as our transaction volume outside of the U.S. increases. 25 Table of Contents A significant portion of our revenue is derived from event and meeting planners. As such, our business is dependent upon identifying new event planners. Revenue from our solutions for event and meeting planners has historically constituted the majority of our revenue and represented 70% of our total revenue for both the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. Event and meeting planners can be found in a range of corporate departments, which makes it difficult to identify prospective planner customers. Since our formation, we have proactively and systematically worked to identify potential event planner customers. However, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to identify new event planner customers, and the effort to identify new event planner customers will be more costly and time-consuming than seeking marketing contracts with new and existing venue customers. If the estimates and assumptions we use to determine the size of our target market, customer groups or the verticals within customer groups are inaccurate, our future growth rate may be limited and our business would be harmed. We calculate the size of our target market, customer groups and verticals within customer groups, based on data published by third parties and on internally generated data and assumptions. We have not independently verified any third-party information and cannot assure you of its accuracy or completeness. While we believe our market size information is generally reliable, such information is inherently imprecise. In addition, our projections, assumptions and estimates of future opportunities within our target market are necessarily subject to a high degree of uncertainty and risk due to a variety of factors, including those described in this report. If third-party or internally generated data prove to be inaccurate or we make errors in our assumptions based on that data, our future growth rate may be limited. In addition, these inaccuracies or errors may cause us to misallocate capital and other business resources, which would harm our business. As Internet commerce develops, federal, state and foreign governments may propose and implement new taxes and new laws to regulate Internet commerce, which could increase our operating costs and negatively affect our business. As Internet commerce continues to evolve, increasing regulation by federal, state or foreign governments becomes more likely. Our business could be negatively impacted by the enforcement of existing laws and regulations or the enactment of new laws applicable to interactive marketing. The cost to comply with such laws or regulations could be significant and would increase our operating expenses, and we may be unable to pass along those costs to our customers in the form of increased fees. Legislation introduced in Congress in 2013, if enacted into law, would authorize states to require out-of-state retailers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods sold online. In addition, federal, state and foreign governmental or regulatory agencies may decide to impose taxes on services provided over the Internet or via email. Such taxes could discourage the use of the Internet and email as a means of commercial marketing, which would adversely affect the viability of our software. If Internet search engines’ methodologies are modified or our search result page rankings decline for other reasons, participant engagement in our websites and online communities could decline. We depend in part on various Internet search engines to direct a significant amount of traffic to our websites. Our ability to maintain the number of potential participants directed to our websites is not entirely within our control. Our competitors’ search engine optimization, or SEO, efforts may result in their websites receiving a higher search result page ranking than ours, or Internet search engines could revise their methodologies in an attempt to improve search results, which could adversely affect placement of our search result page rankings. If search engine companies revise their search algorithms in ways that are detrimental to new participant growth on our websites or in ways that make it more difficult for organizers or participants to use our websites, or if competitors’ SEO efforts are more successful than ours, the overall growth in the numbers of organizers and participants using our websites could slow, participant engagement could decrease and we could lose existing participants and become less attractive to existing and prospective organizer customers. Our websites have experienced fluctuations in search result rankings in the past, and we anticipate similar fluctuations in the future. Any reduction in the number of participants directed to our website would harm our business and operating results. Risks Related to this Securities Market and Ownership of Our Common Stock Our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly and may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Our quarterly results of operations, including the level of our revenue, profitability, cash flow and deferred revenue, may vary significantly in the future and period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful. Accordingly, the results of any one quarter should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, and as a result, may not fully reflect the underlying performance of our business. Fluctuation in quarterly results may negatively impact the value of our common stock. Factors that may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results include, without limitation, those listed below: • our ability to attract new customers; • the addition or loss of existing customers, including through acquisitions or consolidations; 26 Table of Contents • the timing of recognition of revenue; • the amount and timing of operating expenses related to the maintenance and expansion of our business, operations and infrastructure; • network outages or security breaches; • general economic, industry and market conditions; • customer renewal rates; • increases or decreases in the number of features and functionality of our services or pricing changes upon any renewals of customer agreements; • changes in estimates used in the calculation of our income tax provision; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; and • seasonal variations in sales of our solutions, which has historically been highest in the fourth quarter of a calendar year. If securities or industry analysts do not publish or cease publishing research or reports about us, our business or our market, or if they change their recommendations regarding our stock adversely, or if our actual results differ significantly from our guidance, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock will be influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts may publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If any of the analysts who may cover us change their recommendation regarding our stock adversely, or provide more favorable relative recommendations about our competitors, our stock price would likely decline. If any analyst who may cover us were to cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which in turn could cause our stock price or trading volume to decline. In addition, from time to time, we may release earnings guidance or other forward-looking statements in our earnings releases, earnings conference calls or otherwise regarding our future performance that represent our management’s estimates as of the date of release. Some or all of the assumptions of any future guidance that we furnish may not materialize or may vary significantly from actual future results. Any failure to meet guidance or analysts’ expectations could have a material adverse effect on the trading price or volume of our stock. An active, liquid and orderly trading market for our common stock may not develop, the price of our stock may be volatile, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Prior to our initial listing of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on August 9, 2013 in connection with our IPO, there was no public market for shares of our common stock. We cannot assure you that an active trading market for our shares will continue to develop or be sustained. If an active market for our common stock does not continue to develop or is not sustained, it may be difficult to sell shares without depressing the market price for the shares or to sell your shares at all. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for technology companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Broad market and industry factors may seriously affect the market price of companies’ stock, including ours, regardless of actual operating performance. These fluctuations may be even more pronounced in the trading market for our stock shortly following our initial and secondary offerings. In addition, in the past, following periods of volatility in the overall market and the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities class action litigation has often been instituted against these companies. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our management’s attention and resources. We do not expect to declare any dividends in the foreseeable future. We do not anticipate declaring any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Consequently, investors may need to rely on sales of their common stock after price appreciation, which may never occur, as the only way to realize any future gains on their investment. Investors seeking cash dividends should not purchase our common stock. 27 Table of Contents A significant portion of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to drop significantly, even if our business is doing well. The market price of shares of our common stock could decline as a result of (i) substantial sales of our common stock (particularly sales by our directors, executive officers, employees and significant stockholders), (ii) a large number of shares of our common stock becoming available for sale or (iii) the perception in the market that holders of a large number of shares intend to sell their shares. Based on the total number of outstanding shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2013, we have 40,409,791 shares of common stock outstanding. Of this amount, 24,810,063 shares are currently subject to lock-up agreements signed in connection with our secondary offering, which was closed on January 23, 2014. These shares, subject to the provisions of Rule 144 or Rule 701, will be eligible for sale in the public market upon the expiration of lock-up agreements after April 16, 2014. Additionally, the holders of an aggregate of approximately 28,400,000 shares of our common stock will continue to have rights, subject to some conditions, to require us to file one or more registration statements covering their shares or to include their shares in registration statements that we may file for ourselves or other stockholders. If we were to register these shares for resale, they could be freely sold in the public market. If these additional shares are sold, or if it is perceived that they will be sold, in the public market, the trading price of our common stock could decline. Concentration of ownership of our common stock among our existing executive officers, directors and principal stockholders may prevent new investors from influencing significant corporate decisions. Our executive officers, directors and current beneficial owners of 5% or more of our common stock and their respective affiliates, in aggregate, beneficially own approximately 60% of our outstanding common stock assuming the underwriters do not exercise their right to purchase any additional shares. These persons, acting together, would be able to significantly influence all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election and removal of directors and any merger or other significant corporate transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could impair a takeover attempt. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws, and Delaware law contain provisions which could have the effect of rendering more difficult, delaying, or preventing an acquisition deemed undesirable by our board of directors. Our corporate governance documents include provisions: creating a classified board of directors whose members serve staggered three-year terms; authorizing “blank check” preferred stock, which could be issued by our board of directors without stockholder approval and may contain voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; limiting the ability of our stockholders to call and bring business before special meetings; requiring advance notice of stockholder proposals for business to be conducted at meetings of our stockholders and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for the conduct and scheduling of board of directors and stockholder meetings. These provisions, alone or together, could delay or prevent hostile takeovers and changes in control or changes in our management. As a Delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of Delaware law, including Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation law, which prevents some stockholders holding more than 15% of our outstanding common stock from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. Any provision of our certificate of incorporation, bylaws or Delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of our common stock, and could also adversely affect the market price of our common stock. 28 Table of Contents We will continue to incur significantly increased costs and devote substantial management time as a result of operating as a public company. As a public company, we incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company. For example, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and will be required to comply with the applicable requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as well as rules and regulations subsequently implemented by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Stock Exchange, including the establishment and maintenance of effective disclosure and financial controls and changes in corporate governance practices. We expect that compliance with these requirements will increase our legal and financial compliance costs and will make some activities more time consuming and costly. In addition, our management and other personnel devote substantial time to our public company requirements, which diverts attention from operational and other business matters. In particular, we expect to incur significant expenses and devote substantial management effort toward ensuring compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will increase when we are no longer an “emerging growth company,” as defined by the JOBS Act. We will need to hire additional accounting and financial staff with appropriate public company experience and technical accounting knowledge and maintain an internal audit function. We cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur as a result of becoming a public company or the timing of such costs. As a public company, it is more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance on the terms that we would like as compared to prior periods when we were a privately-held company. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified people to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are an “emerging growth company,” and any decision on our part to comply only with certain reduced reporting and disclosure requirements applicable to emerging growth companies could make our common stock less attractive to investors. We are an “emerging growth company,” as defined in the JOBS Act, and, for as long as we continue to be an “emerging growth company,” we may choose to take advantage of exemptions from various reporting requirements applicable to other public companies but not to “emerging growth companies,” including, but not limited to, not being required to have our independent registered public accounting firm audit our internal controls over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, reduced disclosure obligations regarding executive compensation in our periodic reports and proxy statements, and exemptions from the requirements of holding a nonbinding advisory vote on executive compensation and stockholder approval of any golden parachute payments not previously approved. We could be an “emerging growth company” for up to five years following the completion of our initial public offering, although, if we have more than $1.0 billion in annual revenue, if the market value of our common stock that is held by non-affiliates exceeds $700 million as of June 30 of any year, or we issue more than $1.0 billion of non-convertible debt over a three-year period before the end of that five-year period, we would cease to be an “emerging growth company” as of the following December 31. We cannot predict if investors will find our common stock less attractive if we choose to rely on these exemptions. If some investors find our common stock less attractive as a result of any choices to reduce future disclosure, there may be a less active trading market for our common stock and our stock price may be more volatile. Under the JOBS Act, emerging growth companies can delay adopting new or revised accounting standards until such time as those standards apply to private companies. We have irrevocably elected not to avail ourselves of this exemption from new or revised accounting standards, and, therefore, we will be subject to the same new or revised accounting standards as other public companies that are not emerging growth companies. We may invest or spend the proceeds from our recent initial and secondary public offerings in ways with which you may not agree or in ways which may not yield a return. Our management will have considerable discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our initial and secondary public offerings, and you will not have the opportunity, as a stockholder, to assess whether the proceeds are being used appropriately. The net proceeds may be invested with a view towards long-term benefits for our stockholders and this may not increase our operating results or market value. Until the net proceeds are used, they may be placed in investments that do not produce significant income or that may lose value. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 