D. Risk factors Risk relating to our business and industry Our results of operations are subject to cyclicality and volatility affecting both our raw material price and our selling prices. Our business is largely dependent on the cost and supply of corn, soy meal, soybeans, hogs, cattle, milk and other raw materials, as well as the selling prices of our poultry, pork, beef and dairy products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand and other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include, among others, fluctuations in local and global poultry, hog, cattle and milk production levels, environmental and conservation regulations, economic conditions, weather, animal and crop diseases, cost of international freight and exchange rate fluctuations. Our industry, both in Brazil and abroad, is also characterized by cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by over-production, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. We are not able to mitigate these risks by entering into long-term contracts with our customers and most of our suppliers because such contracts are not customary in our industry. Our financial performance is affected by domestic and international freight costs, which are vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of oil. We may not be successful in addressing the effects of cyclicality and volatility on costs and expenses or the pricing of our products and, as a result, our overall financial performance may be adversely affected. Health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by contamination or food spoilage, evolving nutritional and health-related concerns, consumer product liability claims, product tampering, the possible unavailability and expense of liability insurance and the potential cost and disruption of a product recall. Any actual or perceived health risks associated with our products, including any adverse publicity concerning these risks, could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Even if our own products are not affected by contamination, our industry may face adverse publicity if the products of other producers become contaminated, which could result in reduced consumer demand for our products in the affected category. We maintain systems designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the production process (including the production of poultry, hogs, cattle and dairy products). However, our systems for compliance with governmental 6 regulations may not be fully effective in mitigating risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our poultry business in Brazilian and export markets could be negatively affected by avian influenza Chicken and other birds in some countries, particularly in Asia but also in Europe and Africa, have become infected by highly pathogenic avian influenza (the H5N1 virus). In a small number of cases, the avian influenza has been transmitted from birds to infect humans, resulting in illness and, on occasion, death. Accordingly, health authorities in many countries have taken steps to prevent outbreaks of this viral disease, including destruction of afflicted poultry flocks. Since the beginning of 2003, there have been over 373 confirmed human cases of avian influenza and over 236 deaths, according to the World Health Organization, with an increased number of deaths each year since 2003. Various countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa reported human cases in 2006 and 2007, and several countries in Europe reported cases of avian influenza in birds. For example, Indonesia became the focus of international attention when the largest cluster of human H5N1 virus cases so far was identified. The H5N1 virus is considered firmly entrenched in poultry throughout much of Indonesia, and this widespread presence has resulted in a significant number of human cases. In 2007, Indonesia has reported more than 42 cases with 37 deaths, according to the World Health Organization. More recently, the World Organization for Animal Health and the Food and Agriculture Organization received information about the reoccurrence of H5N1 avian influenza in Thailand, the world’s fourth-biggest poultry exporter, and cases of avian influenza (H7N3) have been reported in Canada. To date, Brazil has not had a documented case of avian influenza, although there are concerns that an outbreak of avian influenza may occur in the country in the future. Any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil could lead to required destruction of our poultry flocks, which would result in decreased sales of poultry by us, prevent recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing such poultry, and result in additional expense for the disposal of destroyed poultry. In addition, any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil would likely lead to immediate restrictions on the export of some of our products to key export markets. Preventive actions adopted by Brazilian authorities, if any, may not be effective in precluding the spread of avian influenza within Brazil. Whether or not an outbreak of avian influenza occurs in Brazil, further outbreaks of avian influenza anywhere in the world could have a negative impact on the consumption of poultry in our key export markets or in Brazil, and a significant outbreak would negatively affect our net sales and overall financial performance. Any outbreak of avian influenza could lead to the imposition of costly preventive controls on poultry imports in our export markets. Accordingly, any spread of avian influenza, or increasing concerns about this disease, may have a material and adverse effect on our company. Raising animals and meat processing involve animal health and disease control risks, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve raising poultry and hogs and processing meat from poultry, hogs and cattle, as well as the purchase of milk and the sale of milk and dairy products, which require us to maintain animal health and control disease. We could be required to destroy animals or suspend the sale of some of our products to customers in Brazil and abroad in the event of an outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as (1) in the case of poultry, avian influenza (discussed above) and Newcastle disease, (2) in the case of hogs, cattle and certain other animals, foot-and-mouth disease, classic swine fever and “blue ear” disease, and (3) in the case of cattle, foot-and-mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, known as “mad cow disease.” Destruction of poultry, hogs or other animals would preclude recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing these animals as well as result in additional expense for the disposal of such animals. In 2005, foot-and-mouth disease cases in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Paraná affected only cattle, although hogs can also be contaminated. In addition, although Brazilian cattle is generally grass-fed and at less risk of contracting mad cow disease than cattle raised in some other countries, increases in Brazilian cattle production could lead to the use of cattle feed containing animal by-products that could heighten the risk of an outbreak of mad cow disease. Outbreaks, or fears of outbreaks, of any of these or other animal diseases may lead to cancellation of orders by our customers and, particularly if the disease has the potential to affect humans, create adverse publicity that may have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for our products. Moreover, outbreaks of animal disease in Brazil may result in foreign governmental action to close export markets to some or all of our products, relating to some or all of our regions. For example, due to foot-and-mouth disease cases affecting cattle in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Paraná, certain major foreign markets, including Russia (which has been the largest importer of Brazilian pork) banned imports of pork from the entire country in November 2005. Russia partially lifted this ban in the second quarter of 2006 for pork products from the State of Rio Grande do Sul and it has announced that it will reopen its 7 market to imports of Brazilian pork and beef products from eight additional Brazilian states effective in December 2007. Any future outbreaks of animal diseases could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. More stringent trade barriers in key export markets may negatively affect our results of operations. Because of the growing market share of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef products in the international markets, Brazilian exporters are increasingly being affected by measures taken by importing countries to protect local producers. The competitiveness of Brazilian companies has led certain countries to establish trade barriers to limit the access of Brazilian companies to their markets. Some countries, such as Russia, impose quotas of Brazilian pork and poultry products, and delays in allocating these quotas or changes in laws or policies regarding these quotas can adversely affect our exports. For example, a delay in allocating quotas for poultry products in Russia in the first half of 2006 resulted in a significant decline in our sales volumes of poultry products to Russia during that period. The Ukraine has also restricted pork imports for the retail market, on which higher taxes are levied, until September 2007. The European Union charges protective tariffs designed to mitigate the effects of Brazil’s lower production costs on local European producers. Developed countries also sometimes use direct and indirect subsidies to enhance the competitiveness of their producers in other markets. For example, French producers receive subsidies for their sales of poultry to countries such as Saudi Arabia, a major importer of poultry products. Trade barriers are sometimes applied indirectly to other parties that are crucial to the export of products. For example, Chinese importers have, to date, been unable to obtain required licenses to permit them to receive our exports. In addition, local producers in a specific market sometimes exert political pressure on their governments not to allow foreign producers’ companies to export to their market. Any of the above restrictions can substantially affect our export volumes and, consequently, our export sales and financial performance. If new trade barriers arise in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business, financial condition and results of operations might be adversely affected. We face competition from Brazilian and foreign producers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We face strong competition from other Brazilian producers in our domestic markets and from Brazilian and foreign producers in the export markets in which we sell our products. In Brazil, our primary competitor for specialty meats, frozen processed meats and other frozen foods is Sadia S.A., or “Sadia,” another vertically integrated Brazilian producer. The Brazilian market for whole poultry and poultry and pork cuts is highly fragmented, and we face competition from small producers, some of which operate in the informal economy and are able to offer lower prices by meeting lower quality standards. This competition from small producers is a primary reason why we sell a majority of our whole chickens and poultry and pork cuts in the export markets and is a barrier to expanding our sales of those products in the domestic market. In our export markets, we compete with other major vertically integrated Brazilian producers like Sadia that have the ability to produce quality products at low cost, as well as with foreign producers. In the Brazilian milk and dairy products markets, our main competitors are Nestlé Brasil Ltda., Danone Ltda., Parmalat Brasil S.A. – Indústria de Alimentos and Itambé Ltda. To varying degrees, our competitors may have strengths in specific product lines and regions as well as greater financial resources. In addition, our poultry and pork cuts, in particular, are highly price-competitive and sensitive to product substitution. Even if we remain a low-cost producer, customers may seek to diversify their sources of supply by purchasing a portion of the products they need from producers in other countries, as some of our customers in key export markets have begun to do. We expect that we will continue to face strong competition in all of our markets and anticipate that existing or new competitors may broaden their product lines and extend their geographic scope. Any failure by us to respond to product, pricing and other moves by competitors may negatively affect our financial performance. Increased regulation of food safety could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to regular Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, governmental inspections and extensive regulation in the food safety area, including governmental food processing controls. Changes in government regulations relating to food safety could require us to make additional investments or incur other costs to meet the necessary specifications for our products. Our products are often inspected by foreign food safety officials, and any failure to pass those inspections can require us to return all or part of a shipment to Brazil, destroy all or part of a shipment or incur costs because of delays 8 in delivering products to our customers. Any tightening of food safety regulations could result in increased costs and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. Export sales account for a significant portion of our net sales, representing 46.4% of our total net sales in 2006 and 47.5% in 2007. Our major export markets include the European Union, the Middle East (particularly, Saudi Arabia), and the Far East (particularly, Japan and Russia), where we are subject to many of the same risks described below in relation to Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Our future ability to conduct business in export markets could be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as the following: · exchange rate fluctuations; · deterioration in economic conditions; · imposition of increased tariffs, anti-dumping duties or other trade barriers; · strikes or other events affecting ports and other transport facilities; · compliance with differing foreign legal and regulatory regimes; and · sabotage affecting our products. We have been from time to time affected by strikes of port employees or customs agents, sanitary inspection agents and other government agents at the Brazilian ports from which we export our products. In each of 2005 and the third quarter of 2007, for example, Brazilian federal government sanitary inspectors went on strike for approximately one month. A widespread or protracted strike in the future could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require increasing expenditures for compliance. We, like other Brazilian food producers, are subject to extensive Brazilian federal, state and local environmental laws, regulations, authorizations and licenses concerning, among other things, the handling and disposal of wastes, and discharges of pollutants into the water and soil, which affect our business. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations or any lack of authorizations or licenses could result in administrative and criminal penalties, such as fines, cancellation of authorizations or revocation of licenses, in addition to negative publicity and liability for remediation or for environmental damages. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Because of the possibility of unanticipated regulatory measures or other developments, particularly as environmental laws become more stringent in Brazil, the amount and timing of future expenditures required to maintain compliance could increase from current levels and could adversely affect the availability of funds for capital expenditures and other purposes. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations could result in increased costs and expenses. Acquisitions may divert management resources or prove to be disruptive to our company. We regularly review and pursue opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. We have completed in recent years, and now have pending, a number of acquisitions as described under “Business—Recent Developments.” Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, increased compensation expenses for newly hired employees, assumption of unknown liabilities and potential disputes with the sellers. We could also experience financial or other challenges if any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future give rise to liabilities or problems of which we are not aware. Acquisitions outside of Brazil may present additional difficulties, such as compliance with foreign legal and regulatory systems and integration of personnel to different managerial practices and would increase our exposure to risks associated with international operations. We will continue to be significantly influenced by a group of shareholders that control a significant percentage of our common shares. 9 Currently, six pension funds hold a significant percentage of our common shares and, acting together pursuant to a shareholders’ voting agreement, have the ability to significantly influence our decisions. The pension funds owned 37.80% of our total capital on May 31, 2008. They are parties to a shareholders’ voting agreement that sets forth voting arrangements with respect to, among other matters, (1) the election of officers and members of our board of directors and of the fiscal council and (2) the matters set forth in Article 136 of the Brazilian Corporation Law, including decisions relating to dividends, corporate restructurings, our corporate purpose and other matters. As a result, these shareholders retain and will continue to retain the power to influence significantly the outcome of important corporate decisions or matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with, or differ from, the interests of other holders of our common shares. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings may reduce our liquidity and negatively affect us. We are defendants in civil, labor and tax proceedings and are also subject to consent agreements (termo de ajustamento de conduta). We cannot assure you that we will obtain favorable decisions in these proceedings or that our reserves will be sufficient to cover potential liabilities resulting from unfavorable decisions. Even in cases in which we have recorded reserves on our balance sheet to cover potential losses, any obligation to pay amounts in these proceedings would have an effect on our cash position. Unfavorable decisions in these proceedings may, therefore, reduce our liquidity and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Eleva is subject to civil, labor and tax proceedings. We depend on members of our senior management and on our ability to recruit and retain qualified professionals to implement our strategy. We depend on members of our senior management and other qualified professionals to implement our business strategies. Efforts to recruit and retain professionals may result in significant additional expenses, which could adversely affect us. In addition, the loss of key professionals may adversely affect our ability to implement our strategy. We may be affected by the closing of certain markets. The impact of the EU ban of the Brazilian beef affects basically the sales of the fresh prime cuts (rump & loins) and some frozen hindquarter cuts. The EU is one of the most important markets for Brazil due to the price levels obtained in this market. Perdigão in order to reduce its dependence on the European market is working on the approval of new markets and keeping and expanding the exports to the actual markets. As part of Company’s strategy, Perdigão will enter in the cooked frozen beef market to reduce the sanitary risks and add value to the products. Risks Relating to the Acquisition of Eleva We may not successfully integrate Eleva into our businesses. The integration of Eleva into our existing businesses may result in operational, commercial, financial, contractual and technological challenges. The Eleva acquisition may also result in diversion of management attention from operation and development of our existing businesses. As a result, we may not be able to integrate successfully Eleva’s operations into our businesses or to obtain expected synergies and economies of scale from the acquisition of Eleva, which may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may encounter unidentified contingencies relating to Eleva, for which we may be responsible as successors, which could also adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. We may incur additional costs in relation to Eleva’s internal controls and information systems. We are currently subject to Section 404 of the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related rules of the SEC, which require, among other things, our management to assess annually the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and our independent registered public accounting firm to issue a report on the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting for inclusion in our annual report on Form 20-F. However, because Eleva is not a public company in the United States, it is not currently subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and we continue to evaluate the quality of Eleva’s internal controls. If we identify any deficiencies in Eleva’s internal controls during the course of the integration process, we may be required to spend time and money to remedy them. We will need to correct any such deficiencies in a timely manner in order to conclude that the internal controls of our company are effective. In addition, Eleva uses information technology systems different from ours, and was in the process of migrating to another platform, also different from ours. Whether we decide to continue this migration process or to 10 adopt a common information technology system for both companies, we may incur additional costs and may encounter integration problems, additional training requirements and operating delays. Unfavorable outcomes in legal proceedings involving Eleva may negatively affect Eleva. Eleva is a defendant in legal and administrative proceedings relating to civil, tax and labor matters, and is also subject to consent agreements (termos de ajustamento de conduta). We cannot assure you that Eleva will obtain favorable decisions in these proceedings or that its reserves will be sufficient to cover potential liabilities resulting from unfavorable decisions. Unfavorable decisions in these proceedings may, therefore, adversely affect Eleva. Our business could be adversely affected if Eleva does not obtain renewals of its environmental licenses. Some of Eleva’s units do not possess environmental licenses required to undertake their business or are operating with expired licenses. Failure to have required environmental licenses can result in administrative or criminal penalties. We can assure you that all necessary environmental licenses are being renewed or obtained. If Eleva were to incur penalties or were unable to renew or obtain required environmental licenses, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has been characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting of wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, as well as the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs, may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: · exchange rate movements; · exchange control policies; · expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in GDP; · inflation; · tax policies; · other economic political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil; · interest rates; · energy shortages; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; and · social and political instability. Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations and the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs. Historically, Brazil has experienced high rates of inflation. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado) or “IGP-M”, a general price inflation index, the inflation rates in Brazil were 10.4% in 2001, 25.3% in 2002, 8.7% in 2003, 12.4% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005, 3.8% in 2006 and 7,75% in 2007. In addition, according to the National Extended Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor 11 Ampliado), or “IPCA”, published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística) or “IBGE”, the Brazilian price inflation rates were 7.7% in 2001, 12.5% in 2002, 9.3% in 2003, 7.6% in 2004, 5.7% in 2005 3.1% in 2006 and 4,5% in 2007. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting availability of credit and reducing economic growth. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in future periods. Periods of higher inflation may slow the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products in Brazil and decreased net sales. Inflation also is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing our debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. Inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can, in addition, lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets. Any decline in our net sales or net income and any deterioration in our financial condition would also likely lead to a decline in the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. 12 Exchange rate movements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian currency has been devalued frequently over the past four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. For example, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, on average, by 22.3% in 2001, 19.6% in 2002 and 4.8% in 2003. In 2004, 2005, 2006 and 2007 the real appreciated 5.0%, 20.2%, 11.8% and 9.2%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. Continuing appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Any such appreciation could reduce the competitiveness of our exports and adversely affect our net sales and our cash flows from exports. Devaluation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring deflationary government policies. In addition, the prices of soy meal and soybeans, important ingredients of our animal feedstock, are closely linked to the U.S. dollar, and many of the mineral nutrients added to our feedstock must be purchased in U.S. dollars. The price of corn, another important ingredient of our feedstock, is also linked to the U.S. dollar to a lesser degree. In addition to feedstock ingredients, we purchase sausage casings, breeder eggs, packaging and other raw materials, as well as equipment for use in our production facilities, from suppliers located outside Brazil whom we must pay in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. When the real depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the cost in reais of our U.S. dollar-linked raw materials and equipment increases, and these increases could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We had total foreign currency-denominated debt obligations in an aggregate amount of R$1,645.8 million at December 31, 2007, representing 75.1% of our total consolidated indebtedness at that date. A significant portion of our consolidated debt is denominated in foreign currencies because export credit facilities available in foreign currencies often have attractive financing conditions and costs compared to other financing sources. However, these foreign-currency denominated credit facilities also expose us to a greater degree of foreign exchange risk. Although we manage a portion of our exchange rate risk through foreign currency swaps and investments, and cash flows from export sales are in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, our foreign currency debt obligations are not completely hedged. At December 31, 2007, our consolidated exchange rate exposure was U.S.$308.7 million. A significant depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar or other currencies could increase the debt service requirements of our foreign currency-denominated obligations. Fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business and the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs. The Central Bank establishes the basic interest rate target for the Brazilian financial system by reference to the level of economic growth of the Brazilian economy, the level of inflation and other economic indicators. From February to July 17, 2002, the Central Bank reduced the basic interest rate from 19% to 18%. From October 2002 to February 2003, the Central Bank increased the basic interest rate by 8.5 percentage points, to 26.5% on February 19, 2003. The basic interest rate continued to increase until June 2003 when the Central Bank started to decrease it. Subsequently, the basic interest rate has been subject to further fluctuations, and, in December 2007, the basic interest rate was 11.25%. At December 31, 2007, approximately 72.1% of our total liabilities from indebtedness and derivative instruments of R$2,509.0 million was either (1) denominated in (or swapped into) reais and bear interest based on Brazilian floating interest rates, such as the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo), or “TJLP”, the interest rate used in our financing agreements with Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social—BNDES), or “BNDES”, and the Interbank Deposit Certificate Rate (Certificado de Depositário Interbancário), or “CDI” rate, an interbank certificate of deposit rate that applies to our foreign currency swaps and some of our other real-denominated indebtedness, or (2) dollar-denominated and bear interest based on LIBOR. Any increase in the CDI, TJLP or LIBOR rates may have an adverse impact on our financial expenses and our results of operations. 13 Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, our profitability. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax regimes that may increase our and our customers’ tax burdens. These changes include modifications in the rate of assessments and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. In April 2003, the Brazilian government presented a tax reform proposal, which was mainly designed to simplify tax assessments, to avoid internal disputes within and between the Brazilian states and municipalities, and to redistribute tax revenues. The tax reform proposal provided for changes in the rules governing the federal Social Integration Program (Programa de Integração Social), or “PIS”, the federal Contribution for Social Security Financing (Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade Social - COFINS), or “COFINS”, the federal Tax on Bank Account Transactions (Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação ou Transmissão de Valores e de Créditos e Direitos de Natureza Financeira), or “CPMF”, the state Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Services (Imposto Sobre a Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços), or “ICMS”, and some other taxes. The effects of these proposed tax reform measures and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. However, some of these measures, if enacted, may result in increases in our overall tax burden, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may adversely affect your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, or the proceeds of any sale of, our common shares and the ADSs. Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose temporary restrictions on conversions of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on remittances to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil, whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to expect a pending serious imbalance. The Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The Brazilian government may take similar measures in the future. Any imposition of restrictions on conversions and remittances could hinder or prevent holders of our common shares or the ADSs from converting into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies and remitting abroad dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale in Brazil of our common shares. Exchange controls could also prevent us from making payments on our U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations and hinder our ability to access the international capital markets. As a result, exchange controls restrictions could reduce the market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and the ADSs Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to our common shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our common shares will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from the ADR depositary following our notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our common shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the common shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. 14 Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and our shareholders may have less extensive rights. Holders of ADSs will not be direct shareholders of our company and will be unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of ADSs surrenders its ADSs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares and the ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than for a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are a corporation (sociedade anônima) organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and executive officers and our independent public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. Most of the assets of our company and of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation.. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will be unable to exercise the preemptive rights relating to our common shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act”, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive rights or to take any other action to make preemptive rights available to holders of ADSs. We may decide, in our discretion, not to file any such registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement or if we and the ADR depositary decide not to make preemptive rights available to holders of ADSs, those holders may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary, or if they are not sold, their preemptive rights will be allowed to lapse. Non-Brazilian holders of our common shares might be unable to exercise preemptive rights and tag-along rights with respect to common shares. U.S. holders of our common shares may not be able to exercise preemptive rights and tag-along rights relating to our common shares, absent registration, qualification or exemption under the securities laws of such holders’ home jurisdictions. For example, a U.S. holder may not be able to exercise such rights, unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to our common shares relating to these rights, and we cannot assure you that we will file any such registration statement. Unless we file a registration statement or an exemption from registration is available, a holder may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of his or her preemptive rights and tag along rights or, if these rights cannot be sold, they will lapse and the holder will receive no value for them. 15 Provisions in our by-laws may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change our control or management. Our by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of our company or removal of our directors. Subject to limited exceptions, these provisions require any shareholder that acquires shares representing 20% or more of our share capital to, within 30 days from the date of such acquisition, commence a tender offer with respect to all of our share capital for a price per share equivalent to the greatest of: (1) the economic value of our company, which shall be equivalent to the arithmetic average of the mean points of the economic value ranges obtained in two appraisal reports prepared based on the discounted cash flow method, as long as the variation between these mean points shall not exceed 10%, in which case the economic value shall be determined through arbitration; (2) 135% of the issue price of the shares issued in any capital increase through a public offering that takes place within the 24-month period before the date on which the public offering shall become mandatory, duly adjusted in accordance with the IPCA variation up to the date of payment; and (3) 135% of the unit price of our shares within the 30-day period before the public offering. These provisions of our by-laws may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might otherwise be in the best interests of our shareholders. Holders of ADSs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADSs. Historically, any capital gain realized on a sale or other disposition of ADSs between non-Brazilian holders outside Brazil was not subject to Brazilian income tax. However, a December 2003 Brazilian law (Law No. 10,833) provides that “the acquirer, individual or legal entity resident or domiciled in Brazil, or the acquirer’s attorney-in-fact, when such acquirer is resident or domiciled abroad, shall be responsible for the retention and payment of the income tax applicable to capital gains earned by the individual or legal entity resident or domiciled abroad who disposes of property located in Brazil”. The Brazilian tax authorities have recently issued a normative instruction confirming that they intend to assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents whose assets are located in Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our common shares, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether Brazilian tax authorities will attempt to tax any capital gains arising from the sale or other disposition of the ADSs, even when the transaction is consummated outside Brazil between non-Brazilian residents. Brazilian taxes may apply to a gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of shares to another non-Brazilian holder. The gain realized by a non-Brazilian holder on the disposition of shares to another non-Brazilian holder (other than a disposition of shares held pursuant to CMN Resolution No. 2,689, as amended and effected on the São Paulo Stock Exchange) is generally viewed as being subject to taxation in Brazil. Pursuant to Law No. 10,833/03, Brazilian tax authorities may assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents in transactions involving assets that are located in Brazil. In this case, the tax rate applicable on the gain would be 15% (or 25% in the case of a non-Brazilian holder organized under the laws of or a resident of a tax haven). For additional discussion of the tax consequences of a disposition of our common shares, see “Taxation.” The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The São Paulo Stock Exchange had a total market capitalization of R$2,477.6 billion, or U.S.$1,398.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and an average daily trading volume of U.S.$2,554.8 million for 2007. By contrast, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of U.S$15.65 trillion at December 31, 2007 (U.S. domestic listed companies) and an average daily trading volume of U.S$119.1 billion for 2007. The Brazilian securities markets are also characterized by considerable share concentration. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 54.7% of the aggregate market capitalization of the São Paulo Stock Exchange at December 31, 2007. In addition, the ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 45.8% of all shares traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange in 2007. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of the ADSs to sell common shares underlying ADSs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market prices of these securities. 16 Developments and the perception of risks in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially other Latin American countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or adverse economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times resulted in significant outflows of funds from, and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in, Brazil. For example, in 2001, after a prolonged recession, followed by political instability, Argentina announced that it would no longer continue to service its public debt. The economic crisis in Argentina negatively affected, for several years, investors’ perceptions of Brazilian securities. Economic or political crises in Latin America or other emerging markets may significantly affect perceptions of the risk inherent in investing in the region, including Brazil. The Brazilian economy also is affected by international economic and market conditions generally, especially economic and market conditions in the United States. Share prices on the São Paulo Stock Exchange, for example, have historically been sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates as well as movements of the major U.S. stocks indexes. Developments in other countries and securities markets could adversely affect the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. We may raise funding in the future through offerings of our common shares, which may affect the market price of our common shares and dilute your holdings in our capital stock. We may need to obtain additional funding in the future, and may decide to do so through public or private offerings of our common shares or of securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, our common shares. Future public offerings of these securities may negatively affect the market price of our common shares and dilute your holdings in our capital stock. 