ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. The risks that are discussed below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows could be negatively affected. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by several factors, some of which we cannot predict or control, that could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Several factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: • economic downturns in the significant end markets that we serve; • product obsolescence, technological changes that unfavorably alter the value / cost proposition of our products and services; • competition from existing and unforeseen polymer and non-polymer based products; • declines in general economic conditions or reductions in industrial production growth rates, both domestically and globally, which could impact our customers ability to pay amounts owed to us; • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell our products and services in specific markets; and • inability to obtain raw materials or supply products to customers due to factors such as supplier work stoppages, supply shortages, plant outages or regulatory changes that may limit or prohibit overland transportation of certain hazardous materials and exogenous factors, like severe weather. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, which would adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Our manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. Our manufacturing operations are subject to the usual hazards and risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to: • explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; • mechanical failure resulting in protracted or short duration unscheduled downtime; 8 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents • regulatory changes that affect or limit the transportation of raw materials; • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • interruptions and environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace; and • storage tank leaks or other issues resulting from remedial activities. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment and environmental damage. We are subject to present and potential future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards that are incident to our business. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets, and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our operations on and ownership of real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if they are released into the environment or workplace. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of these activities involving raw materials, finished products and wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations of these laws. Also, federal and state environmental statutes impose strict, and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the disposal site, as well as on the owners and operators of these sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party in connection with certain sites. We may incur substantial costs for some of these sites. It is possible that we will be identified as a potentially responsible party at more sites in the future, which could result in our being assessed substantial investigation or cleanup costs. We may also incur additional costs and liabilities as a result of increasingly strict environmental, safety and health laws, regulations and related enforcement policies, including those that restrict the use of lead and phthalates under the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances (RoHS) and the Consumer Product Safety Information Act of 2008. The European business community has adopted REACH, a legislative act to cover Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. The goal of this legislation, which became effective in June 2007, is to minimize risk to human health and to the environment. We have a global team of experts to provide our customers with compliance solutions to adapt to these regulations. As these regulations evolve, we will endeavor to remain in compliance with REACH. We also conduct investigations and remediation at some of our active and inactive facilities, and have assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities based on operations at sites formerly owned or operated by our predecessors or by us. We accrue costs for environmental matters that have been identified when it is probable that these costs will be required and when they can be reasonably estimated. However, accruals for estimated costs, including, among other things, the ranges associated with our accruals for future environmental compliance and remediation, may be too low or we may not be able to quantify the potential costs. We may be subject to additional environmental liabilities or potential liabilities that have not been identified. We expect that we will continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that compliance with these laws and regulations will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are inherently affected by risk. As noted above in Item 1. “Business,” we have extensive operations outside of the United States. Revenue from these operations (principally from Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia) was 37% in 2008, 37% in 2007 and 34% in 2006 of our total revenue during these periods. Long-lived assets of our foreign operations represented 31% in 2008, 34% in 2007 and 32% in 2006 of our total long-lived assets. International operations are subject to risks, which include, but are not limited to, the following: • changes in local government regulations and policies, including, but not limited to foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy; repatriation of earnings; expropriation of property; duty or tariff restrictions; investment limitations; and tax policies; 9 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents • political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; • legislation that regulates the use of chemicals; • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA); • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; and • other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted. In addition, we could be adversely affected by violations of the FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The FCPA and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws. We operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. We cannot assure you that our internal controls and procedures always will protect us from the reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. If we are found to be liable for FCPA violations (either due to our own acts or our inadvertence or due to the acts or inadvertence of others), we could suffer from criminal or civil penalties or other sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Any of these risks could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or reducing the prices at which we can sell our products, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations that we may be subject to. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We engage in acquisitions and joint ventures, and may encounter unexpected difficulties identifying, pricing or integrating those businesses. Attainment of our strategic plan objectives may require, in part, strategic acquisitions or joint ventures intended to complement or expand our businesses globally or add product technology that accelerates our specialization strategy, or both. Success will depend on our ability to identify, price and complete these transactions or arrangements, and integrate the businesses acquired in these transactions as well as develop satisfactory working arrangements with our strategic partners in the joint ventures. Unexpected difficulties in completing and integrating acquisitions with our existing operations and in managing strategic investments could occur. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits initially anticipated, which could adversely affect our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by the results of operations of SunBelt. SunBelt is our largest equity investment. The earnings of this partnership may be significantly affected by changes in the commodity cycle for hydrocarbon feedstocks and for chlor-alkali products. If the profitability of SunBelt is adversely affected, we may receive less cash distributions from the partnership or we may be required to make cash contributions to the partnership, either of which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw material costs, and other external factors beyond our control, as well as downturns in the home repair and remodeling and new home sectors of the economy, can cause wide fluctuations in our margins. The cost of our natural gas, electricity, fuel and raw materials, and other costs, may not correlate with changes in the prices we receive for our products, either in the direction of the price change or in absolute magnitude. Natural gas and raw materials costs represent a substantial part of our manufacturing costs, and energy costs, in particular electricity and fuel, represent a component of the costs to manufacture building products. Most of the raw materials we use are commodities and the price of each can fluctuate widely for a variety of reasons, including changes in availability because of major capacity additions or reductions or significant facility operating problems. Other external factors beyond our control can cause volatility in raw materials prices, demand for our products, product prices, sales volumes and margins. These factors include general economic conditions, the level of business activity in the industries that use our products, competitors’ actions, international events and circumstances, and governmental regulation in the United States and abroad. These factors can also magnify the impact of economic cycles on our business. While we attempt to pass through price increases in energy costs and raw materials, we have been unsuccessful in doing so in some circumstances in the past and there can be no reassurance that we can do so in the future. Additionally, our products used in housing, transportation and building and construction markets are impacted by changes in North American demand in these sectors, which may be significantly affected by changes in economic and other conditions such as gross domestic product levels, employment levels, demographic trends, legislative actions and consumer confidence. These factors can lower the demand for and pricing of our products, which could cause our net sales and net income to decrease. 10 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents We face competition from other polymer and chemical companies, which could adversely affect our sales, results of operations or cash flows. We actively compete with companies that produce the same or similar products, and in some instances with companies that produce different products that are designed for the same end uses. We encounter competition in price, delivery, service, performance, product innovation, product recognition and quality, depending on the product involved. We expect that our competitors will continue to develop and introduce new and enhanced products, which could cause a decline in the market acceptance of our products. In addition, our competitors could cause a reduction in the selling prices of some of our products as a result of intensified price competition. Competitive pressures can also result in the loss of major customers. An inability to compete successfully could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We may also experience increased competition from companies that offer products based on alternative technologies and processes that may be more competitive or better in price or performance, causing us to lose customers and result in a decline in our sales volume and earnings. Additionally, some of our customers may already be or may become large enough to justify developing in-house production capabilities. Any significant reduction in customer orders as a result of a shift to in-house production could adversely affect our sales and operating profits. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. We may experience operating problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, which could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our business depends upon good relations with our employees. We may experience difficulties in maintaining appropriate relations with unions and employees in certain locations. About 2% of our employees are represented by, or are in negotiations to be represented by, labor unions. In addition, problems or changes affecting employees in certain locations may affect relations with our employees at other locations. The risk of labor disputes, work stoppages or other disruptions in production could adversely affect us. If we cannot successfully negotiate or renegotiate collective bargaining agreements or if the negotiations take an excessive amount of time, there may be a heightened risk of a prolonged work stoppage. Any work stoppage could have a material adverse effect in the productivity and profitability of a manufacturing facility or in our operations as a whole. Adverse credit market conditions may significantly affect our access to capital, cost of capital and ability to meet liquidity needs. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the credit markets may adversely impact our ability to access credit already arranged and the availability and cost of credit to us in the future. These market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities and access the capital necessary to grow and maintain our business. Accordingly, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenors than we prefer or pay unattractive interest rates, which could increase our interest expense, decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility. There can be no assurances that government responses to the disruptions in the financial markets will stabilize the markets or increase liquidity and the availability of credit. Longer term disruptions in the capital and credit markets as a result of uncertainty, changing or increased regulation, reduced alternatives or failures of significant financial institutions could adversely affect our access to liquidity needed for our business. Any disruption could require us to take measures to conserve cash until the markets stabilize or until alternative credit arrangements or other funding for our business needs can be arranged. Such measures could include deferring capital expenditures and reducing or eliminating future share repurchases or other discretionary uses of cash. Overall, our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be materially adversely affected by disruptions in the credit markets. The current global financial crisis may have significant effects on our customers and suppliers that would result in material adverse effects on our business and operating results. The current global financial crisis, which has included, among other things, significant reductions in available capital and liquidity from banks and other providers of credit, substantial reductions and fluctuations in equity and currency values worldwide, and concerns that the worldwide economy may enter into a prolonged recessionary period, may materially adversely affect our customers’ access to capital or willingness to spend capital on our products or their ability to pay for products that they will order or have already ordered from us. In addition, the current global financial crisis may materially adversely affect our suppliers’ access to capital and liquidity with which to maintain their inventories, production levels and product quality, which could cause them to raise prices or lower production levels. Also, availability under our receivable sales facility may be adversely impacted by credit quality and performance of our customer accounts receivable. The availability under the receivable sales facility is based on the amount of receivables that meet the eligibility criteria of the receivable sales facility. As receivable losses increase or credit quality deteriorates, the amount of eligible receivables declines and, in turn, lowers the availability under the facility. These potential effects of the current global financial crisis are difficult to forecast and mitigate. As a consequence, our operating results for a particular period are difficult to predict, and, therefore, 11 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents prior results are not necessarily indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing effects could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. We completed the annual impairment review required by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, as of October 1, 2008 and determined that there was no impairment. However, on February 5, 2009, our management determined that a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $170.0 million related to our Geon Compounds and Specialty Coatings businesses within the Performance Products and Solutions segment would be required in the fourth quarter of 2008. This charge is preliminary based on management’s best estimates. Management expects to revise this charge during the first quarter 2009 after completing a formal step-two test. As of December 31, 2008, after the impact of the $170.0 million impairment charge, we had goodwill remaining of $163.9 million. The future occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, a material negative change in relationships with significant customers, strategic decisions made in response to economic or competitive conditions, loss of key personnel or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, would require us to perform another valuation analysis, as required under FASB Statement No. 142, for some or all of our reporting units prior to the next required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in additional charges for goodwill, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Low investment performance by our pension plan assets may require us to increase our pension liability and expense, which may require us to fund a portion of our pension obligations and divert funds from other potential uses. We provide defined benefit pension plans to eligible employees. Our pension expense and our required contributions to our pension plans are directly affected by the value of plan assets, the projected rate of return on plan assets, the actual rate of return on plan assets and the actuarial assumptions we use to measure our defined benefit pension plan obligations, including the rate at which future obligations are discounted to a present value, or the discount rate. As of December 31, 2008, for pension accounting purposes, we assumed an 8.5% rate of return on pension assets. Lower investment performance of our pension plan assets resulting from a decline in the stock market could significantly increase the deficit position of our plans. Should the assets earn an average return less than 8.5% over time, it is likely that future pension expenses would increase. We establish the discount rate used to determine the present value of the projected and accumulated benefit obligation at the end of each year based upon the available market rates for high quality, fixed income investments. An increase in the discount rate would reduce the future pension expense and, conversely, a lower discount rate would raise the future pension expense. Based on current guidelines, assumptions and estimates, including stock market prices and interest rates, we anticipate that we will be required to make a cash contribution of approximately $10.6 million to our pension plans in 2009. We cannot predict whether changing market or economic conditions, regulatory changes or other factors will further increase our pension expense or funding obligations, diverting funds we would otherwise apply to other uses. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no outstanding or unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 12 POLYONE CORPORATION Table of Contents 