D. Risk factors Risk relating to our business and industry Our results of operations are subject to cyclicality and volatility affecting both our raw material price and our selling prices. Our financial performance is largely dependent on the cost and supply of corn, soy meal and soybeans, hogs and other raw materials, as well as the selling prices of our poultry, pork and beef products, all of which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand and other factors over which we have little or no control. These other factors include, among others, fluctuations in local and global poultry and hog production levels, environmental and conservation regulations, economic conditions, weather, animal and crop diseases, cost of international freight and exchange rate movements. Our industry, both in Brazil and abroad, also is characterized by cyclical periods of higher prices and profitability, followed by overproduction, leading to periods of lower prices and profitability. We are not able to mitigate these risks by entering into long-term contracts with our customers and most of our suppliers because such contracts are not customary in our industry. In addition, our financial performance is affected by domestic and international freight costs, which are vulnerable to fluctuations in the price of oil. We may not be successful in addressing the effects of cyclicality and volatility on costs and expenses or the pricing of our products and our overall financial performance. Health risks related to the food industry could adversely affect our ability to sell our products. We are subject to risks affecting the food industry generally, including risks posed by contamination or food spoilage, evolving nutritional and health-related concerns, consumer product liability claims, product tampering, the possible unavailability and expense of liability insurance and the potential cost and disruption of a 7 product recall. Any actual or perceived health risks associated with our products, including any adverse publicity concerning these risks, could also cause customers to lose confidence in the safety and quality of our products. Even if our own products are not affected by contamination, our industry may face adverse publicity if the products of other producers become contaminated, which could result in reduced consumer demand for our products in the affected category. We maintain systems designed to monitor food safety risks throughout all stages of the production process (including the production of poultry and hogs). However, our systems for compliance with governmental regulations may not be fully effective in mitigating risks related to food safety. Any product contamination could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Our poultry business in Brazilian and export markets could be negatively affected by avian influenza and Newcastle disease. Poultry and other birds in some countries, particularly in Asia but also in Europe and Africa, have become infected by highly pathogenic avian influenza (H5N1 virus). Accordingly, health authorities in many countries have taken steps to prevent outbreaks of this viral disease, including destruction of afflicted poultry flocks. Since the beginning of 2003, there have been over 310 confirmed human cases of avian influenza and over 189 deaths, according to the World Health Organization, with an increased number of deaths in each year since 2003. Human cases were reported in various countries in Asia, the Middle East and Africa in 2006, and several countries in Europe reported cases of avian influenza in birds. To date, Brazil has not had a documented case of avian influenza, although there are concerns that an outbreak of avian influenza may occur in Brazil in the future. Any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil could lead to required destruction of our poultry flocks, which would result in decreased sales of poultry by us, prevent recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing such poultry, and result in additional expense for the disposal of destroyed poultry. In addition, any outbreak of avian influenza in Brazil would likely lead to immediate restrictions on the export of some of our products to key export markets. Preventive actions adopted by Brazilian authorities, if any, may not be effective in precluding the spread of avian influenza within Brazil. Whether or not an outbreak of avian influenza occurs in Brazil, further outbreaks of avian influenza anywhere in the world could have a negative impact on the consumption of poultry in our key export markets or in Brazil, and a significant outbreak would negatively affect our net sales and overall financial performance. Any outbreak of avian influenza could lead to the imposition of costly preventive controls on poultry imports in our export markets. Accordingly, any spread of avian influenza, or increasing concerns about this disease, may have a material and adverse effect on our company. In July 2006, an outbreak of Newcastle disease occurred in the City of Vale Real, in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, affecting local poultry producers. As a result, a number of countries imposed bans on poultry imports from producers located within a specified distance of the outbreak, which does not currently include us. Newcastle disease, which is caused by a low pathogenic virus, does not affect humans, even in the case of direct contact with or consumption of diseased poultry. The principal consequences of outbreaks of Newcastle disease for our industry is the risk of imposition of bans on imports by foreign customers. If an outbreak of Newcastle disease occurs at or close to one of our poultry facilities, we may be prohibited from exporting poultry products from that facility to our export clients, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Raising animals and meat processing involve animal health and disease control risks, which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. Our operations involve raising poultry and hogs and processing meat from poultry, hogs and cattle, which require us to maintain animal health and control disease. An outbreak of disease affecting animals, such as, in case of poultry, avian influenza and Newcastle disease, in case of hogs, foot-and-mouth disease or classic swine fever, and, in case of cattle, foot-and-mouth disease and bovine spongiform encephalopathy, known as “mad cow disease”, could require us to destroy poultry or hogs or cease selling some of our products to customers in Brazil and abroad. Destruction of poultry or hogs will preclude recovery of costs incurred in raising or purchasing the destroyed animals or result in additional expense for the disposal of such animals. In 2005 foot-and-mouth disease cases in the States of Mato Grosso do Sul and Paraná have affected only cattle, although hogs can also be contaminated. In addition, although Brazilian cattle is generally grass-fed and at less risk of contracting mad cow disease than cattle raised in some other countries, increases in Brazilian cattle production could lead to the use of cattle feed containing animal byproducts that could heighten the risk of an outbreak of mad cow disease. 8 More stringent trade barriers in key export markets may negatively affect our results of operations. Because of the growing market share of Brazilian poultry, pork and beef products in the international markets, Brazilian exporters are increasingly being affected by measures taken by importing countries to protect local producers. The competitiveness of Brazilian companies has led certain countries to establish trade barriers to limit the access of Brazilian companies to their markets. Some countries, such as Russia, impose quotas of Brazilian pork and poultry products, and delays in allocating these quotas or changes in laws or policies regarding these quotas can adversely affect our exports. For example, a delay in allocating quotas for poultry products in Russia in the first half of 2006 resulted in a significant decline in our sales volumes of poultry products to Russia during that period. The European Union charges protective tariffs designed to mitigate the effects of Brazil’s lower production costs on local European producers. Developed countries also sometimes use direct and indirect subsidies to enhance the competitiveness of their producers in other markets. Trade barriers are sometimes applied indirectly to other parties that are crucial to the export of products. In addition, local producers in a specific market sometimes exert political pressure on their governments not to allow foreign producers companies to export to their market. Any of the above restrictions can substantially affect our export volumes and, consequently, our exports sales and financial performance. If new trade barriers arise in our key export markets, we may face difficulties in reallocating our products to other markets on favorable terms, and our business, financial condition and results of operations might be adversely affected. We face competition from Brazilian and foreign producers, which could adversely affect our financial performance. We face strong competition from other Brazilian producers in our domestic markets and from Brazilian and foreign producers in the export markets in which we sell our products. In Brazil, our primary competitor for specialty meats, frozen processed meats and other frozen foods is Sadia, another vertically integrated Brazilian producer. The Brazilian market for whole poultry and poultry and pork cuts is highly fragmented, and we face competition from small producers, some of which operate in the informal economy and are able to offer lower prices by meeting lower quality standards. This competition from small producers is a primary reason why we sell a majority of our whole chickens and poultry and pork cuts in the export markets and is a barrier to expanding our sales of those products in the domestic market. In our export markets, we compete with other major vertically integrated Brazilian producers like Sadia that have the ability to produce quality products at low cost, as well as with foreign producers. To varying degrees, our competitors may have strengths in particular product lines and regions as well as greater financial resources. In addition, our poultry and pork cuts in particular are highly price-competitive and sensitive to product substitution. Even if we remain a low-cost producer, customers may seek to diversify their sources of supply by purchasing a portion of the products they need from producers in other countries, as some of our customers in key export markets have begun to do. We expect that we will continue to face strong competition in all of our markets and anticipate that existing or new competitors may broaden their product lines and extend their geographic scope. Any failure by us to respond to product, pricing and other moves by competitors may negatively affect our financial performance. Risks relating our dairy processed products new business The results of the operation are subject to the production cycles of the principal raw material, milk, in turn affecting purchasing as well as selling prices of the products. The financial performance is dependent on the cost of some products such as sugar and polystyrene used in packaging, over which we have little control. The principal raw material is characterized by a cyclical production, increasing or diminishing according to the seasons, the buying and selling prices rising or falling, on many occasions unsynchronized, the sale price not necessarily accompanying the purchase price. In addition to the price aspect, at peak production periods, the excess volume has to be absorbed, inflating inventory levels and the associated carrying costs, not to mention the risks involved with the short shelf life of the finished products. Another aspect is the risk of animal disease (foot and mouth). Besides impacting production, disease makes the transportation of raw materials more difficult with consequent losses. In addition to these factors, freight costs (domestic), which are influenced by oil prices, also affect Company earnings. These factors cannot be controlled and managed, thus affecting the variations in cost and price with consequences for the Company’s financial performance. 9 Increased regulation of food safety could increase our costs and adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing facilities and products are subject to regular Brazilian federal, state and local, as well as foreign, governmental inspections and extensive regulation in the food safety area, including governmental food processing controls. Changes in government regulations relating to food safety could require us to make additional investments or incur other costs to meet the necessary specifications for our products. Our products are often inspected by foreign food safety officials, and any failure to pass those inspections can require us to return all or part of a shipment to Brazil, destroy all or part of a shipment or incur costs because of delays in delivering products to our customers. Any tightening of food safety regulations could result in increased costs and could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our export sales are subject to a broad range of risks associated with international operations. Export sales account for a significant portion of our net sales, representing approximately 46% of our total net sales in 2006. Our major export markets include the European Union, Saudi Arabia, Japan and Russia, where we are subject to many of the same risks described below in relation to Brazil. Our future financial performance will depend, to a significant extent, on economic, political and social conditions in our main export markets. Our future ability to conduct business in export markets could be adversely affected by factors beyond our control, such as the following: · exchange rate movements; · deterioration in economic conditions; · imposition of increased tariffs, anti-dumping duties or other trade barriers; · strikes or other events affecting ports and other transport facilities; · compliance with differing foreign legal and regulatory regimes; and · sabotage affecting our products. We have been from time to time affected by strikes of port employees or customs agents, sanitary inspection agents and other government agents at the Brazilian ports from which we export our products. In 2005, for example, Brazilian federal government sanitary inspectors went on strike for approximately one month. A widespread or protracted strike in the future could adversely affect our business and our results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations require increasing expenditures for compliance. We, like other Brazilian food producers, are subject to extensive Brazilian federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the handling and disposal of wastes, and discharges of pollutants into the water and soil. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative and criminal penalties, in addition to negative publicity and liability for remediation or for environmental damages. We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and operating expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations. Because of the possibility of unanticipated regulatory or other developments, particularly as environmental laws become more stringent in Brazil, the amount and timing of future expenditures required to maintain compliance could increase from current levels and could adversely affect the availability of funds for capital expenditures and other purposes. Compliance with existing or new environmental laws and regulations could result in increased costs and expenses. Acquisitions may divert management resources or prove to be disruptive to our company. We regularly review opportunities for strategic growth through acquisitions. We made two small acquisitions in 2005, consisting of a hatchery and a poultry-breeding farm in Jataí in the State of Goiás and a poultry plant in Nova Mutum in the State of Mato Grosso. In the second quarter of 2006, we acquired a 51% controlling stake in Batávia, the second largest Brazilian dairy products producer, according to A.C. Nielsen do Brasil S.A. Acquisitions, especially involving sizeable enterprises, may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from existing businesses, difficulty with integrating personnel and financial and other systems, increased compensation expenses for newly hired employees, assumption of unknown liabilities and potential disputes with the sellers. We could also experience financial or other setbacks if 10 any of the businesses that we have acquired or may acquire in the future give rise to liabilities or problems of which we are not aware. Acquisitions outside of Brazil may present additional difficulties, such as compliance with foreign legal and regulatory regimes and integration of personnel to different managerial practices and would increase our exposure to risks associated with international operations. See item 4 “Information on the Company – Corporate Structure”. We will continue to be significantly influenced by a group of shareholders that control a significant percentage of our common shares. Currently, seven pension funds hold a significant percentage of our common shares and, acting together pursuant to a shareholders’ voting agreement, have the ability to significantly influence our decisions. The Pension Funds representing, in the aggregate, 46.86% of our common shares. They are parties to a shareholders’ voting agreement that sets forth voting arrangements with respect to (1) the election of officers and members of our board of directors and of the fiscal council and (2) the matters set forth in Article 136 of the Brazilian Corporation Law, including decisions relating to dividends, corporate restructurings, our corporate purpose and other matters. As a result, these shareholders retain and will continue to retain the power to influence the outcome of important corporate decisions or matters submitted to a vote of our shareholders. The interests of these shareholders may conflict with, or differ from, the interests of other holders of our common shares or the holders of the ADSs. Risks Relating to Brazil Brazilian economic, political and other conditions, and Brazilian government policies or actions in response to these conditions, may negatively affect our business and results of operations. The Brazilian economy has been characterized by frequent and occasionally extensive intervention by the Brazilian government and unstable economic cycles. The Brazilian government has often changed monetary, taxation, credit, tariff and other policies to influence the course of Brazil’s economy. For example, the government’s actions to control inflation have at times involved setting of wage and price controls, blocking access to bank accounts, imposing exchange controls and limiting imports into Brazil. We have no control over, and cannot predict, what policies or actions the Brazilian government may take in the future. Our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects, as well as the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs, may be adversely affected by, among others, the following factors: · exchange rate movements; · exchange control policies; · expansion or contraction of the Brazilian economy, as measured by rates of growth in GDP; · inflation; · tax policies; · other economic political, diplomatic and social developments in or affecting Brazil; · interest rates; · energy shortages; · liquidity of domestic capital and lending markets; and · social and political instability. Inflation, and government measures to curb inflation, may adversely affect the Brazilian economy, the Brazilian securities market, our business and operations and the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs. Historically, Brazil has experienced high rates of inflation. According to the General Market Price Index (Índice Geral de Preços do Mercado) or “IGP-M”, a general price inflation index, the inflation rates in Brazil were 10.4% in 2001, 25.3% in 2002, 8.7% in 2003, 12.4% in 2004, 1.2% in 2005 and 3.8% in 2006. In addition, according to the National Extended Consumer Price Index (Índice Nacional de Preços ao Consumidor Ampliado), or 11 “IPCA”, published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics (Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatística) or “IBGE”, the Brazilian price inflation rates were 7.7% in 2001, 12.5% in 2002, 9.3% in 2003, 7.6% in 2004, 5.7% in 2005 and 3.1% in 2006. The Brazilian government’s measures to control inflation have often included maintaining a tight monetary policy with high interest rates, thereby restricting availability of credit and reducing economic growth. Inflation, actions to combat inflation and public speculation about possible additional actions have also contributed materially to economic uncertainty in Brazil and to heightened volatility in the Brazilian securities markets. Brazil may experience high levels of inflation in future periods. Periods of higher inflation may slow the rate of growth of the Brazilian economy, which could lead to reduced demand for our products in Brazil and decreased net sales. Inflation also is likely to increase some of our costs and expenses, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers and, as a result, may reduce our profit margins and net income. In addition, high inflation generally leads to higher domestic interest rates, and, as a result, the costs of servicing our debt may increase, resulting in lower net income. Inflation and its effect on domestic interest rates can, in addition, lead to reduced liquidity in the domestic capital and lending markets, which could affect our ability to refinance our indebtedness in those markets. Any decline in our net sales or net income and any deterioration in our financial condition would also likely lead to a decline in the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. Exchange rate movements may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. The Brazilian currency has been devalued frequently over the past four decades. Throughout this period, the Brazilian government has implemented various economic plans and exchange rate policies, including sudden devaluations, periodic mini-devaluations (during which the frequency of adjustments has ranged from daily to monthly), exchange controls, dual exchange rate markets and a floating exchange rate system. From time to time, there have been significant fluctuations in the exchange rate between the Brazilian currency and the U.S. dollar and other currencies. For example, the real depreciated against the U.S. dollar, in average, by 22.3% in 2001, 19.6% in 2002 and 4.8% in 2003. In 2004, 2005 and 2006 the real appreciated 5.0%, 20.2% and 11.8%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar. Continuing appreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar may lead to a deterioration of the country’s current account and the balance of payments, as well as to a dampening of export-driven growth. Any such appreciation could reduce the competitiveness of our exports and adversely affect our net sales and our cash flows from exports. Depreciation of the real against the U.S. dollar could create additional inflationary pressures in Brazil by increasing the price of imported products and requiring deflationary government policies. In addition, the prices of soy meal and soybeans, important ingredients of our animal feedstock, are closely linked to the U.S. dollar, and many of the mineral nutrients added to our feedstock must be purchased in U.S. dollars. The price of corn, another important ingredient of our feedstock, is also linked to the U.S. dollar to a lesser degree. In addition to feedstock ingredients, we purchase sausage casings, breeder eggs, packaging and other raw materials, as well as equipment for use in our production facilities, from suppliers located outside Brazil whom we must pay in U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies. When the real depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the cost in reais of our U.S. dollar-linked raw materials and equipment increases, and these increases could materially adversely affect our results of operations. We had total foreign currency-denominated debt obligations in an aggregate amount of R$1,331.3 million at December 31, 2006, representing 72.6% of our total consolidated indebtedness at that date. A significant portion of our consolidated debt is denominated in foreign currencies because export credit facilities available in foreign currencies often have attractive financing conditions and costs compared to other financing sources. However, these foreign-currency denominated credit facilities also expose us to a greater degree of foreign exchange risk. Although we manage a portion of our exchange rate risk through foreign currency swaps and investments, and cash flows from export sales are in U.S. dollars and other foreign currencies, our foreign currency debt obligations are not completely hedged. At December 31, 2006, our consolidated exchange rate exposure was U.S.$111.4 million. A significant depreciation of the real in relation to the U.S. dollar or other currencies could increase the debt service requirements of our foreign currency-denominated obligations. 12 Fluctuations in interest rates may have an adverse effect on our business and the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs. The Central Bank establishes the basic interest rate target for the Brazilian financial system by reference to the level of economic growth of the Brazilian economy, the level of inflation and other economic indicators. From February to July 17, 2002, the Central Bank reduced the basic interest rate from 19% to 18%. From October 2002 to February 2003, the Central Bank increased the basic interest rate by 8.5 percentage points, to 26.5% on February 19, 2003. The basic interest rate continued to increase until June 2003 when the Central Bank started to decrease it. Subsequently, the basic interest rate has been subject to further fluctuations, and, in March 2007, the basic interest rate was 12.75%. At December 31 2006, approximately 80.8% of our total liabilities from indebtedness and derivative instruments of R$2,195.7 million was either (1) denominated in (or swapped into) reais and bear interest based on Brazilian floating interest rates, such as the Long-Term Interest Rate (Taxa de Juros de Longo Prazo), or “TJLP”, the interest rate used in our financing agreements with Brazilian National Bank for Economic and Social Development (Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social—BNDES), or “BNDES”, and the Interbank Deposit Certificate Rate (Certificado de Depositário Interbancário), or “CDI” rate, an interbank certificate of deposit rate that applies to our foreign currency swaps and some of our other real-denominated indebtedness, or (2) dollar-denominated and bear interest based on LIBOR. Any increase in the CDI, TJLP or LIBOR rates may have an adverse impact on our financial expenses and our results of operations. Changes in tax laws may increase our tax burden and, as a result, our profitability. The Brazilian government regularly implements changes to tax regimes that may increase our and our customers’ tax burdens. These changes include modifications in the rate of assessments and, on occasion, enactment of temporary taxes, the proceeds of which are earmarked for designated governmental purposes. In April 2003, the Brazilian government presented a tax reform proposal, which was mainly designed to simplify tax assessments, to avoid internal disputes within and between the Brazilian states and municipalities, and to redistribute tax revenues. The tax reform proposal provided for changes in the rules governing the federal Social Integration Program (Programa de Integração Social), or “PIS”, the federal Contribution for Social Security Financing (Contribuição para Financiamento da Seguridade Social - COFINS), or “COFINS”, the federal Tax on Bank Account Transactions (Contribuição Provisória sobre Movimentação ou Transmissão de Valores e de Créditos e Direitos de Natureza Financeira), or “CPMF”, the state Tax on the Circulation of Merchandise and Services (Imposto Sobre a Circulação de Mercadorias e Serviços), or “ICMS”, and some other taxes. The effects of these proposed tax reform measures and any other changes that result from enactment of additional tax reforms have not been, and cannot be, quantified. However, some of these measures, if enacted, may result in increases in our overall tax burden, which could negatively affect our overall financial performance. Restrictions on the movement of capital out of Brazil may adversely affect your ability to receive dividends and distributions on, or the proceeds of any sale of, our common shares and the ADSs. Brazilian law permits the Brazilian government to impose temporary restrictions on conversions of Brazilian currency into foreign currencies and on remittances to foreign investors of proceeds from their investments in Brazil, whenever there is a serious imbalance in Brazil’s balance of payments or there are reasons to expect a pending serious imbalance. The Brazilian government last imposed remittance restrictions for approximately six months in 1989 and early 1990. The Brazilian government may take similar measures in the future. Any imposition of restrictions on conversions and remittances could hinder or prevent holders of our common shares or the ADSs from converting into U.S. dollars or other foreign currencies and remitting abroad dividends, distributions or the proceeds from any sale in Brazil of our common shares. Exchange controls could also prevent us from making payments on our U.S. dollar denominated debt obligations and hinder our ability to access the international capital markets. As a result, exchange controls restrictions could reduce the market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. Risks Relating to Our Common Shares and the ADSs Holders of ADSs may find it difficult to exercise voting rights at our shareholders’ meetings. Holders of ADSs may exercise voting rights with respect to our common shares represented by ADSs only in accordance with the deposit agreement governing the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will face practical limitations in exercising their voting rights because of the additional steps involved in our communications with ADS holders. For example, we are required to publish a notice of our shareholders’ meetings in specified newspapers in Brazil. Holders of our common shares will be able to exercise their voting rights by attending a shareholders’ meeting in person or voting by proxy. By contrast, holders of ADSs will receive notice of a shareholders’ meeting by mail from 13 the ADR depositary following our notice to the depositary requesting the depository to do so. To exercise their voting rights, holders of ADSs must instruct the ADR depositary on a timely basis. This voting process necessarily will take longer for holders of ADSs than for holders of our common shares. If the ADR depositary fails to receive timely voting instructions for all or part of the ADSs, the depositary will assume that the holders of those ADSs are instructing it to give a discretionary proxy to a person designated by us to vote their ADSs, except in limited circumstances. Holders of ADSs also may not receive the voting materials in time to instruct the depositary to vote our common shares underlying their ADSs. In addition, the depositary and its agents are not responsible for failing to carry out voting instructions of the holders of ADSs or for the manner of carrying out those voting instructions. Accordingly, holders of ADSs may not be able to exercise voting rights, and they will have little, if any, recourse if the common shares underlying their ADSs are not voted as requested. Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in protecting their interests because we are subject to different corporate rules and regulations as a Brazilian company and our shareholders may have less extensive rights. Holders of ADSs will not be direct shareholders of our company and will be unable to enforce the rights of shareholders under our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law. Our corporate affairs are governed by our by-laws and the Brazilian Corporation Law, which differ from the legal principles that would apply if we were incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States, such as the State of Delaware or New York, or elsewhere outside Brazil. Even if a holder of ADSs surrenders its ADSs and becomes a direct shareholder, its rights as a holder of our common shares under the Brazilian Corporation Law to protect its interests relative to actions by our board of directors or executive officers may be fewer and less well-defined than under the laws of those other jurisdictions. Although insider trading and price manipulation are crimes under Brazilian law, the Brazilian securities markets are not as highly regulated and supervised as the U.S. securities markets or the markets in some other jurisdictions. In addition, rules and policies against self-dealing or for preserving shareholder interests may be less well-defined and enforced in Brazil than in the United States and certain other countries, which may put holders of our common shares and the ADSs at a potential disadvantage. Corporate disclosures also may be less complete or informative than for a public company in the United States or in certain other countries. Holders of ADSs may face difficulties in serving process on or enforcing judgments against us and other persons. We are a corporation (sociedade anônima) organized under the laws of Brazil, and all of our directors and executive officers and our independent public accountants reside or are based in Brazil. Most of the assets of our company and of these other persons are located in Brazil. As a result, it may not be possible for holders of ADSs to effect service of process upon us or these other persons within the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil or to enforce against us or these other persons judgments obtained in the United States or other jurisdictions outside Brazil. Because judgments of U.S. courts for civil liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws may only be enforced in Brazil if certain conditions are met, holders may face greater difficulties in protecting their interests in the case of actions by us or our directors or executive officers than would shareholders of a U.S. corporation. Judgments of Brazilian courts with respect to our common shares will be payable only in reais. If proceedings are brought in the courts of Brazil seeking to enforce our obligations in respect of the common shares, we will not be required to discharge our obligations in a currency other than reais. Under Brazilian exchange control limitations, an obligation in Brazil to pay amounts denominated in a currency other than reais may only be satisfied in Brazilian currency at the exchange rate, as determined by the Central Bank, in effect on the date the judgment is obtained, and such amounts are then adjusted to reflect exchange rate variations through the effective payment date. The then prevailing exchange may not afford non-Brazilian investors with full compensation for any claim arising out of or related to our obligations under the common shares or the ADSs. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights with respect to our common shares underlying the ADSs. Holders of ADSs will be unable to exercise the preemptive rights relating to our common shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the “Securities Act”, is effective with respect to those rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to file a registration statement with respect to the shares relating to these preemptive 14 rights or to take any other action to make preemptive rights available to holders of ADSs. We may decide, in our discretion, not to file any such registration statement. If we do not file a registration statement or if we and the ADR depositary decide not to make preemptive rights available to holders of ADSs, those holders may receive only the net proceeds from the sale of their preemptive rights by the depositary, or if they are not sold, their preemptive rights will be allowed to lapse. Provisions in our by-laws may prevent efforts by our shareholders to change the control or management of our company. Our by-laws contain provisions that may discourage, delay or make more difficult a change in control of our company or removal of our directors. Subject to limited exceptions, these provisions require any shareholder that acquires shares representing 20% or more of our share capital to, within 30 days from the date of such acquisition, commence a tender offer with respect to all of our share capital for a price per share equivalent to the greater of: (1) the economic value of our company, determined pursuant to the paragraph three of the Article 37 of our by-laws; (2) 135% of the issue price of the shares issued in any capital increase through a public offering that takes place within the preceding 24-month period pursuant to article 37 of our by-laws, as properly adjusted according to the IPCA up to the payment; and (3) 135% of the market price of our shares within 30-day period, preceding the offering on the stock exchange trading on the greatest volume of shares of the capital stock of the corporation. Holders of ADSs could be subject to Brazilian income tax on capital gains from sales of ADSs. Historically, any capital gain realized on a sale or other disposition of ADSs between non-Brazilian holders outside Brazil was not subject to Brazilian income tax. However, a December 2003 Brazilian law (Law No. 10,833) provides that “the acquirer, individual or legal entity resident or domiciled in Brazil, or the acquirer’s attorney-in-fact, when such acquirer is resident or domiciled abroad, shall be responsible for the retention and payment of the income tax applicable to capital gains earned by the individual or legal entity resident or domiciled abroad who disposes of property located in Brazil”. The Brazilian tax authorities have recently issued a normative instruction confirming that they intend to assess income tax on capital gains earned by non-Brazilian residents whose assets are located in Brazil. It is unclear whether ADSs representing our common shares, which are issued by the ADR depositary outside Brazil, will be deemed to be “property located in Brazil” for purposes of this law. Accordingly, we cannot determine whether Brazilian tax authorities will attempt to tax any capital gains arising from the sale or other disposition of the ADSs, even when the transaction is consummated outside Brazil between non-Brazilian residents. The relative volatility and limited liquidity of the Brazilian securities markets may negatively affect the liquidity and market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. The Brazilian securities markets are substantially smaller, less liquid and more volatile than major securities markets in the United States. The São Paulo Stock Exchange had a total market capitalization of R$1,544.4 billion, or U.S.$722.6 billion at December 31, 2006 and an average daily trading volume of U.S.$1,120.4 million for 2006. By contrast, the New York Stock Exchange had a market capitalization of U.S$15.4 trillion at December 31, 2006 (U.S. domestic listed companies) and an average daily trading volume of U.S$86.8 billion for 2006. The Brazilian securities markets are also characterized by considerable share concentration. The ten largest companies in terms of market capitalization represented approximately 51.3% of the aggregate market capitalization of the São Paulo Stock Exchange at December 31, 2006. In addition, the ten most widely traded stocks in terms of trading volume accounted for approximately 46.1% of all shares traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange in 2006. These market characteristics may substantially limit the ability of holders of the ADSs to sell common shares underlying ADSs at a price and at a time when they wish to do so and, as a result, could negatively impact the market prices of these securities. Developments and the perception of risks in other countries, especially emerging market countries, may adversely affect the market prices of our common shares and the ADSs. The market for securities issued by Brazilian companies is influenced, to varying degrees, by economic and market conditions in other emerging market countries, especially other Latin American countries. Although economic conditions are different in each country, the reaction of investors to developments in one country may cause the capital markets in other countries to fluctuate. Developments or adverse economic conditions in other emerging market countries have at times resulted in significant outflows of funds from, and declines in the amount of foreign currency invested in, Brazil. For example, in 2001, after a prolonged recession, followed by political instability, Argentina announced that it would no longer continue to service its public debt. The economic crisis in 15 Argentina negatively affected, for several years, investors’ perceptions of Brazilian securities. Economic or political crises in Latin America or other emerging markets may significantly affect perceptions of the risk inherent in investing in the region, including Brazil. The Brazilian economy also is affected by international economic and market conditions generally, especially economic and market conditions in the United States. Share prices on the São Paulo Stock Exchange, for example, have historically been sensitive to fluctuations in U.S. interest rates as well as movements of the major U.S. stocks indexes. Developments in other countries and securities markets could adversely affect the market prices of our common shares or the ADSs and could also make it more difficult for us to access the capital markets and finance our operations in the future on acceptable terms or at all. 