ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS The following are certain risk factors that could affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. These risk factors should be considered along with the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K because these factors could cause our actual results or financial condition to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements. Before you invest in us, you should understand that making such an investment involves some risks, including the risks we describe below. The risks that are discussed below are not the only ones we face. If any of the following risks occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition could be negatively affected. In 2006, we developed an enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage risks we face in a holistic and integrated approach. The purpose of this process is to manage risks that can prevent us from achieving our strategic, operational and financial goals. It is important to understand that this process is designed to manage risks and not to eliminate risks. The ERM process addresses many of the risks outlined below. Senior management identifies and reviews with our Board of Directors potential risk uncertainties and develops risk management strategies for those strategic, operating and financial risks that may affect our business at the enterprise-level. Similarly, each of our operating segments identifies risk uncertainties and develops risk management strategies for those risks that may prevent it from realizing strategic, operating and financial objectives. Each of the risks discussed below is considered in the ERM process. However, it is not possible to evaluate and manage every risk that our business faces and further, it may not be possible to POLYONE CORPORATION 7 adequately manage risks even when a risk management plan has been developed and implemented. Demand for and supply of our products and services may be adversely affected by several factors, some of which we cannot predict or control, that could adversely affect our results of operations. Several factors may affect the demand for and supply of our products and services, including: • end of application life-cycle, model change-over or obsolescence due to more cost effective alternative materials; • changes in the market acceptance of our products and services; • competition from other polymer and chemical companies; • declines in the general level of industrial production; • declines in general economic conditions, both domestically and globally; • changes in world or regional plastic consumption growth rates; • changes in the PVC, VCM or chlor-alkali industry capacities and changes to price structures as a result of potential supply/demand dislocations; • changes in environmental regulations that would limit our ability to sell our products and services in specific markets; and • inability to obtain raw materials or supply products to customers due to factors such as weather (especially situations where weather-related events create production or transportation dislocations similar to what our industry faced in 2005 as a result of Hurricanes Katrina and Rita), supplier work stoppages, supply shortages, plant outages or regulatory changes that may limit or prohibit overland transportation of certain hazardous materials. If any of these factors occur, the demand for and supply of our products and services could suffer, which would adversely affect our results of operations. Increased energy costs could reduce our income. Any increases in energy costs will increase our production costs and those of our suppliers. Although we attempt to pass on higher raw material and energy costs to our customers, given our competitive markets, it is often not possible to pass on all of these increases in a timely manner. Our participation in joint ventures may adversely affect our results of operations. We participate in joint ventures in the United States and Colombia and we may enter into additional joint ventures in the future. The nature of a joint venture requires us to share control with unaffiliated third parties. If our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations, the joint venture may not be able to operate as planned. If this happens, our results of operations may be adversely affected or we may be required to increase our financial commitment to the joint venture. OxyVinyls and SunBelt are our two largest equity investments. The earnings of each of these partnerships may be significantly affected by changes in the commodity cycle for hydrocarbon feedstocks and for chlor-alkali products. If the profitability of either OxyVinyls or SunBelt is adversely affected, we may receive less cash distributions from that partnership or we may choose to make additional cash contributions to that partnership, either of which could adversely affect our financial condition. A major failure of our information systems could harm our business. We depend on integrated information systems to conduct our business. We may experience operating problems with our information systems as a result of system failures, viruses, computer “hackers” or other causes. Any significant disruption or slowdown of our systems could cause customers to cancel orders or cause standard business processes to become ineffective, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our manufacturing operations are subject to hazards and other risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. Our manufacturing operations are subject to the usual hazards and risks associated with polymer production and the related storage and transportation of raw materials, products and wastes. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to: • explosions, fires, inclement weather and natural disasters; • mechanical failure resulting in protracted or short duration unscheduled downtime; • labor difficulties; • regulatory changes that effect or limit the transportation of raw materials; • inability to obtain or maintain any required licenses or permits; • interruptions and environmental hazards such as chemical spills, discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases into the environment or workplace; and • storage tank leaks or other issues resulting from remedial activities. The occurrence of any of these operating problems at our facilities may have a material adverse effect on the productivity and profitability of a particular manufacturing facility, or on our operations as a whole, during and after the period of these operating difficulties. These operating problems may also cause personal injury and loss of life, severe damage to or destruction of property and equipment, and environmental damage. We are 8 POLYONE CORPORATION subject to present and potential future claims with respect to workplace exposure, workers’ compensation and other matters. Although we maintain property and casualty insurance of the types and in the amounts that we believe are customary for the industry, we are not fully insured against all potential hazards that are incident to our business. Extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations impact our operations and assets, and compliance with these regulations could adversely affect our results of operations. Our operations on and ownership of real property are subject to extensive environmental, health and safety laws and regulations at the national, state and local governmental levels. The nature of our business exposes us to risks of liability under these laws and regulations due to the production, storage, transportation, recycling or disposal and/or sale of materials that can cause contamination or personal injury if they are released into the environment or workplace. Environmental laws may have a significant effect on the costs of these activities involving raw materials, finished products and wastes. We may incur substantial costs, including fines, damages, criminal or civil sanctions, remediation costs, or experience interruptions in our operations for violations of these laws. Also, federal and state environmental statutes impose strict, and under some circumstances, joint and several liability for the cost of investigations and remedial actions on any company that generated the waste, arranged for disposal of the waste, transported the waste to the disposal site or selected the disposal site, as well as on the owners and operators of these sites. Any or all of the responsible parties may be required to bear all of the costs of clean up, regardless of fault or legality of the waste disposal or ownership of the site, and may also be subject to liability for natural resource damages. We have been notified by federal and state environmental agencies and private parties that we may be a potentially responsible party in connection with several sites. We may incur substantial costs for some of these sites. It is possible that we will be identified as a potentially responsible party at more sites in the future, which could result in our being assessed substantial investigation or cleanup costs. During 2007, the European business community will be required to follow new legislation called REACH, which covers Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals. REACH will apply to all chemical substances manufactured or imported and placed on the European market. These regulations will require us to adapt to the regulatory environment as well as provide compliance solutions to our customers. We already have the ability to do this through a global team of experts. As the regulatory environment changes, the extent to which REACH may impact us is not expected to be material. Even though we do not believe complying with existing REACH directives will have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition, we may incur substantial costs to comply with the new regulations. We also conduct investigations and remediation at some of our active and inactive facilities, and have assumed responsibility for environmental liabilities based on operations at sites formerly owned or operated by our predecessors or by us. We accrue costs for environmental matters that have been identified when it is probable that these costs will be required and when they can be reasonably estimated. However, accruals for estimated costs, including, among other things, the ranges associated with our accruals for future environmental compliance and remediation, may be too low or we may not be able to quantify the potential costs. We may be subject to additional environmental liabilities or potential liabilities that have not been identified. We expect that we will continue to be subject to increasingly stringent environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that compliance with these laws and regulations will continue to require capital expenditures and operating costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. Because our operations are conducted worldwide, they are inherently affected by risk. As noted above in Item 1. “Business,” we have extensive operations outside of the United States. Revenue from these operations (principally from Canada, Mexico, Europe and Asia) was 34% in 2006, 33% in 2005 and 34% in 2004 of our total revenue during these periods. Long-lived assets of our foreign operations represented 32% in 2006, 31% in 2005 and 31% in 2004 of our total long-lived assets. International operations are subject to risks, which include, but not limited to, the following: • Changes in local government regulations and policies, including, but not limited to foreign currency exchange controls or monetary policy; repatriation of earnings; expropriation of property; duty or tariff restrictions; investment limitations; and tax policies; • political and economic instability and disruptions, including labor unrest, civil strife, acts of war, guerilla activities, insurrection and terrorism; • legislation that regulates the use of chemicals; • disadvantages of competing against companies from countries that are not subject to U.S. laws and regulations, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; • difficulties in staffing and managing multi-national operations; • limitations on our ability to enforce legal rights and remedies; • reduced protection of intellectual property rights; and • other risks arising out of foreign sovereignty over the areas where our operations are conducted. POLYONE CORPORATION 9 Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our international operations by reducing the demand for our products or reducing the prices at which we can sell our products, which could result in an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. We may not be able to continue to operate in compliance with applicable customs, currency exchange control regulations, transfer pricing regulations or any other laws or regulations that we may be subject to. In addition, these laws or regulations may be modified in the future, and we may not be able to operate in compliance with those modifications. We have a significant amount of goodwill, and any future goodwill impairment charges could adversely impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2006, we had goodwill of $287.0 million. We completed the annual impairment review required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” (SFAS No. 142), as of July 1, 2006 and determined that there was no impairment. However, the occurrence of a potential indicator of impairment, such as a significant adverse change in legal factors or business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel or a more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or disposed of, would require us to perform another valuation analysis, as required under SFAS No. 142, for some or all of our reporting units prior to the next required annual assessment. These types of events and the resulting analysis could result in additional charges for goodwill, which could adversely impact our results of operations. Lower investment performance by our pension plan assets may require us to increase our pension liability and expense. Lower investment performance by our pension plan assets or a decline in investment grade bond interest rates could result in an increase in our defined benefit pension plan obligations. As a result, we may need to modify our capital expenditure plans to meet our obligations. An inability to collect the remaining amounts owed to us from purchasers of our former businesses could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. In the third quarter of 2004, we sold our Elastomers and Performance Additives business, and in February 2006 we sold our Engineered Films business. These transactions included seller financing, where we retained notes receivable for a portion of the purchase price that is owed to us. The ability to collect these funds from the purchasers of these businesses depends on the future results of operations, financial position and cash flows of the purchasers. The purchasers may not have the funds necessary to repay the principal and interest due to us on these notes when they become due, which could adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The guarantee of our SunBelt joint venture’s debt could result in our having to pay the outstanding principal and interest if SunBelt cannot make these payments when due. We guaranteed $67.0 million of SunBelt’s outstanding senior secured notes at December 31, 2006 in connection with the construction of a chlor-alkali facility. These notes mature in 2017. If SunBelt is unable to make the future payments required on this debt as they come due, it could result in our having to make those payments on SunBelt’s behalf, which could adversely impact our financial condition and cash flows. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS We have no outstanding or unresolved comments from the staff of the SEC. 10 POLYONE CORPORATION 