ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS This Report contains forward-looking statements based on the current expectations, assumptions, estimates and projections about us and our industry. Our actual results could differ materially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, as more fully described in this section and elsewhere in this Report. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. You should carefully consider the following risks before you decide to buy shares of our Class A common stock. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties, including those risks set forth in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere in this Report, may also adversely impact and impair our business. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations or financial condition would likely suffer. In such case, the trading price of our Class A common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of the money you paid to buy our stock. We do not undertake to update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason, even if new information becomes available or other events occur in the future. 12 Table of Contents Our continued success in generating revenue depends on growth in construction of fiber optic MAN, LAN and FTTH networks and our ability to compete in the markets for those networks. Our fiber optic modules are used primarily in MAN, LAN, and FTTH applications. These markets are rapidly evolving, and it is difficult to predict their potential size or future growth rate. In addition, we are uncertain as to the extent to which fiber optic technologies will be used in these markets. Our success in generating revenue will depend on the growth of these markets and their adoption of fiber optic technologies. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from sales of our product in the MAN market. Sales of our products for the MAN market represented approximately 89%, 89% and 87% of our revenue for the years ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. As demand for bandwidth grows, service providers are likely to require increasingly sophisticated systems able to support and meet the requirements of MAN, LAN and FTTH applications and networks, such as cost-effectiveness and reliability in harsh environmental conditions. The projected demand for such networking equipment has led to the expansion of production by existing optical component manufacturers, as well as the creation of new companies in Asia offering cost-effective fiber optic components. This increased competition and resulting lower component cost structure has started to accelerate price and margin erosion in this market. The fiber optic communication industry continues to face challenging market conditions. Capital spending by service providers on network infrastructure has remained substantially below pre-2001 levels. As a result, equipment manufacturers have also dramatically reduced their quarterly purchases of components and modules from our competition and us. While several service providers, including BellSouth, SBC and Verizon, have announced current and planned investment in FTTH applications, which we believe could increase traffic demand on the MANs into which such FTTH infrastructure would feed, it is too early to predict the outcome of these potential FTTH roll-outs. Because visibility in the industry remains limited, we cannot provide any assurance as to the timing or extent of any increased business that we may receive as a result of these or other industry developments. Competition within the telecommunication industry for this growing FTTH segment will intensify and certain of our competitors may be able to more quickly and effectively respond to newer technology or industry standards, devote more resources to development, production, promotion and sale of their products and deliver those products at lower prices. Based on these and other factors, customers may reduce orders for our products and, as a result, our revenue in future periods may decline. In addition, our ability to meet financial expectations for future periods may be harmed. We derive a significant portion of our total revenue from a few significant customers, and our total revenue may decline significantly if any of these customers cancels, reduces or delays purchases of our products or extracts price concessions from us. Our success depends on our continued ability to develop and maintain relationships with a limited number of significant customers. We sell our products into markets dominated by a relatively small number of systems manufacturers, a fact that limits the number of our potential customers. Our dependence on orders from a relatively small number of customers makes our relationship with each customer critical to our business. We do not have long-term sales contracts with our customers. Instead, sales to our customers are made on the basis of individual purchase orders that our customers may cancel or defer on short notice without significant penalty. In the past, some of our major customers canceled, delayed or significantly accelerated orders in response to changes in the manufacturing schedules for their systems, and they are likely to do so in the future. The reduction, cancellation or delay of individual customer purchase orders would cause our revenue to decline. Moreover, these uncertainties complicate our ability to accurately plan our manufacturing schedule. Additionally, if any of our customers cancel or defer orders, our operating expenses may increase as a percentage of revenue. In the past, our customers have sought price concessions from us, and they are likely to continue to do so in the future. In addition, some of our customers may shift their purchases of products from us to our competitors. The loss of one or more of our significant customers, our inability to successfully develop relationships with additional customers or future price concessions could cause our revenue to decline significantly. 13 Table of Contents If we do not develop and introduce new products with higher average selling prices in a timely manner, the overall average selling prices of our products will decrease. The market for fiber optic modules is characterized by declining average selling prices for existing products due to increased competition, the introduction of new products, product obsolescence and increased unit volumes as manufacturers deploy new network equipment. We have in the past experienced, and in the future may experience, period-to-period fluctuations in operating results due to declines in our overall average selling prices. We anticipate that the selling prices for our existing products will decrease in the future in response to product introductions by competitors or us, or other factors, including pressure from significant customers for price concessions. Therefore, we must continue to develop and introduce new products that can be sold at higher prices on a timely basis to maintain our overall average selling prices. Failure to do so could cause our revenue and gross margins to decline. Our markets are highly competitive, some of our customers are also our competitors, and our other customers may choose to purchase our competitors’ products rather than our products or develop internal capabilities to produce their own fiber optic modules. The market for fiber optic modules is highly competitive and we expect competition to intensify in the future. Our primary competitors include Avago Technologies, ExceLight Communications and its parent corporation, Sumitomo Electric, Finisar, JDSU, MRV Communications, OpNext, Picolight, and Fiberxon. We also face indirect competition from public and private companies providing products that address the same fiber optic network problems that our products address. The development of alternative solutions to fiber optic transmission problems by our competitors, particularly systems companies that also manufacture modules, such as Fujitsu and JDSU, could significantly limit our growth and harm our competitive position. Many of our current competitors and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, sales and marketing resources than we do. As a result, these competitors are able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion, sale and support of their products. In addition, those of our competitors that have large market capitalization or cash reserves are in a much better position to acquire other companies in order to gain new technologies or products that may displace our products. Any of these potential acquisitions could give our competitors a strategic advantage. In addition, many of our competitors have much greater brand name recognition, more extensive customer bases, more developed distribution channels and broader product offerings than we do. These companies can use their broader customer bases and product offerings and adopt aggressive pricing policies to gain market share. In addition, existing and potential customers, especially in Japan and other international markets, may also become competitors. These customers have the internal capabilities to integrate their operations by producing their own optical modules or by acquiring our competitors or the rights to produce competitive products or technologies, which may allow them to reduce their purchases or cease purchasing from us. We expect our competitors to introduce new and improved products with lower prices, and we will need to do the same to remain competitive. We may not be able to compete successfully against either current or future competitors with respect to new products. We believe that competitive pressures may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our loss of market share. Our sales cycle runs from our customers’ initial design to production for commercial sale. This cycle is long and unpredictable and may cause our revenue and operating results to vary from our forecasts. The period of time between our initial contact with a customer and the receipt of a purchase order from that customer may span more than a year and varies by product and customer. During this time, customers may perform or require us to perform extensive evaluation and qualification testing of our products. Generally, they consider a wide range of issues before purchasing our products, including interoperation with other components, product performance and reliability. We may incur substantial sales and marketing expenses and expend significant management effort while potential customers are qualifying our products. Even after incurring these costs, we ultimately may not sell any, or sell only small amounts of, our products to a potential customer. If sales forecasts to specific customers are not realized, our revenue and results of operations may be negatively impacted. 14 Table of Contents The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological changes and evolving industry standards. If we do not respond to the changes in a timely manner, our products likely will not achieve market acceptance. The market for our products is characterized by rapid technological change, new and improved product introductions, changes in customer requirements and evolving industry standards. Our future success will depend to a substantial extent on our ability to develop, introduce and support cost-effective new products and technology on a successful and timely basis. The development of new, technologically advanced products is a complex and uncertain process requiring high levels of innovation and highly skilled engineering and development personnel, as well as the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Because the costs for research and development of new products and technology are expensed as incurred, such costs will have a negative impact on our reported net operating results until such time, if ever, that we generate revenue from products or technology resulting from such research and development. If we fail to develop and deploy new cost-effective products and technologies or enhancements of existing products on a timely basis, or if we experience delays in the development, introduction or enhancement of our products and technologies, our products may no longer be competitive and our revenue will decline. Furthermore, we cannot assure you that our new products will gain market acceptance or that we will be able to respond effectively to product announcements by competitors, technological changes or emerging industry standards. Our failure to respond to product announcements, technological changes or industry changes in standards would likely prevent our products from gaining market acceptance and harm our competitive position. Our products may have defects that are not detected until full deployment of a customer’s system. Any of these defects could result in a loss of customers, damage to our reputation and substantial costs. We design our products for large and complex fiber optic networks, and our products must be compatible with other components of the network system, both current and future. We have experienced in the past, and may continue to experience in the future, defects in our products. Defects in our products or incompatibilities in our products may appear only when deployed in networks for an extended period of time. In addition, our products may fail to meet our customers’ design specifications, or our customers may change their design specifications after the production of our product. A failure to meet our customers’ design specification often results in a loss of the sale due to the length of time required to redesign the product. We may also experience defects in third party components that we incorporate into our products. We have experienced, and may continue to experience the following due to our inability to detect or fix errors: • increased costs associated with the replacement of defective products, redesign of products to meet customer design specifications and/or refund of the purchase price; • diversion of development resources; and • increased service and warranty costs. Our products and the systems into which our products are incorporated must comply with domestic and international governmental regulations, and if our products do not meet these regulations, our ability to sell our products will be restricted. Our products are subject to various regulations of U.S. and foreign governmental authorities, principally in the areas of radio frequency emission standards and eye safety. Radio frequency emission standards govern allowable radio interference with other services. Eye safety standards govern the labeling and certification of laser products to ensure that they are used in a way that does not create a hazard to the human eye. Our products and the systems into which they are incorporated must also comply with international standards and governmental standards of the foreign countries where our products are used. In addition, under applicable EU regulations, we along with other electronic component manufacturers are prohibited from using lead and certain other hazardous materials in our products. Our inability, or the inability of our customers, to comply with existing or evolving standards established by regulatory authorities, or to obtain timely domestic or foreign regulatory approvals or certificates will restrict our ability to sell our products. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate adequate additional revenue as a result of the expansion of our sales operations, our competitive position may be harmed and our revenue or margins may decline. Historically, we have relied primarily on a limited direct sales force, supported by third party manufacturers’ representatives and distributors, to sell our products. Our sales strategy focuses primarily on developing and expanding our direct sales force, manufacturers’ representatives and distributors. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs related to the expansion of our sales operations. If the expansion of our sales operations does not generate adequate additional revenue, our operating margins may decline. To the extent we are unsuccessful in developing our direct sales force, we will likely be unable to compete successfully against the significantly larger and well-funded sales and marketing operations of many of our current or potential competitors. In addition, if we fail to develop relationships with significant manufacturers’ representatives or distributors, or if these representatives or distributors are not successful in their sales or marketing efforts, sales of our products may decrease and our competitive position would be harmed. Our representatives or distributors may not market our products effectively or may not continue to devote the resources necessary to provide us with effective sales, marketing and technical support. Our inability to effectively manage our domestic and foreign sales and support staff or maintain existing or establish new relationships with manufacturer representatives and distributors would harm our revenue and result in declining margins. If our customers do not approve our manufacturing processes and qualify our products, we will lose significant customer sales and opportunities. Customers generally will not purchase any of our products before they qualify them and approve our manufacturing processes and quality control system. Our customers may require us to register under international quality standards, such as ISO 9001. We are currently registered under ISO 9001:2000. Delays in product qualification or loss of ISO 9001 certification may cause a product to be dropped from a long-term supply program and result in a significant lost revenue opportunity. If particular customers do not approve of our manufacturing processes, we will lose the sales opportunities with those customers. If we fail to predict our manufacturing requirements accurately, we could incur additional carrying costs and have excess and obsolete inventory or we could experience manufacturing delays, which could cause us to lose orders or customers. We currently use historical data, a backlog of orders and estimates of future requirements to determine our demand for components and materials. We must accurately predict both the demand for our products and the lead-time required to obtain the necessary components and materials. Lead times for components and materials vary significantly depending on factors such as the specific supplier, the size of the order, contract terms and demand for each component at a given time. As a result, we generally maintain high levels of inventories that periodically cause us to have excess and obsolete inventory. However, if we were to underestimate our purchasing requirements, manufacturing could be interrupted, resulting in delays in shipments, which could have an adverse effect on our revenues. If we do not achieve acceptable manufacturing yields in a cost-effective manner, or if we are required to develop new manufacturing processes to improve our yields, our operating results would be impaired. The manufacture of our products involves complex and precise processes. As a result, it may be difficult to cost-effectively meet our production goals. In addition, changes in our manufacturing processes or those of our suppliers, or our suppliers’ inadvertent use of defective materials, could significantly reduce our manufacturing yields, increase our costs and reduce our product shipments. To increase our gross margin, while offering products at prices acceptable to customers, we will need to develop new manufacturing processes and techniques that will involve higher levels of automation and costs to meet these goals that could impair our operating results. 16 Table of Contents We are dependent on a limited number of suppliers for most of our key components. If these suppliers are unable or unwilling to meet our manufacturing requirements, if they raise prices of their products, or if they discontinue key components, we may experience production delays leading to delays in shipments, increased costs and cancellation of orders for our products. We purchase several key components that we incorporate into our products from a limited number of suppliers. We also purchase the majority of our lasers from Furukawa under a Master Purchase Agreement. We do not have long-term supply contracts with any of our other key suppliers and our agreement with Furukawa is only for one year. Our dependence on a small number of suppliers and our lack of longer term supply contracts exposes us to several risks, including our potential inability to obtain an adequate supply of quality components, the discontinuance of key components from our suppliers, price increases and late deliveries. For example, we face the risk that price increases imposed on us by our suppliers will be higher than the price increases (or cost increases) imposed on our competitors when they purchase (or manufacture) similar components; and we face a corresponding risk that any price decreases that we are able to obtain from our suppliers will be less than the price decreases (or cost reductions) that our competitor’s obtain when they purchase (or manufacture) similar components. We have experienced shortages and delays in obtaining, and the discontinuation of key components in the past and expect to experience shortages, delays, and the discontinuation of key components in the future. In the past, industry capacity has been constrained and some of our component suppliers placed limits on the number of components sold to us. If industry capacity becomes constrained in the future, our component suppliers may place similar limits on us or not to sell to us at all. We do not have any control over these limits, and our suppliers may choose to allocate more, or all, of their production to our competitors. A disruption in, or termination of, our supply relationship with Furukawa or any of our other key suppliers, or our inability to develop relationships with new suppliers would interrupt and delay the manufacturing of our products, which could result in loss of revenue from the cancellation of orders for our products, or otherwise result in declines or delays in revenue. We may not be able to identify and integrate alternative suppliers in a timely fashion, or at all. Any transition to alternative suppliers would likely result in the need to requalify our products with our customers, delays in shipment, quality control issues and increased expenses, any of which would limit our ability to deliver products to our customers. Furthermore, if we are unable to identify an alternative source of supply, we may have to redesign or modify our products, which would cause delays in shipments, increase design and manufacturing costs and require us to increase the prices of our products. We continue to negotiate price reductions for the lasers we purchase from Furukawa. However, on a percentage basis, those price reductions have been significantly less than the price reductions we have offered our customers, on products that incorporate these lasers, in response to competitive pressures and associated customer demands. As a result, our gross margins have been unfavorably impacted. While we continue to negotiate with Furukawa with respect to the pricing of the lasers we purchase from them, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful in addressing and/or reversing this erosion in our gross margins. While we believe that our acquisition of GigaComm Corporation (“GigaComm”) may provide us with a second source for lasers used within certain of our products, potentially reducing our dependence on Furukawa and improving lead times and current cost structures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these benefits in the near future or at all. We are moving certain manufacturing operations to a sub-contractor in China, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in China. We have entered into an agreement with SAE Magnetics, (H.K.) Limited (SAE), a wholly-owned subsidiary of TDK Corporation, to manufacture certain product lines in China commencing in the summer of 2007. This agreement will allow the Company to move into high-volume production in China to augment our capabilities in short-run, specialized applications. If our customers do not qualify the manufacturing lines of SAE for volume shipments, our operating results and customer relationships may suffer. We may experience delays, disruption or quality problems in the manufacturing operations of SAE, especially during the initial startup of manufacturing with them. As a result, we could incur additional costs that would 17 Table of Contents adversely affect gross margins, and product shipments to our customers could be delayed beyond requested shipment schedules, which could adversely affect our revenues, competitive position and reputation. Disruption to our operations at either our California or Taiwan manufacturing facilities could require us to lease alternative manufacturing facilities or limit our manufacturing operations. Currently, our manufacturing operations are conducted in our California and Taiwan facilities. Due to this geographic concentration, a disruption of our manufacturing operations, resulting from sustained process abnormalities, human error, government intervention or natural disasters, such as earthquakes, typhoons, fires or floods, or other causes, could require us to cease or limit our manufacturing operations. Uncertainties arising out of terrorist activities, resulting military actions and other factors could adversely affect our business and operating results. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States and recent terrorist attacks in other parts of the world, as well as continued threats of global terrorism, current and future military response to them, the United States military action in Iraq, and the potential outbreak of Avian Flu have created many economic and political uncertainties that make it extremely difficult for us, our customers and our suppliers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. The potential outbreak of Avian Flu, especially in China, where we have significant customer and supply relationships, could also disrupt our operations, sales, and supply chain or those of our customers, which has made it more difficult to predict and plan for future business activities. This reduced predictability challenges our ability to operate profitably or to grow our business. In particular, it is difficult to develop and implement strategies, sustainable business models and efficient operations, and effectively manage contract manufacturing and supply chain relationships. In addition, the continued threats of terrorism, the heightened security measures in response to such threats, and the potential outbreak of Avian Flu have caused and may continue to cause significant disruption to commerce throughout the world. Disruption in air transportation in response to these threats or future attacks, or Avian Flu, may result in transportation and supply-chain disruptions, increase our costs for both receipt of inventory and shipment of products to our customers, and cause customers to defer their purchasing decisions. Disruptions in commerce could also cause consumer confidence and spending to decrease or result in increased volatility in the U.S. and worldwide financial markets and economy. We may also become subject to the risk that future restrictions of immigration controls may adversely affect the residence status of non-U.S. engineers and other key technical employees in our California facility or our ability to hire new non-U.S. employees in such facility. We could be subjected to litigation regarding intellectual property rights, which may divert management attention, cause us to incur significant costs or prevent us from selling our products. There has been significant litigation in the United States involving patents and other intellectual property rights in the networking technologies industry. Many companies aggressively use their patent portfolios to bring infringement claims against competitors. As a result, we may be a party to litigation or be involved in disputes over our alleged infringement of others’ intellectual property in the future. These claims and any resulting lawsuit, if successful, could subject us to significant liability for damages and prevent us from making or selling some of our products. These lawsuits, regardless of their merit, would likely be time-consuming and expensive to resolve and would divert management’s time and attention. Any potential intellectual property litigation also could force us to do one or more of the following: • stop selling, incorporating or using our products that use the infringed intellectual property; • obtain a license to make, sell or use the relevant technology from the owner of the infringed intellectual property, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all; or • redesign the products to not use the infringed intellectual property, which may not be technically or commercially feasible. If we are forced to take any of these actions, we may be limited in our ability to execute our business plan. 18 Table of Contents We may in the future initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights. These claims could result in costly litigation and the diversion of our technical and management personnel. In the process of asserting our intellectual property rights, these rights could be found to be invalid, unenforceable or not infringed. Failure to successfully assert our intellectual property rights could result in our inability to prevent our competitors from utilizing our proprietary rights. If we are unable to protect our proprietary technology, others could misappropriate this technology, which would make it difficult for us to compete in our industry. Our success and ability to compete is dependent in part on our proprietary technology. We rely primarily on patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as confidentiality agreements and other methods, to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Existing patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws afford only limited protection. While we are pursuing foreign patent protections, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect us against the unauthorized use of our proprietary technology and processes to the same extent as do the laws of the United States, and policing the unauthorized use of our products is difficult. Many U.S. companies have encountered substantial infringement problems in some foreign countries. Because we sell some of our products overseas, we have exposure to foreign intellectual property risks. Any infringement of our proprietary rights could result in costly litigation, and any failure to adequately protect our proprietary rights could result in our competitors offering similar products, potentially resulting in the loss of some of our competitive advantage and a decrease in our revenue. We are subject to environmental laws and other legal requirements that have the potential to subject us to substantial liability and increase our cost of doing business. Our properties and business operations are subject to a wide variety of federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and other legal requirements, including those relating to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic, volatile or otherwise hazardous substances. We may be required to incur substantial costs to comply with current or future legal requirements. In addition, if we fail to obtain required permits or otherwise fail to operate within these or future legal requirements, we may be required to pay substantial penalties, suspend our operations or make costly changes to our manufacturing processes or facilities. While we believe our properties and business operations are in compliance with applicable environmental laws and we do not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities for the 2007 fiscal year, there can be no assurance that we will not incur substantial expenditures in this regard in the future. In August 2006, the Company filed an action in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado for breach of contract and declaratory relief against Olympia Properties, LLC (“Olympia”), its landlord at its former Colorado facility. The action arose after Olympia retained the Company’s security deposit of approximately $93,700 upon expiration of the lease, claiming that the Company contaminated the leased premises with arsenic, in violation of the lease. The Company denies that the premises contained arsenic at levels exceeding either those permitted by the lease or any other applicable authority and, accordingly, the Company filed suit. In its complaint, the Company requests that the court provide declaratory relief that the Company has not breached the lease through any act or omission, and also requests damages for breach of contract in connection with Olympia’s retention of the security deposit. Further, the Company alleges additional breaches of the lease by Olympia. Olympia denied the Company’s allegations and asserted counterclaims for breach of ten affirmative defenses. Further, Olympia asserted counterclaims for breach of contract and equitable relief alleging damages of approximately $915,000. The Company denied Olympia’s counterclaims. We intend to aggressively pursue our claims, and vigorously defend against Olympia’s counterclaims. We face risks associated with our international operations that could prevent us from marketing and distributing our products internationally. Although a significant portion of our sales has historically been in North America, a growing percentage of our revenue is generated from sales outside North America. Sales of our products outside North America accounted for 19 Table of Contents approximately 50.4%, 42.9% and 43.4% of our revenue for the periods ended September 30, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We expect that our sales outside of North America will continue to contribute materially to our revenue. Prior to the acquisition of GigaComm, the Company had no foreign denominated sales. We have limited experience in marketing and distributing our products internationally. One of our objectives is to expand our international operations in the future. Significant management attention and financial resources are needed to develop our international sales, support and distribution channels and manufacturing. We may not be able to establish or maintain international market demand for our products. In addition, international operations are subject to other risks, including: • greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • difficulties and costs of staffing and managing foreign operations with personnel who have expertise in fiber optic technology; • unexpected changes in regulatory or certification requirements for optical networks; and • political or economic instability. Our future operating results may be subject to volatility as a result of exposure to fluctuation in foreign currency exchange risks. As a result of the GigaComm acquisition and our intention to move certain production to a contract manufacturer in China, a larger portion of our revenue and expenses are likely to be denominated in foreign currencies in the future. The impact for the period from acquisition to September 30, 2006 was not significant. Accordingly, we may be subject to the risks of fluctuating currencies between the U.S. dollar, New Taiwan dollar and Chinese Yuan varying more significantly than it has to date. The Company may engage in currency hedging activities in an effort to cover any exposure to such fluctuations. These factors could impact our international sales or increase our costs of doing business abroad or impair our ability to expand into international markets, and therefore harm our business. Under certain circumstances, these transactions can have an adverse effect on our operating results. Our limited experience in acquiring other businesses, product lines and technologies may make it difficult for us to overcome problems encountered in connection with any acquisition we may undertake. We expect to review opportunities to buy other businesses, products or technologies that would enhance our technical capabilities, complement our current products or expand the breadth of our markets, or which may otherwise offer growth opportunities. Our acquisition of businesses or technologies will require significant commitment of resources. We may be required to pay for any acquisition with cash, but we cannot be certain that additional capital will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. In lieu of paying cash, we might be able to issue stock as consideration for an acquisition, which would dilute existing stockholders’ percentage ownership, or we might be able to incur or assume substantial debt. We have little experience in acquiring other businesses and technologies. Potential acquisitions also involve numerous risks, including: • problems assimilating the purchased operations, technologies or products; • unanticipated costs associated with the acquisition; • diversion of management’s attention from our core business; • adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers; • risks associated with entering markets in which we have no or limited prior experience; and • potential loss of key employees of purchased organizations. 20 Table of Contents Our recent acquisition could be difficult to integrate, disrupt our business, dilute stockholder value and harm our operating results. On August 24, 2006, we purchased 96.88% of the stock of GigaComm, a Taiwan-based supplier of passive optical network (PON) and fiber-to-the-home (FTTH) components. Prior to the acquisition, GigaComm suffered recurring losses from operations that raised substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern. If we are unable to successfully integrate and manage our larger and geographically more diverse organization, reverse the recurring losses incurred by GigaComm, or if we encounter significant delay in achieving successful integration, the impact could have a material adverse effect on us and, as a result, on the market price of our common stock. Charges to earnings resulting from the application of the purchase method of accounting may adversely affect the market value of our common stock. We accounted for our acquisition of GigaComm using the purchase method of accounting. In accordance with GAAP, we allocated the total estimated purchase price to the acquired company’s net tangible assets and intangible assets based upon preliminary estimates of their fair values as of the date of announcement of the transaction (August 24, 2006) and recorded the excess of the purchase price over the fair values as goodwill. We will incur an increase in the amount of amortization expense over the estimated useful lives of certain of the intangibles assets acquired in connection with the acquisition on an annual basis. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. We cannot assure you that we will not incur charges in the future as a result of any such impairment, which charges may have an adverse effect on our earnings. We may incur additional charges beyond that originally anticipated in the transition of certain manufacturing operations from California and Taiwan to SAE in China. In connection with the transition of certain manufacturing to SAE during fiscal 2007, we announced a proposed reduction in workforce in both the U.S. and Taiwan of between 220 to 260 employees with anticipated charges to the statement of operations of approximately $3.0 million to $3.5 million during fiscal 2007. These transition charges are primarily estimated severance and retention payments. These workforce reductions are not expected to take place before the summer of 2007. Should we lose a significant portion of the workforce to attrition prior to the move, our operations may be significantly impacted beyond the anticipated transition charges estimated. There is a risk that, during this period of manufacturing transition, management will not sufficiently coordinate the role of its workforce to ensure that all areas of our operations receive appropriate attention. If we are unable to manage our workforce, manufacturing capacity and scope of operations effectively, the cost and quality of our products may suffer. Our future operating results are likely to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our stock price could decline significantly. Our historical quarterly operating results have varied significantly, and our future quarterly operating results are likely to continue to vary significantly from period to period. As a result, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results should not be relied upon as an indicator of our future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to vary include: • fluctuations in demand for, and sales of, our products, which is dependent on the implementation of fiber optic networks; • the timing of customer orders, particularly from our significant customers; • competitive factors, including introductions of new products, product enhancements and the introduction of new technologies by our competitors, the entry of new competitors into the fiber optic modules market and pricing pressures; • our ability to control expenses; 21 Table of Contents • the mix of our products sold; and • economic conditions specific to the communications and related industries. We incur expenses from time to time that may not generate revenue until subsequent quarters. In addition, in connection with new product introductions, we incur research and development expenses and sales and marketing expenses that are not matched with revenue until a subsequent quarter when the new product is introduced. We cannot assure you that our expenditures on manufacturing capacity will generate increased revenue in subsequent quarters or that new product introductions will generate sufficient revenue in subsequent quarters to recover our research and development expenditures. If growth in our revenue does not outpace the increase in our expenses, our quarterly operating results may fall below expectations and cause our stock price to decline significantly. Due to these and other factors, we believe that our quarterly operating results are not an indicator of our future performance. If our operating results were below the expectations of public market analysts or investors in future quarters, the trading price of our Class A common stock would be likely to decrease significantly. Our stock price is likely to be volatile and could drop unexpectedly. Our Class A common stock has been publicly traded since November 3, 2000. The market price of our Class A common stock has been subject to significant fluctuations since the date of our initial public offering. The stock market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of securities, particularly securities of telecommunications and fiber optic companies. As a result, the market price of our Class A common stock may materially decline, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, following periods of volatility in the market price of a particular company’s securities, securities Class Action litigation has often been brought against that company. We may become involved in this type of litigation in the future. Litigation of this type is often expensive and diverts management’s attention and resources. Sales of substantial amounts of our shares by selling stockholders could cause the market price of our shares to decline. One of our co-founders, Mohammad Ghorbanali, has recently left employment of the Company and is the beneficial owner of 10,715,051 shares of common stock. During 2006, Mr. Ghorbanali sold 2.1 million shares of our common stock. Mr. Ghorbanali may not be deemed to be an “affiliate” of the Company beginning in 2007 and, thus, he may choose to sell additional shares of his common stock without being subject to volume limitation rules imposed by federal securities laws. The average daily trading volume of our common stock during this current year has been slightly over 200,000 shares. Sales by Mr. Ghorbanali in the public or private market could adversely affect the market price of our common stock by increasing the supply of shares available for sale compared to the demand in the public and private markets. We may not be able to maintain our listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and, if we fail to do so, the price and liquidity of our Class A common stock may decline. The NASDAQ Stock Market has quantitative maintenance criteria for the continued listing of securities on the NASDAQ Global Market. The current requirements affecting us include maintaining a minimum bid price per share of $1. Our bid price has been below $1 in the past. If the bid price of our Class A common stock drops below $1 per share and remains at that level for more than 30 consecutive trading days, we will be in violation of NASDAQ’s listing standards. If within 90 days thereafter, our Class A common stock does not have a minimum bid price of $1 per share for 10 consecutive trading days, NASDAQ will commence proceedings to delist our Class A common stock from the NASDAQ Global Market. If we fail to maintain continued listing on the NASDAQ Global Market and must move to a market with less liquidity, our stock price would likely decline. If we are delisted, it could have a material adverse effect on the market price of, and the liquidity of the trading market for, our Class A common stock. 22 Table of Contents Our success depends on our key personnel, including our executive officers, the loss of any of whom could harm our business. Our success depends on the continued contributions of our senior management and other key research and development, sales and marketing and operations personnel, including Philip F. Otto, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Frederic T. Boyer, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Dr. Liew-Chuang Chiu, our Vice President of Manufacturing, and Jacob Tarn, General Manager of GigaComm. Competition for employees in our industry is intense. We do not have life insurance policies covering any of our executives. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in retaining such key personnel, or that we will be successful in hiring replacements or additional key personnel. Our loss of any key employee, the failure of any key employee to perform in his or her current position, or the inability of our officers and key employees to expand, train and manage our employee base may prevent us from executing our growth strategy. We will need to attract and retain highly qualified managers, sales and marketing and technical support personnel. We have had difficulty hiring the necessary engineering, sales and marketing and management personnel in the past. If we fail to hire and retain qualified personnel when needed, our product development efforts and customer relations will suffer. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we will incur additional expenses that will negatively impact our operating results. We rely upon the ability to use stock options as a key component in our executive and employee compensation structure. In the past, stock options have been significant in our ability to retain important personnel and offer competitive compensation packages. Without this component, we would be required to significantly increase cash compensation levels in order to retain our key employees. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 123 (revised 2004), “Share-Based Payment”, updated the accounting treatment for share-based payments and requires the expensing of equity compensation in the statement of operations and may cause us to reduce, modify or even eliminate all or portions of the equity compensation program. We have potential business conflicts of interest with Furukawa, the resolution of which may not be as favorable to us as if we were dealing with an unaffiliated third party. We have historically relied on Furukawa’s research and development capabilities to provide us with technologically advanced lasers and fiber optic components that we purchase from Furukawa for inclusion in our products, and we expect to continue to rely on Furukawa in the future. We currently purchase the majority of lasers from Furukawa under a Master Purchase Agreement. We cannot assure you that Furukawa will renew the Agreement upon its expiration on September 30, 2007 or whether it will continue to provide services and components to us, and if not, whether or on what terms we could find adequate alternative sources for these services and components. In the last three years, we have negotiated price reductions for the lasers we purchase from Furukawa. However, the laser price reductions that we have been able to obtain from Furukawa have been less than the price reductions for the associated products that we have given our customers in response to market conditions. As a result, our gross margins have been negatively impacted, and may be negatively impacted in the future. While we continue to negotiate with Furukawa with respect to the pricing of the lasers we purchase from them, we cannot assure you that these efforts will be successful in addressing this negative impact on our gross margins. While we believe that our acquisition of GigaComm may provide us with a second source for lasers used within certain of our products, potentially reducing our dependence on Furukawa and improving lead times and current cost structures, there can be no assurance that we will be able to achieve these benefits in the near future or at all. Furukawa can control the outcome of any stockholder votes, as discussed below. The terms of future transactions with Furukawa may or may not be comparable to those that would be available from unaffiliated third parties. Potential conflicts of interest exist between Furukawa and us in a number of areas, including the nature and quality of services rendered by Furukawa to us, potential competitive business activities, sales or distributions by Furukawa of all or any portion of its ownership interest in us, or Furukawa’s ability to control our management and affairs. It is possible that business decisions made by management that are in the best interest of our stockholders 23 Table of Contents may conflict with Furukawa’s interests. For example, we may decide to enter into or acquire a line of business competitive with Furukawa, or Furukawa may decide to enter into or acquire a line of business competitive with us. Any of these events may alter or eliminate our ability to rely on Furukawa to supply key components to us in the future, increase our costs of producing our products and result in increased competition in our markets. We cannot assure you that we will be able to resolve any conflicts we may have with Furukawa or, if we are able to do so, that the resolution will be favorable to us. Furukawa will control the outcome of stockholder voting and there may be an adverse affect on the price of our Class A common stock due to disparate voting rights of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock. Furukawa beneficially owns all of our outstanding shares of Class B common stock, which as of November 30, 2006 represented 93.3% voting control over all stockholder issues. The holders of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock have identical rights except that holders of our Class A common stock are entitled to one vote per share while holders of our Class B common stock are entitled to ten votes per share on matters to be voted on by stockholders. The differential in the voting rights of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock could adversely affect the price of our Class A common stock to the extent that investors or any potential future purchaser of our shares of Class A common stock give greater value to the superior voting rights of our Class B common stock. Each share of our Class B common stock will automatically convert into one share of Class A common stock if it is transferred to any entity, other than an entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with Furukawa. In addition, our Class B common stock will automatically convert into shares of our Class A common stock if the total number of outstanding shares of Class B common stock falls below 20% of total number of outstanding shares of our common stock. As long as Furukawa has a controlling interest, it will continue to be able to elect our entire board of directors and generally be able to determine the outcome of all corporate actions requiring stockholder approval. As a result, Furukawa will be in a position to continue to control all matters affecting us, including: • a change of control, including a merger; • our acquisition or disposition of assets; • our future issuances of common stock or other securities; • our incurrence of debt; and • our payment of dividends on our common stock. Three members of our board of directors are also executives of Furukawa. These individuals have obligations to both our company and Furukawa and may have conflicts of interest with respect to matters potentially or actually involving or affecting us, such as acquisitions and other corporate opportunities that may be suitable for both Furukawa and us. Our exploration of strategic alternatives may not be successful. We have a special committee of our board of directors that evaluates strategic alternatives. The special committee, which is comprised of our three independent directors, retained Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. to advise it in evaluating strategic alternatives, including a special dividend, share repurchase, strategic merger or sale of the Company. We are uncertain as to what strategic alternatives may be available to us or what impact any particular strategic alternative will have on our stock price if accomplished. Uncertainties and risks relating to our exploration of strategic alternatives include: • the exploration of strategic alternatives may disrupt operations and distract management, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results; • the process of exploring strategic alternatives may be more time consuming and expensive than we currently anticipate; 24 Table of Contents • we may not be able to successfully achieve the benefits of the strategic alternative undertaken by us; and • perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of the Company may result in the loss of employees or business partners. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be adequate and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their adequacy, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. Section 404 requires a reporting company such as ours to, among other things, annually review and report on its internal controls over financial reporting, and evaluate and disclose changes in its internal controls over financial reporting quarterly. We may be required to comply with Section 404 as of September 30, 2007. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. In the course of our ongoing evaluation, we have identified areas of our internal controls requiring improvement, and plan to design enhanced processes and controls to address these and any other issues that might be identified through this review. As a result, we expect to incur additional expenses and diversion of management’s time. We cannot be certain as to the timing of completion of our evaluation, testing and remediation actions or the impact of the same on our operations and may not be able to ensure that the process is effective or that the internal controls are or will be effective in a timely manner. If we are not able to implement the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and we may be subject to sanctions or investigation by regulatory authorities, including the SEC. As a result, there could be an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our consolidated financial statements. In addition, we may be required to incur costs in improving our internal control system and the hiring of additional personnel. Any such action could have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 