RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Since we are dependent on the highly cyclical semiconductor and electronic industries and conditions in the markets for the end-use applications of our products, our revenues and net income may fluctuate significantly. Our business is affected by market conditions in the highly cyclical semiconductor and electronic industries. Most of our customers operate in this industry, and variations in order levels from our customers and service fee rates may result in volatility in our revenues and net income. From time to time, the semiconductor and electronic industries have experienced significant, and sometimes prolonged, downturns. As our business is, and will continue to be, dependent on the requirements for independent packaging, testing and electronic manufacturing services, any future downturn in the industry would reduce demand for our services. For example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, the global economic crisis resulted in a significant deterioration in demand for our customers’ products, which in turn affected demand for our services and adversely affected our operating results. Although demand has recovered, we expect there to be continued downward pressure on our average selling prices and continued volatility with respect to our sales volumes in the future. If we cannot reduce our costs or adjust our product mix to sufficiently offset any decline in sales volumes, our profitability will suffer, and we may incur losses. Market conditions in the semiconductor and electronic industries depend to a large degree on conditions in the markets for the end-use applications of various products, such as communications, computing and consumer electronics products. Any deterioration of conditions in the markets for the end-use applications would reduce demand for our services, and would likely have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In 2013, approximately 54.6%, 11.0% and 34.4% of our operating revenues from packaging and testing were attributed to the packaging and testing of semiconductors used in communications, computing and consumer electronics/industrial/automotive applications, respectively. In the same year, approximately 45.4%, 21.7%, 11.7% , 12.8% and 7.4% of our operating revenues from electronic manufacturing services were attributed to the communications, computing, consumer electronics applications, industrial and automotive applications, respectively. Each of the markets for end-use applications is subject to intense competition and significant shifts in demand, which could put pricing pressure on our services and adversely affect our revenues and net income. 7 Table of Contents A reversal or slowdown in the outsourcing trend for semiconductor packaging and testing services and electronic manufacturing services could adversely affect our growth prospects and profitability. Semiconductor manufacturers that have their own in-house packaging and testing capabilities, known as integrated device manufacturers and original equipment manufacturers, have increasingly outsourced stages of the production process, including packaging, testing, electronic manufacturing and assembly, to independent companies in order to reduce costs, eliminate product complexity and meet fast-to-market requirements. In addition, the availability of advanced independent semiconductor manufacturing services has also enabled the growth of so-called “fabless” semiconductor companies that focus exclusively on design and marketing and outsource their manufacturing, packaging and testing requirements to independent companies. We cannot assure you that these manufacturers and companies will continue to outsource their packaging, testing and manufacturing requirements to third parties like us. Furthermore, during an economic downturn, these integrated device manufacturers typically rely more on their own in-house packaging and testing capabilities, therefore decreasing their need to outsource. A reversal of, or a slowdown in, this outsourcing trend could result in reduced demand for our services and adversely affect our growth prospects and profitability. Any global economic downturn could adversely affect the demand for our products and services, and a protracted global economic crisis would have a material adverse effect on us. The global financial markets experienced significant disruptions in 2008 and the United States, Europe and other economies went into recession. The recovery from the lows of 2008 and 2009 was uneven and it is facing new challenges, including a European sovereign debt crisis that began in 2011 and continuing high unemployment rates in much of the world. It is unclear what the long-term impact of the European sovereign debt crisis will be and uncertainty remains over the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies that have been adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies. There have also been concerns over unrest in the Middle East and Africa, which have resulted in higher oil prices and significant market volatility. Any economic downturn or crisis may cause our customers to do the following: · cancel or reduce planned expenditures for our products and services; · seek to lower their costs by renegotiating their contracts with us; · consolidate the number of suppliers they use which may result in our loss of customers; and · switch to lower-priced products or services provided by our competitors. Any uncertainty or significant volatility in global economic conditions may also make it difficult for our customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities and may have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to compete favorably in the highly competitive markets of semiconductor packaging and testing and electronic manufacturing services, our revenues and net income may decrease. The markets of semiconductor packaging and testing and electronic manufacturing services are very competitive. We face competition from a number of sources, including other independent semiconductor packaging and testing companies, especially those that offer turnkey packaging and testing services, and other electronic manufacturing services providers with large-scale manufacturing capabilities who can quickly react to market changes. We believe that the principal competitive factors in our industry are: · technological expertise; · price; · the ability to provide total solutions to our customers, including integrated design, manufacturing, packaging and testing and electronic manufacturing services; · range of package types and testing platforms available; · the ability to work closely with our customers at the product development stage; 8 Table of Contents · responsiveness and flexibility; · fast-to-market product development; · capacity; · diversity in facility locations; and · production yield. We face increasing competition, as most of our customers obtain services from more than one source. In addition, some of our competitors may have access to more advanced technologies and greater financial and other resources than we do. Any erosion in the prices for our services and/or products could cause our revenues and net income to decrease and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our profitability depends on our ability to respond to rapid technological changes in the semiconductor industry. The semiconductor industry is characterized by rapid increases in the diversity and complexity of semiconductors. As a result, we expect that we will need to constantly offer more sophisticated packaging and testing technologies and processes in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. We have successfully combined our packaging, testing and materials technologies with the expertise of Universal Scientific at the systems level to develop our system-in-package (“SiP”) business. However, the SiP business is still in the early stage of development. Early product development by itself does not guarantee the success of a new product. Success also depends on other factors such as product acceptance by the market. New products are developed in anticipation of future demand. We cannot assure you that the launch of any new product will be successful, or that we will be able to produce sufficient quantities of these products to meet market demand. If we fail to develop, or obtain access to, advances in packaging or testing technologies or processes, we may become less competitive and less profitable. In addition, advances in technology typically lead to declining average selling prices for semiconductors packaged or tested with older technologies or processes. As a result, if we cannot reduce the costs associated with our services, the profitability of a given service and our overall profitability may decrease over time. Our operating results are subject to significant fluctuations, which could adversely affect the market value of your investment. Our operating results have varied significantly from period to period and may continue to vary in the future. Downward fluctuations in our operating results may result in decreases in the market price of our common shares and the ADSs. Among the more important factors affecting our quarterly and annual operating results are the following: · changes in general economic and business conditions, particularly the cyclical nature of the semiconductor and electronic industries and the markets served by our customers; · our ability to quickly adjust to unanticipated declines or shortfalls in demand and market prices; · changes in prices for our products or services; · volume of orders relative to our packaging, testing and manufacturing capacity; · changes in costs and availability of raw materials, equipment and labor; · our ability to obtain or develop substitute raw materials with lower cost; · our ability to successfully develop or market new products or services; · timing of capital expenditures in anticipation of future orders; 9 Table of Contents · our ability to acquire or design and produce advanced and cost-competitive interconnect materials, and provide integrated solutions for electronic manufacturing services; · fluctuations in the exchange rate between the NT dollar and foreign currencies, especially the U.S. dollar; and · typhoons, earthquakes, drought, epidemics, tsunami and other natural disasters, as well as industrial and other incidents such as fires and power outages. Due to the factors listed above, our future operating results or growth rates may be below the expectations of research analysts and investors. If so, the market price of our common shares and the ADSs, and thus the market value of your investment, may fall. If we are not successful in maintaining our in-house interconnect materials capabilities, our margins and profitability may be adversely affected. We expect that we will need to maintain our interconnect materials designs and production processes in order to respond to competitive industry conditions and customer requirements. In particular, our competitive position will depend on our ability to design and produce interconnect materials that are comparable to or better than those produced by independent suppliers and others. Many of these independent suppliers have dedicated greater resources than we have for the research and development and design and production of interconnect materials. In addition, we may not be able to acquire the technology and personnel that would enable us to maintain our in-house expertise and our design and production capabilities. For more information on our interconnect materials operations, see “