Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We do not intend, and undertake no obligation, to update any of our forward-looking statements after the date of this Report to reflect actual results or future events or circumstances. The name “Napster”, our tagline, Napster.com, Napster Light, Napster To Go and Napster Mobile are trademarks of Napster, Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and/or other countries. Other trademarks and tradenames appearing in this annual report are the property of their respective holders. ii Table of Contents PART I ITEM 1. BUSINESS Napster, among the most recognized brands in digital music, is a leading provider of online music for the consumer market. Our digital music distribution services enable fans to sample, listen to, subscribe to and purchase from one of the world’s largest and most diverse online music catalogs utilizing a secure and legal platform. Napster users have access to songs from all major labels and hundreds of independent labels, and have many ways to discover, share and acquire new music and old favorites. Subscribers to the Napster service receive unlimited access to our more than 4 million song catalog. Subscribers can either stream or download music with high quality sound and enjoy their music in an advertising-free environment. In addition, subscribers can access many features including radio, Billboard charts and many community features, and are able to enjoy their music on a variety of media including personal computers, CDs, MP3 players, music-enabled cellular phones and digital media devices for the living room. Napster services are currently available in North America, Japan and parts of Europe. Napster is headquartered in Los Angeles. Until December 17, 2004, Napster was known as “Roxio, Inc.”, and we operated our business in two divisions, the consumer software division (“CSD”) and the online music distribution division, also known as the Napster division. On December 17, 2004, we completed the sale of substantially all of the assets and liabilities of CSD to Sonic Solutions, a California corporation (“Sonic”), including all of the capital stock of certain international subsidiaries. Since the sale of CSD, we have focused exclusively on our online music distribution business under the Napster brand and, since January 3, 2005, have been traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol “NAPS”. Napster was incorporated in Delaware in August 2000. We maintain executive offices and principal facilities at 9044 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90069. Our telephone number is 310-281-5000. For financial information about our single segment and geographic areas, please see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Industry Background Consumers are fundamentally changing the way that they interact with content, as traditional methods of delivery are being rapidly replaced by newer digital technologies that offer a much greater degree of freedom and flexibility. This trend has been fueled by the rapid growth of Internet usage by consumers, particularly as a result of broadband connections that enable content to be transferred securely at much higher speeds, and a number of powerful new technologies for compressing and sharing digital content using a personal computer. The playback and enjoyment of content obtained over the Internet is not limited to the PC. Content can be “burned” to CDs easily and affordably, or transferred to a growing number of portable consumer devices, including MP3 players, music-enabled cell phones, and digital media devices for the living room. Additionally, consumers can also enjoy and acquire content directly over-the-air (“OTA”) via advanced wireless networks and download content directly to music-enabled cell phones. The increasing adoption of portable digital players further increases the demand for content as consumers look to “fill up” their players with music, personal photos and videos. Consumers are embracing technologies and services that allow them to conveniently obtain, manage and move digital content in an easy and affordable manner. 1 Table of Contents The growth of consumer Internet connectivity, particularly broadband and the deployment of third generation (“3G”) mobile networks, has increased consumer access to digital media. Broadband PC Internet connections enable consumers to transfer data more quickly than on traditional dial-up connections. Data transfer speed becomes increasingly important as the size of the information being transferred grows. The deployment of 3G mobile networks now allow consumers to access music and other content anytime and anywhere and to download it at broadband speeds to their music-enabled cell phone. We believe these trends, along with other new technologies, will improve consumers’ access to digital media. As transfer speed for digital media to consumers’ PCs via the Internet and to consumers’ music-enabled cell phones via 3G networks continues to improve, we believe that consumers will continue to seek products and services that help them quickly and easily find and access content, manage their own collection of digital assets, and help them move their personal collection from their PCs to other media such as CDs, DVDs and digital entertainment devices, including portable MP3 players and music-enabled cell phones. Portable devices, including MP3 players and music-enabled cell phones, have proliferated and their uses have increased. Many users are playing back digital music, spoken word and video content via consumer electronics devices such as portable MP3 players. The market for portable MP3 players is rapidly expanding. According to the music trade body International Federation of the Phonograpic Industry, in its report entitled “Digital Music Report 2007”, portable player sales totaled around 120 million in 2006, an increase of 43 percent over the previous year. In addition, since fall 2004, a number of device manufacturers, including most of the major mobile phone manufacturers, have incorporated, or announced that they plan to incorporate, Microsoft’s Windows Media Digital Rights Management 10 technology (“WMDRM10”) into portable MP3 players and mobile phones. WMDRM10 technology allows users to extend their online music subscriptions to their portable MP3 players and mobile phones, providing them greater flexibility in the use of their music collections. The use of these devices has created demand for services that can provide permanent or limited access to content to “fill” these devices. Our Solution and Products We deliver online music to our customers as individual downloads and through subscriptions accessible via personal computers and wireless devices. We offer PC based music subscription services, Napster and Napster To Go, which provide consumers in the United States with unlimited, high fidelity, access to over 4,000,000 tracks for monthly fees of $9.95 and $14.95, respectively. Napster subscribers enjoy unlimited access to CD-quality music on up to three computers and have access to over 50 interactive radio stations, hundreds of pre-programmed playlists, unlimited dynamically created radio stations, extensive community features, personalization features, message boards, historical Billboard chart information and enhanced programming. Napster To Go subscribers can transfer an unlimited amount of music from Napster to their choice of over 65 compatible MP3 players for the entire term of their subscription without having to purchase individual tracks and albums a la carte. Napster To Go subscribers can access their music on up to three PCs and three compatible MP3 players or music-enabled cell phones. In addition, all Napster subscribers enjoy community features, such as the ability to send song links to friends, and our subscribers can browse other subscribers’ published collections. We also offer Napster and Napster To Go in Canada, Germany, the United Kingdom and Japan at fees that are based on the local currency and vary accordingly. The feature sets and track availability in these countries vary slightly from the United States. 2 Table of Contents During fiscal 2007 we launched a wireless music service branded Napster Mobile. In conjunction with Ericsson, the leading wireless telecommunications supplier, we offer ringtones, OTA downloads with dual delivery and wallpapers via a variety of mobile carriers in the United States and Europe, including Cingular/ATT, O2 Ireland, TMN in Portugal, SunComm and Dobson. Using Napster Mobile, customers are able to purchase music downloads from our full music catalog using their mobile phone handset and have the songs delivered OTA to their handsets with a copy sent to their PC as well. Napster Mobile is also available in Japan through distribution agreements our Japanese Joint Venture has entered into with Japanese wireless telecommunications suppliers NTT DoCoMo and KDDI. We also provide a PC download music store, called Napster Light, where customers (including those who are not subscribers) can purchase individual tracks for $0.99 each or albums starting at $6.95. These tracks can be “burned” to a CD or transferred to an MP3 player. Napster’s United States catalog of available music exceeds four million tracks, and all content is licensed from major music companies, including EMI Recorded Music, Sony BMG, Universal Music Group and Warner Music Group, as well as numerous independent labels, on a non-exclusive basis. Our Strategy Our objective is to become the leading global provider of consumer digital music services. We intend to pursue the following key strategic initiatives to accomplish our objective: Continue to Pursue and Execute Strategic Partnerships We intend to enter into additional strategic partnerships with the goal of delivering the best experience for consumers and reducing our subscriber acquisition costs. Strategic partnerships allow us to enhance, expand upon and complement our product offerings and increase our distribution by joining with companies that have significantly greater resources and specific expertise than we do. To date, we have entered into strategic partnerships with technology companies (Ericsson, Cingular/AT&T, Microsoft, Intel), hardware companies (iRiver, Samsung, Gateway, Toshiba, Creative Labs), retailers (Tower Records Japan, Circuit City, Radio Shack, The Link, PC World, Currys), online entertainment companies (AOL) and others. Continue to Innovate by Investing in New Services and Technologies We plan to continue to innovate by investing in product development to improve our services, expand the breadth of our service offerings, and maintain compatibility with popular technology standards. A significant focus of our future development efforts will be on mobile content delivery. We plan to enable paid subscribers to enjoy their subscriptions on an increased number of and variety of devices including even more mobile devices. Continue to reduce our Subscriber Customer Acquisition Cost and Churn We have substantially reduced Subscriber Acquisition Cost (“SAC”) over the last year as we have moved away from offline advertising to targeted online spend where we can achieve lower acquisition cost per trialer. We have also increased our focus on our strategic distribution partners where we have shifted away from an earlier framework of giving advances and guaranteed market development funds to a more variable based cost model where we pay bounties only when we acquire subscribers. With this partner based variable cost approach we expect to be able to maintain SAC at the historically low levels we have recently achieved. 3 Table of Contents We have also reduced customer turnover (“churn”) substantially over the last year. We believe that improvements to our product, such as improved programming and personalization, have helped keep our subscribers more engaged in the service. Improved compatibility with MP3 players has also contributed to a much better user experience. We expect that the availability of additional compatible music-enabled cell phones and further improvements to our product and user experience will help us to continue to drive down churn in fiscal 2008. Sales, Marketing and Support In the United States, we have an integrated marketing program and communication strategy with the goal of increasing the number of visitors who come to Napster. We primarily focus our marketing efforts on online advertising, where we can most cost effectively reach our target audience of 25-40 year-olds, as well as strategic partnerships where we can market our service with complementary products. In the United Kingdom and Germany, we also market our paid Napster service directly to consumers through a predominately online marketing program, consistent with the existing strong awareness and perception of the Napster brand. The marketing message is focused on our subscription service, which differentiates our offering from many of our competitors. Our online marketing program includes advertising placements on a number of web sites (including affiliate partners) and search engines. We enter into partner programs directly with PC, MP3 player and phone manufacturers, whereby our Napster music service and/or software is either preloaded on the hard drive (in the case of PCs) or in the device box (in the case of MP3 players and music-enabled cell phones). We also have relationships with a number of direct-to-consumer retailers, such as Circuit City in the United States and wireless carriers, such as AT&T/Cingular in the United States. Marketing efforts initiated via these relationships range from the sale of Napster retail products, such as prepaid download cards, to more extensive promotions, including inclusion in the retail chain’s or wireless carrier’s own advertising efforts, special promotions and in-store displays. We also enter into relationships with online entertainment companies, such as AOL, whereby our partners include links to our service from pages on their website. We expect that our advertising and promotional efforts will continue to focus on building the Napster brand and aggressively supporting our products, such as Napster To Go and Napster Mobile. Product Development We have considerable in-house engineering skill in the areas of digital media delivery, content management, and digital rights management. We have built and maintain (i) a distribution system tailored to manage digital media files and the associated metadata and associated usage rights; (ii) a scalable e-commerce and media delivery infrastructure, which can support a range of business models for the delivery of digital music (and other digital media content like video and audiobooks) including a la carte and subscription services; and (iii) a digital rights management platform that provides security for the digital media assets, as well as the ability to tailor usage rights and offerings to end consumers. The digital rights management capability supports portable subscriptions—the ability to download an unlimited amount of content to a set number of portable devices, and to continue to allow users access to that content as long as they continue to pay their subscription fee. We intend to continue development of improved distribution systems and additional features of our service. Near term, our product development will focus on ensuring that our products work with additional MP3 players and other mobile devices as the market evolves. Research and development expenses for our Napster business totaled $11.0 million in the year ended March 31, 2007 (“fiscal 2007”), $13.1 million in the year ended March 31, 2006 (“fiscal 2006”) and $12.1 million in the year ended March 31, 2005 (“fiscal 2005”). 4 Table of Contents Customers Our online music services are offered directly to end users by us through our website, affiliate network and partners that have procured site licenses. We also sell prepaid cards through our retail partners and bundle our services with OEM partners, such as iRiver, Dell, Creative Labs and Samsung. We have licensed certain merchandising rights to select third parties and expect to continue to do so in the future. Competition The markets we are targeting are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Increased competition may result in price reductions and loss of market share, which could reduce our future revenues and otherwise harm our business. Primary competitors for online music services include Apple Computer’s iTunes Music Store, RealNetworks, Inc.’s Rhapsody, Yahoo! Music Unlimited, MTV’s Urge and Sony Connect. Other competitors include online and offline retailers such as Amazon.com and WalMart, satellite radio providers such as XM and Sirius, carrier-branded music services offered directly by mobile operators such as Verizon (via its V-cast service) and Sprint (through its Music Store) or third-party branded music services, such as Jamba, offered by mobile operators. Our digital music distribution business also faces competition from “free” peer-to-peer services, such as Limewire, KaZaA, Morpheus, BitTorrent and a variety of similar services that allow computer users to connect with each other and to copy many types of program files, including music and other media, from one another’s hard drives, all without securing licenses from content providers. We believe that the principal competitive factors affecting the market for our services include programming, features, price and performance, quality of customer support, compatibility with popular hardware devices and brand. We believe that we compete more favorably than many of our current competitors with respect to some or all of these factors. Intellectual Property Our success and ability to compete depend substantially upon our intellectual property. As of June 1, 2007, we had 27 pending United States and foreign patent applications. These applications cover online music distribution functionality and peer-to-peer technology. As of June 1, 2007, we had twelve United States and foreign patents issued, with terms ending in 2017 through 2027. Employees As of March 31, 2007, Napster had 138 employees, of which 13 provide support to the online music service (maintaining content and providing customer care), 27 were in sales and marketing, 60 were in engineering and product development and 38 were in finance, administration and operations. Our future performance depends, in significant part, upon our ability to attract new personnel and retain existing personnel in key areas including engineering, technical support and sales. None of our employees is represented by a collective bargaining agreement. We have not experienced any work stoppages, and we consider our relations with our employees to be good. 5 Table of Contents Investor Information Our website is located at http://www.napster.com. Our investor relations website is located at http://investor.napster.com. We make available free of charge on our investor relations website under “SEC Filings” our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file or furnish such materials to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Further, a copy of this annual report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this annual report. If any of the following risks occur, our business could be materially harmed, and our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. As a result, the price of our common stock could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment. Our digital music distribution business has a limited operating history and a history of losses and may not be successful. On May 19, 2003, we acquired substantially all of the ownership interests of Napster, LLC (f/k/a Pressplay). We used the Pressplay-branded service as a technology platform to roll-out our online music services division in October 2003. The business models, technologies and market for digital music services are relatively new and unproven. Prior to our acquisition of Napster, LLC, consumer adoption and usage of the Pressplay-branded service had not been significant. You should consider our business and prospects in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties encountered by companies in their early stage of development. Our digital music distribution business has experienced significant net losses since its inception and, given the significant operating expenditures associated with our business plan, we expect to incur net losses for at least the next twelve months and will likely continue to experience net losses thereafter. No assurance can be made that our paid Napster service will ever contribute net income to our statement of operations. During the period beginning April 1, 2003, just prior to our acquisition of Pressplay in May 2003, through March 31, 2007, we incurred approximately $192.3 million of after tax losses from continuing operations. The success of our paid Napster service depends upon our ability to add new subscribers and reduce churn. We cannot assure you that we will be able to attract new subscribers or that existing subscribers will continue to subscribe. Trial subscribers may choose not to become paid subscribers, and users of our free music service or free trials may decide not to upgrade to our paid music service, for many reasons including a perception that they do not use the services enough to justify the expense or that the service does not provide enough value or availability of content relative to our competition. In addition, any reduction in our current level of marketing and advertising will likely result in a reduction in the number of new trial and paid subscribers. 6 Table of Contents The early stages of subscription services such as ours are characterized by higher than normal churn rates. Existing paid subscribers may cancel their subscriptions to the Napster service for many reasons, including those described above in this risk factor. In addition, there is significant seasonality in our subscriber numbers, primarily due to softness in customer acquisition during the summer months when consumers spend less time online. In addition, university students who subscribe to the Napster service generally only do so during the school year when the school is paying for their subscriptions and most of the students do not maintain such subscriptions during the summer in between school terms. While we have successfully reduced churn in the past, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to further reduce subscriber churn or even maintain existing levels. If we are unable to add new paid subscribers and reduce churn rates we may be unable to achieve a profitable business model. The results of our recent asset purchase agreement with AOL Music Now, LLC and our asset acquisition and advertising agreement with AOL, LLC may not meet our expectations. On January 11, 2007, we entered into an Asset Purchase Agreement with AOL Music Now, LLC and AOL, LLC, collectively referred to as “AOL” and an Advertising Agreement with AOL, LLC, collectively the “Agreement.” Under the terms of the Agreement, Napster, LLC will pay $11.2 million to AOL in exchange for all of the subscribers to AOL’s Music Now service, together with certain related assets and liabilities. Additionally, Napster, LLC was granted certain exclusive advertising rights throughout the AOL Music Channel for one year, subject to renewal upon the achievement of certain milestones, and AOL guaranteed to deliver a minimum amount of advertising impressions to the Company. On March 15, 2007, we transferred more than 225,000 former AOL Music Now customers to the Napster service pursuant to the Agreement. We do not know whether these subscribers will cancel at a higher rate than our existing subscriber base. If these former AOL Music Now customers do not stay on the Napster service as long as we have estimated, our revenues will not grow as expected and our business will be harmed. If the advertising agreement does not provide the volume of new customers that we anticipated, our cost per subscriber could increase to undesireable levels and, our business will be harmed. We experience fluctuations in our quarterly operating results, which may cause our stock price to decline. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter. We cannot reliably predict future revenue and margin trends and such trends may cause us to adjust our operations. Other factors that could affect our quarterly operating results include: • timing of service introductions; • seasonal fluctuations in sales of our prepaid cards and bundled hardware promotions, as well as other products and services; • potential declines in selling prices of music as a result of competitive pressures; • changes in the mix of our revenues and our users represented by our various services; • fluctuations in traffic levels on our websites, which can be significant as a result of business, financial and other news events; • fluctuating and unpredictable demand for advertising; • adverse changes in the level of economic activity in the United States or other major economies in which we do business, or in industries, such as the music industry, on which we are particularly dependent; • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; 7 Table of Contents • expenses related to, and the financial impact of, possible acquisitions of other businesses; • expenses incurred in connection with the development of our digital music distribution services; and • expenses incurred in connection with strategic partnerships we have entered into or may enter into in the future. We rely on the value of the Napster brand, and our revenues could suffer if we are not able to maintain its high level of recognition in the digital music sector. We believe that maintaining and expanding the Napster brand is an important aspect of our efforts to attract and expand our user and advertiser base. We rely on a broad branding program to ensure that our position in the digital music sector continues to be strongly associated with the Napster name. Promotion and enhancement of the Napster brand will depend in part on our ability to provide consistently high-quality products and services. If we are not able to successfully maintain or enhance consumer awareness of the Napster brand or, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, if we are unable to maintain or enhance customer awareness of the Napster brand in a cost effective manner, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. We face significant competition from traditional retail music distributors, from emerging paid online and mobile music services delivered electronically such as ours, and from “free” peer-to-peer services. We face significant competition from traditional retail music distributors, as well as online retailers such as Amazon.com. These retailers may include regional and national mall-based music chains, international chains, deep-discount retailers, mass merchandisers, consumer electronics outlets, mail order, record clubs, independent operators and online physical retail music distributors, some of which have greater financial and other resources than we do. To the extent that consumers choose to purchase media in non-electronic formats, it may reduce our sales, reduce our gross margins, increase our operating expenses and decrease our profit margins in specific markets. Our digital music distribution services’ competitors currently include Apple Computer’s iTunes Music Store, RealNetworks, Inc’s Rhapsody, Yahoo! Music Unlimited, MTV’s Urge and Sony Connect. Other competitors include online and offline retailers such as Amazon.com and WalMart, satellite radio providers such as XM and Sirius, and music services offered directly by mobile operators such as Verizon (via its V-cast service) and Sprint (through its Music Store). Internationally we currently compete with OD2, Puretracks, 3 Music Store and Vodafone’s music offerings, among others, as well as with a number of the other competitors described above. Our digital music distribution business also faces significant competition from “free” peer-to-peer services, such as Limewire, KaZaA, Morpheus, BitTorrent and a variety of similar services that allow computer users to connect with each other and to copy many types of program files, including music and other media, from one another’s hard drives, all without securing licenses from content providers. While the U.S. Supreme Court has found that Grokster may violate copyright laws, the court did not establish that such services are necessarily liable for copyright infringement, opting instead for a fact-based analysis of the services’ efforts to promote copyright infringement. Additionally, enforcement efforts against those in violation have not effectively shut down these services, and there can be no assurance that these services will ever be shut down. The ongoing presence of these “free” services substantially impairs the marketability of legitimate services, regardless of the ultimate resolution of their legal status. Finally, several high profile peer-to-peer services, such as Limewire, have started to or announced their intention to move to legally (or partially legally) licensed business models, while still using their peer-to-peer architecture. Many of these entities are well financed with significant installed user bases and if they are successful in moving their businesses to legal models, it could significantly increase our competitive pressure. 8 Table of Contents Many of our competitors have significantly more resources than we do, and some of our competitors may be able to leverage their experience in providing digital music distribution services or similar services to their customers in other businesses. We or our competitors may be able to secure limited exclusive rights to content from time to time. If our competitors secure significant exclusive content, it could harm the ability of our online music services to compete effectively in the marketplace. In particular, some of our competitors offer other goods and services and may be willing and able to offer music services at a lower price than we can in order to promote the sale of these goods and services. If we lower our prices, our gross margins and operating results will be adversely affected. If we do not lower our prices, we may be unable to compete with discount services. This could harm the ability of our online music services to compete effectively in the marketplace. Our advertising-supported music website competes, directly and indirectly, for advertisers, viewers, members, and content providers with publishers and distributors of traditional off-line media, such as television, radio and print, including those targeted to music, many of which have established or may establish websites, such as MTV. We also face competition from general purpose consumer online services such as Yahoo, myspace.com, MSN and Google, each of which provides access to music-related content and services and from websites targeted to music related content, such as lastfm.com and pandora.com. Digital music distribution services in general are new and rapidly evolving and may not prove to be a profitable or even viable business model. Digital music distribution services are a relatively new business model for delivering digital media over the Internet. It is too early to predict whether consumers will accept, in significant numbers, digital music services and accordingly whether the services will be financially viable. If digital music distribution services do not prove to be popular with consumers, or if these services cannot sustain any such popularity, our business and prospects would be harmed. The emerging mobile music market faces significant, unique challenges. We believe that growth in the mobile music services market is key to the future growth in our general digital music distribution services. We are investing heavily in this area but face significant and unique challenges that could adversely affect our business. There are a number of challenges that could impact the adoption rate of mobile platforms as a leading method of digital music purchase, including the rate of adoption of compatible mobile handsets, availability of high speed mobile data networks, adoption by mobile consumers of mobile data plans, development of content and digital rights management standards and technologies acceptable to content licensors and consumers, any pricing differential (both wholesale and retail) between content purchased over-the-air to a mobile device and purchased by other means, and the impact on the economics of the mobile music business of certain issued patents. The success of our mobile music business is also currently contingent upon our ability to enter into strategic partnerships with leading mobile carriers. We cannot guarantee our ability to enter into or maintain these types of relationships. Additionally, there is a trend for certain major mobile carriers and handset manufacturers to create and operate their own mobile music services that they offer directly to the consumer. Should this direct-to-consumer model become more prevalent, it could jeopardize our ability to competitively market our services. If we are unsuccessful in meeting the challenges and complexities of mobile music distribution or are unsuccessful in securing additional customers for our services, our results of operations could be harmed. 9 Table of Contents We rely on content provided by third parties, which may not be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We rely on third-party content providers, including music publishers and music labels, to offer online music content that can be delivered to users of our digital music distribution services. Rights to provide this content to our customers, particularly publishing rights, are difficult to obtain and require significant time and expense. In order to provide a compelling service, we must continue to be able to license a wide variety of music content to our customers with attractive usage rights such as CD recording, output to MP3 players, portable subscription, wireless and other rights. In addition, if we do not have sufficient breadth and depth of the titles necessary to satisfy increased demand arising from growth in our subscriber base, our subscriber satisfaction will be affected adversely. Under copyright law we are required to pay licensing fees for compositions embodied in digital sound recordings and for the sound recordings themselves that we deliver in our Napster service. U.S. copyright law generally does not specify the rate and terms of the licenses, which are determined by voluntary negotiations among the parties or, for certain compulsory publishing licenses where voluntary negotiations are unsuccessful, by a copyright royalty board (“CRB”), an administrative judicial proceeding supervised by the United States Copyright Office. Past copyright proceedings have resulted in proposed rates for statutory webcasting that were significantly in excess of rates requested by webcasters. Currently, there is a CRB proceeding for mechanical licenses in a subscription context. We cannot predict the outcome of any negotiations or CRB proceedings. We may also elect to attempt to directly license compositions for our services, either alone or in concert with other affected companies. Such licenses may only apply to music performed in the United States. The availability of licenses for compositions used in certain international versions of the services is unclear. Therefore, our ability to negotiate appropriate licenses is uncertain. Voluntarily negotiated rates for mechanical licenses with respect to streaming and conditional digital downloads with the Harry Fox Agency and National Music Publishers Association have not been agreed to, and we are currently operating under a standstill agreement until such rates are negotiated or determined by the copyright tribunal currently underway in the United States. Although a decision has been rendered by a United States district court that permanent downloads do not implicate a performance right that would trigger payment of public performance royalties to societies such as ASCAP or BM, that decision could be appealed and the performing rights societies have not conceded the argument or entered into any agreements on that basis. In Canada, a recent tribunal ruling fixed certain rates and other requirements that are applicable to our Canadian digital music services. However, there is still some uncertainty with respect to the mechanics of its implementation, the result of which may hinder our ability to operate in Canada. In addition to certain other negotiations, European Union tribunals are currently in process, which will set rates for subscription music services and services that deliver digital downloads of music, and the outcome of these negotiations and proceedings will also likely affect our business in ways that we cannot predict. Napster accrues for the cost of these fees, based on contracted or statutory rates, when established, or management’s best estimates based on facts and circumstances regarding the specific music services and agreements in similar geographies or with similar agencies. If the final agreed rates differ significantly from management’s estimate, the actual amount paid and expensed could differ materially from the recorded amounts. The differing types and large quantity of licenses that we must obtain creates significant complexities for our business and, as the licensing situation evolves in the different countries in which we operate, these requirements may significantly impact or hinder our ability to execute our business plans. 10 Table of Contents Our success depends on our digital music distribution service’s interoperability with our customer’s music playback hardware. In order for the paid Napster service to be successful, we must design our service to interoperate effectively with a variety of hardware products, including home stereos, car stereos, portable MP3 players, music-enabled cell phones, PCs and other mobile devices. We depend on significant cooperation with manufacturers of these products and with software manufacturers that create the operating systems for such hardware devices to achieve our design objectives and to offer a service that is attractive to our customers. Currently, there are a limited number of devices that offer the portable subscription functionality that is required to support our Napster To Go and Napster Mobile services and certain current manufacturers may not be able to profitably continue to offer existing devices. Our software is not compatible with the iPod music player, the current equipment market leader, nor do we expect it to be compatible with the iPhone cell phone, when that product is launched. If we cannot successfully design our service to interoperate with the music playback devices that our customers own, or if music-enabled devices fail to grow significantly over time, our business will be harmed. We may not successfully develop new products and services. The success of our digital music distribution services will depend on our ability to develop leading-edge media and digital distribution products and services. Our business and operating results will be harmed if we fail to develop products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance or that fail to generate significant revenues or gross profits to offset our development and operating costs. We may not timely and successfully identify, develop and market new product and service opportunities. Additionally, we may not be able to add new content such as video, spoken word or other content as quickly or as efficiently as our competitors or at all. If we introduce new products and services, they may not attain broad market acceptance or contribute meaningfully to our revenues or profitability. Competitive or technological developments may require us to make substantial, unanticipated investments in new products and technologies, and we may not have sufficient resources to make these investments. Because the markets for our products and services are changing rapidly, we must develop new offerings quickly. Delays and cost overruns could affect our ability to respond to technological changes, evolving industry standards, competitive developments or customer requirements. Our products also may contain undetected errors that could cause increased development costs, loss of revenues, adverse publicity, reduced market acceptance of our products or services or lawsuits by customers. We must maintain and add to our strategic marketing relationships in order to be successful. We depend on a number of strategic relationships with third parties to co-market our services. We have entered into co-marketing agreements with infrastructure providers, mobile carriers, retailers and other companies to broaden the distribution of our brand and our services. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew existing agreements or enter into new agreements on acceptable terms, or at all. If we cannot maintain existing strategic relationships or enter into new relationships, our ability to market our services will be harmed. In addition, because of the rapidly evolving nature of digital music distribution and our short history of operations, we often enter into strategic agreements where the financial impact on our business and operations is uncertain. We cannot guarantee that any of these agreements will result in the desired benefits to our business or result in significant additional revenue. 11 Table of Contents Our network is subject to security and stability risks that could harm our business and reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. Online and mobile commerce and communications depend on the ability to transmit confidential information and licensed intellectual property securely over private and public networks. Any compromise of our ability to transmit such information and data securely or reliably, and any costs associated with preventing or eliminating such problems, could harm our business. Online transmissions are subject to a number of security and stability risks, including: • our own or licensed encryption and authentication technology, and access and security procedures, may be compromised, breached or otherwise be insufficient to ensure the security of customer information or our music content; • we could experience unauthorized access, computer viruses, system interference or destruction, “denial of service” attacks and other disruptive problems, whether intentional or accidental, that may inhibit or prevent access to our websites or use of our products and services; • someone could circumvent our security measures and misappropriate our, our partners’ or our customers’ intellectual property or interrupt operations, or jeopardize our licensing arrangements, which are contingent on our sustaining appropriate security protections; • our computer systems could fail and lead to service interruptions; • our mobile partners’ wireless networks or other infrastructure could fail; • we may be unable to scale our infrastructure with increases in customer demand; or • our network of facilities may be affected by a natural disaster, terrorist attack or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these or similar events could damage our business, hurt our ability to distribute products and services and collect revenue, threaten the proprietary or confidential nature of our technology, harm our reputation and expose us to litigation or liability. We may be required to expend significant capital or other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches, hacker attacks or system malfunctions or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches, attacks or failures. We depend on key personnel who may not continue to work for us. Our success substantially depends on the continued employment of certain executive officers and key employees, including, in particular, Christopher Gorog, our Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of these key officers and employees could harm our business. If any of these individuals were to leave our company, we could face substantial difficulty in hiring qualified successors and could experience a loss in productivity while any such successor obtains the necessary training and experience. If we fail to manage expansion effectively, we may not be able to successfully manage our business, which could cause us to fail to meet our customer demand or to attract new customers, which would adversely affect our revenue. Our ability to successfully offer our products and services and implement our business plan in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process. We plan to continue to increase the scope of our digital music distribution operations domestically and internationally. In addition, we plan to continue to hire a significant number of employees in the next twelve months for the development of new products and services. This anticipated growth in future operations will place a significant strain on our management resources. 12 Table of Contents In the future, we plan to continue to develop and improve our financial and managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures. In addition, we plan to continue to expand, train and manage our work force. We may be unable to adequately protect our proprietary rights. Our inability to protect our proprietary rights, and the costs of failing to do so, could harm our business. Our success and ability to compete partly depend on the superiority, uniqueness or value of our technology, including both internally developed technology and technology licensed from third parties. To protect our proprietary rights, we rely on a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality agreements with our employees and third parties, and protective contractual provisions. These efforts to protect our intellectual property rights may not be effective in preventing misappropriation of our technology. These efforts also may not prevent the development and design by others of products or technologies similar to, competitive with or superior to those we develop. Any of these results could reduce the value of our intellectual property. We may be forced to litigate to enforce or defend our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. A significant portion of the revenues from our paid Napster service is derived from international revenues. Economic, political, regulatory and other risks associated with international revenues and operations could have an adverse effect on our revenues. Because we operate in North America, Japan and parts of Europe, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. International net revenues did not account for a significant percentage of our net revenues prior to the sale of our consumer software division; however, revenues from international operations have represented a significant portion of our total net revenues from our digital music distribution business. We anticipate that revenues from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our total net revenues as we expand our Napster and Napster Mobile services abroad and enter into additional joint venture arrangements and other strategic partnerships, if any, with international partners. Accordingly, our future revenues could decrease based on a variety of factors, including: • disputes with joint venture partners; • mismanagement or fraud by joint venture partners; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • seasonal fluctuations in sales of our prepaid cards as well as other products and services; • changes in a specific country’s or region’s political or economic condition, particularly in emerging markets; • unexpected changes in foreign laws and regulatory requirements; • difficulty of effective enforcement of contractual provisions in local jurisdictions; • trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; • potentially adverse tax consequences including changes to the VAT collection scheme; • difficulty in managing widespread sales operations; and • less effective protection of intellectual property. 13 Table of Contents To grow our business, we must be able to hire and retain sufficient qualified technical, sales, marketing and administrative personnel. Our future success depends in part on our ability to attract and retain engineering, sales, marketing, finance and customer support personnel. If we fail to retain and hire a sufficient number of these employees, we will not be able to maintain and expand our business. We cannot assure you that we will be able to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet our business objectives. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims, which are costly to defend and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Many parties are actively developing streaming media and digital distribution-related technologies, e-commerce and other web-related technologies, as well as a variety of online business methods and models. We believe that these parties will continue to take steps to protect these technologies, including, but not limited to, seeking patent protection. As a result, disputes regarding the ownership of these technologies and rights associated with streaming media, digital distribution and online businesses are likely to arise in the future and may be very costly. In addition to existing patents and intellectual property rights, we anticipate that additional third-party patents related to our products and services will be issued in the future. If a blocking patent has been issued or is issued in the future, we would need to either obtain a license or design around the patent. We may not be able to obtain such a license on acceptable terms, if at all, or design around the patent, which could harm our business. Companies in the technology and content-related industries have frequently resorted to litigation regarding intellectual property rights. We may be forced to litigate to determine the validity and scope of other parties’ proprietary rights. Any such litigation could be very costly and could distract our management from focusing on operating our business. In addition, we believe these industries are experiencing an increased level of litigation to determine the applicability of current laws to, and the impact of new technologies on, the use and distribution of content over the Internet and through new devices, especially in the music industry. As we develop products and services that provide or enable the provision of content, in such ways, our litigation risk may increase. The existence and/or outcome of such litigation could harm our business. From time to time we receive claims and inquiries from third parties alleging that our internally developed technology, or technology we license from third parties, may infringe their proprietary rights, especially patents. Third parties have also asserted and most likely will continue to assert claims against us alleging infringement of copyrights, trademark rights, or other proprietary rights, or alleging unfair competition or violations of privacy rights. We could be required to spend significant amounts of time and money to defend ourselves against such claims. If any of these claims were to prevail, we could be forced to pay damages, comply with injunctions, or stop distributing our products and services while we re-engineer them or seek licenses to necessary technology, which might not be available on reasonable terms, or at all. We could also be subject to claims for indemnification resulting from infringement claims made against our customers and strategic partners, which could increase our defense costs and potential damages. Any of these events could require us to change our business practices and could harm our business. A decline in current levels of consumer spending could reduce our sales. Our business is directly affected by the level of consumer spending. One of the primary factors that affect consumer spending is the general state of the local economies in which we operate. Lower levels of consumer spending in regions in which we have significant operations could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 Table of Contents We depend on software from third parties to deliver and to track and measure the delivery of advertisements and it could be difficult to replace these services. It is important to our future success that we are able to effectively deliver our advertisers’ advertisements and it is important to our advertisers that we accurately measure the delivery of such advertisements on our websites. We depend on third-party software to provide these measurement and delivery services. If these third parties are unable to provide these services in the future, we would be required to perform them ourselves or obtain them from other providers. This could cause us to incur additional costs or cause interruptions in our business during the time we are replacing these services. Companies may not advertise on our websites or may pay less for advertising if they do not perceive our measurements or measurements made by third parties to be reliable. We may need additional capital, and we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available. Although we currently anticipate that our available funds and expected cash flows from operations will be sufficient to meet our cash needs for at least the next twelve months, we may require additional financing. Our ability to obtain financing will depend, among other things, on our development efforts, business plans, operating performance and condition of the capital markets at the time we seek financing. We expect to experience operating losses from the digital music distribution business in at least the short-term. We cannot assure you that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms when required, or at all. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity, equity-linked or debt securities, those securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to the rights of our common stock, and our stockholders may experience dilution. There is no guarantee that we will enter into any strategic transaction with any third party. In September 2006, we engaged UBS Securities LLC to assist us in evaluating potential strategic alternatives. We cannot guarantee that any such strategic alternatives, including any possible acquisition or merger of Napster, will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. We are subject to risks associated with governmental regulation and legal uncertainties. Few existing laws or regulations specifically apply to the Internet, other than laws and regulations generally applicable to businesses. Certain United States export controls and import controls of other countries, including controls on the use of encryption technologies, may apply to our products. Many laws and regulations, however, are pending and may be adopted in the United States, individual states, and local jurisdictions and other countries with respect to the Internet. In addition, as we conduct more business via mobile platforms in multiple countries, our business will likely be impacted by additional laws and regulations that are applicable to the mobile space. These laws may relate to many areas that impact our business, including content issues (such as obscenity, indecency and defamation), copyright and other intellectual property rights, digital rights management, encryption, caching of content by server products, personal privacy, taxation, e-mail, sweepstakes, promotions, prepaid card expiration, escheatment, network and information security and the convergence of traditional communication services with Internet communications, including the future availability of broadband transmission capability and wireless networks. These types of regulations are likely to differ between countries and other political and geographic divisions. Other countries and political organizations are likely to impose or favor more and/or different regulations than that which has been proposed in the United States, thus furthering the complexity of regulation. In addition, state and local governments may impose regulations in addition to, inconsistent with, or stricter than federal regulations. The adoption of such laws or regulations, and uncertainties associated with their validity, interpretation, applicability and enforcement, may affect the available distribution channels for and costs associated with our products and services and may affect the growth of the Internet. Such laws or regulations may harm our business. Our products and services may also become subject to investigation and regulation of foreign data protection and e-commerce authorities, including those in the European Union. Such activities could result in additional product and distribution costs for us in order to comply with such regulations. 15 Table of Contents We do not know for certain how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyright and other intellectual property issues, digital rights management, taxation, security, illegal or obscene content, retransmission of media, personal privacy and data protection apply to the Internet. The vast majority of such laws were adopted before the advent of the Internet and related technologies and do not address the unique issues associated with the Internet and related technologies. Most of the laws that relate to the Internet have not yet been interpreted. In addition to potential legislation from local, state and federal governments, labor guild agreements and other laws and regulations that impose fees, royalties or unanticipated payments regarding the distribution of media over the Internet may directly or indirectly affect our business. While we and our customers may be directly affected by such agreements, we are not a party to such agreements and have little ability to influence the degree to which such agreements favor or disfavor Internet distribution or our business models. Changes to or the interpretation of these laws and the entry into such industry agreements could: • limit the growth of the Internet; • create uncertainty in the marketplace that could reduce demand for our products and services; • increase our cost of doing business; • expose us to increased litigation risk, substantial defense costs and significant liabilities associated with content available on our websites or distributed or accessed through our products or services, with our provision of products and services and with the features or performance of our products and websites; • lead to increased product development costs or otherwise harm our business; or • decrease the rate of growth of our user base and limit our ability to effectively communicate with and market to our user base. The Child Online Protection Act and the Child Online Privacy Protection Act impose civil and criminal penalties on persons distributing material harmful to minors (e.g., obscene material) over the Internet to persons under the age of 17, or collecting personal information from children under the age of 13. We do not knowingly distribute harmful materials to minors or collect personal information from children under the age of 13. The manner in which these Acts may be interpreted and enforced cannot be fully determined, and future legislation similar to these Acts could subject us to potential liability if we were deemed to be non-compliant with such rules and regulations, which in turn could harm our business. There are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislatures regarding intellectual property, digital rights management, copy protection requirements, privacy, email marketing and security issues related to our business. Furthermore, as part of our regular business activities now, and in the past, we engage in the issuance of gift cards redeemable for our services. It is possible that money received by us for the sale of gift cards could be subject to state and federal escheatment, or unclaimed property, laws in the future. If this were the case, our business could be adversely impacted. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could materially and adversely affect our business through a decrease in user registration and revenue, and influence how and whether we can communicate with our customers. We may be subject to market risk and legal liability in connection with the data collection capabilities of our products and services. Many of our products are interactive Internet or mobile applications which by their very nature require communication between a client and server to operate. To provide better consumer experiences and to operate effectively, our products send information to servers. Many of the services we provide also require that a user provide certain information to us. We post an extensive privacy policy concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data involved in interactions between our client and server products. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policy and existing or new legislation regarding privacy issues could impact the market for our products and services, subject us to litigation and harm our business. 16 Table of Contents If, in the future, we conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not adequate, or if our auditors conclude that our evaluation of internal controls over financial reporting is not adequate, investors could lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could result in a decrease in the value of our common stock. As directed by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) adopted rules requiring public companies to include a report of management on the company’s internal control over financial reporting in their annual reports on Form 10-K. This report is required to contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm auditing a public company’s financial statements must attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. There is a risk that in the future we may identify internal control deficiencies that suggest that our controls are no longer effective. This could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements, which could cause the market price of our common stock to decline and make it more difficult for us to finance our operations. The effectiveness of our disclosure and internal controls may be limited. Our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors and misrepresentations. In the event that there are errors or misrepresentations in our historical financial statements or the SEC disagrees with our accounting, we may need to restate our financial statements. For example, in November 2004 we restated our financial statements in order to correct the valuation of a previously issued warrant and to adjust the purchase accounting of our former subsidiary, MGI Software, and in May 2005 we restated our financial statements to reallocate the tax benefit of certain operating losses from our discontinued operations to our continuing operations. Any system of internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance that all control objectives are met. Some of the potential risks involved could include, but are not limited to, management judgments, simple errors or mistakes, willful misconduct regarding controls or misinterpretation. There is no guarantee that existing controls will prevent or detect all material issues or be effective in future conditions, which could materially and adversely impact our financial results in the future. Provisions in our agreements, charter documents, stockholder rights plan and Delaware law may delay or prevent acquisition of us, which could decrease the value of our stock. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include a classified board of directors and limitations on actions by our stockholders by written consent. In addition, our board of directors has the right to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer. Delaware law also imposes some restrictions on mergers and other business combinations between us and any holder of 15% or more of our outstanding common stock. In addition, we have adopted a stockholder rights plan that makes it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the approval of our board of directors. Although we believe these provisions provide for an opportunity to receive a higher bid by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors, these provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None 17 Table of Contents 