1A. Risk Factors In addition to the discussion and analysis set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the cautionary statements set forth in “Item 1. Business,” the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and outlook. The Global Credit Market Instability and Weak Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Liquidity, Financial Condition, and Earnings Global financial markets recently have been, and continue to be, unstable and unpredictable, and economic conditions have been weak. Developments relating to the federal budget and federal borrowing authority could also negatively impact these markets. Continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness could affect the Company’s ability to sell investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and financial position. This instability also could affect the prices at which the Company could make any such sales, which could adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. Conditions could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to secure funds or raise capital for acquisitions and other projects, which in turn, could cause the Company to use deposits or other funding sources for such projects. In addition, the instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the strength of the Company’s customers or counterparties, their willingness to do business, and/or their ability to fulfill their obligations, which could further affect the Company’s earnings. Current conditions, including high unemployment, weak corporate performance, soft real estate markets, and the decline of home sales and property values, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations and prepayments, the value of the real estate securing the Company’s mortgage loans, and borrowers’ ability to repay loan obligations, all of which could adversely impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. The Company’s Actual Loan Losses May Exceed its Allowance for Loan Losses, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on the Company’s Earnings The Company has policies and procedures in place to manage its exposure to risk related to its lending operations. These practices include, among other things, geographic limits; restrictions on lending in certain situations; underwriting practices; regularly monitoring loan payment status; and/or corresponding regularly with and obtaining regular financial updates from large borrowers and/or guarantors. However, despite these practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Continued economic weakness, including high unemployment rates and declining values of the collateral underlying loans, may affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loan obligations that could lead to increased loan losses or provisions. As a result, the Company may experience significant loan losses, including losses that may exceed the amounts established in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Further Declines in the Real Estate Values May Continue to Adversely Affect Collateral Values and the Company’s Profits The Company’s market areas have generally experienced a decline in real estate values, an increase in residential and non-residential tenant vacancies, and weakness in the market for sale of new properties. These developments could negatively affect the value of the collateral securing the Company’s mortgage and related loans. That decrease in value could in turn lead to increased losses on loans in the event of foreclosures. Increased losses would affect the Company’s loan loss allowance and may cause it to increase its provision for loan losses resulting in a charge to earnings. Some of the Company’s Lending Activities Are Riskier than One- to Four-Family Real Estate Loans The Company has identified commercial real estate, commercial business, construction, and consumer loans as areas for lending emphasis and has recently augmented its personnel to increase its penetration in the commercial lending market. While lending diversification is being pursued for the purpose of increasing net interest income, these types of loans historically have carried greater risk of payment default than residential real estate loans. As the volume of these loans increases, credit risk increases. In the event of continued substantial borrower defaults and/or increased defaults resulting from these diverse types of lending, the Company’s provision for loan losses would further increase and loans may be written off, and therefore, earnings would be reduced. 25 Table of Contents The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends to the Company Is Subject to Current and Potential Future Limitations That May Affect the Company’s Ability to Pay Dividends to Its Shareholders and Repurchase Its Stock The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and engages in no substantial activities other than its ownership of the common stock of the Bank. Consequently, the Company’s net income and cash flows are derived primarily from the Bank’s operations and capital distributions. The availability of dividends from the Bank to the Company is limited by various statutes and regulations, including those of the OTS; as a result, it is possible, depending on the results of operations and the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OTS could restrict the payment by the Bank of dividends or other capital distributions or take other actions which could negatively affect the Bank’s results and dividend capacity. The federal regulators have become increasingly stringent in their interpretation, application and enforcement of banks’ capital requirements, which also could affect the OTS’s willingness to approve Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is required to further reduce its dividends to the Company, or is unable to pay dividends at all, the Company may not be able to pay dividends to its shareholders at existing levels or at all and/or may not be able to repurchase its common stock. The Company Has Significant Goodwill That It May Need to Write Off (Expense) in the Future The Company has $52.6 million in goodwill as of December 31, 2010. The Company analyzes goodwill for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently when, in the judgment of management, an event has occurred that may indicate that additional analysis is required. At some point in the future, particularly in the event of deterioration in the Company’s financial condition or operating results, further weakness in the financial institutions industry, and/or continued economic weakness, the Company’s goodwill could become impaired and it would need to write all or a portion of it off as a reduction to earnings in the period in which it becomes impaired. Recent and Future Legislation and Rulemaking in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition Instability. volatility, and failures in the credit and financial institutions markets have led regulators and legislators to consider and/or adopt proposals that will significantly affect financial institutions and holding companies, including the Company. Legislation such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, as well as programs such as the Troubled Assets Relief Program, were adopted. Although designed to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate impact of these actions on financial markets. The failure of these actions could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of the Company’s securities. Recent legislation, and further legislative and regulatory proposals to reform the U.S. financial system will affect the Company and the Bank. These acts and regulatory actions, as well as future legislative and regulatory proposals, will, among other things, replace the OTS as the Bank’s and the Company’s primary regulator (likely in 2011), create a Consumer Financial Protection Agency, impose capital requirements upon the Company, and subject financial institutions to significant further regulation in many aspects of their business. Under pending proposals, the roles of Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac could be substantially altered or eliminated, which could have a significant effect on the housing market in the United States and our lending for real estate mortgages. Additionally, the FDIC has changed the basis for its assessment of deposit insurance fees, and higher taxes and/or special fees or assessments have been proposed to apply to some or all businesses in general, or financial institutions specifically, which could create direct additional costs for the Company. Also, the economic conditions have resulted in periodic attempts by federal, state, and/or local governments to legislate foreclosure forbearance, forced loan modifications, “cram downs” of losses to lenders in bankruptcy proceedings, or “upkeep laws” for foreclosed properties. Such efforts, if successful, could lead to increased loan charge-offs or loan loss provisions and/or reduced income. These efforts could also adversely affect the value of certain mortgage-related securities not guaranteed by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and Ginnie Mae, such as private-label CMOs. The recently-enacted laws, proposed acts, taxes and fees, or any other legislation or regulations ultimately enacted, could materially affect the Company, the Bank and their operations and profitability by imposing additional regulatory burdens and costs, imposing limits on fees and other sources of income, and otherwise more generally affecting the conduct of their business. 26 Table of Contents Changes in the Financial Condition or Future Prospects of the FHLB of Chicago May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Investment in FHLB Common Stock The Company is a voluntary member of the FHLB of Chicago, and holds shares in the FHLB of Chicago as a condition of borrowing money from it. From 2007 through 2010, the FHLB of Chicago was required to suspend payment of dividends on its stock, although it recently resumed payment of a modest cash dividend in the first quarter of 2011. However, if there are any developments in the future that impair the value of the common stock of the FHLB of Chicago, the Company would be required to write down the value of the shares that it holds, which in turn could affect the Company’s net income and shareholders’ equity. The Interest Rate Environment May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Net Interest Income Interest rates have been volatile in recent years, even though they were relatively stable in 2009 and 2010. A volatile interest rate environment makes it difficult for the Company to coordinate the timing and amount of changes in the rates of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings with the rates of interest it earns on loans and securities. In addition, volatile interest rate environments cause corresponding volatility in the demand by individuals and businesses for the loan and deposit products offered by the Company. This volatility has a direct impact on the Company’s net interest income, and consequently, its net income. Future interest rates could continue to be volatile and management is unable to predict the impact such volatility would have on the net interest income and profits of the Company. Changes in Market Interest Rates or Other Conditions May Have an Adverse Impact on the Fair Value of the Company’s Available-for-Sale Securities, Shareholders’ Equity, and Profits GAAP requires the Company to carry its securities at fair value on its balance sheet. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities, reflecting the difference between the fair market value and the amortized cost, net of its tax effect, are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity. When market rates of interest increase, the fair value of the Company’s securities available-for-sale generally decreases and equity correspondingly decreases. When rates decrease, fair value generally increases and shareholders’ equity correspondingly increases. However, due to significant disruptions in global financial markets during 2008, this usual relationship was disrupted. Despite a declining interest rate environment during that period, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale securities declined in value, its private-label CMOs in particular. Although the value of these securities recovered somewhat in 2009 and 2010, management expects continued volatility in the fair value of its private-label CMOs and is not able to predict when or if the fair value of such securities will fully recover. Wisconsin Tax Developments Could Reduce the Company’s Net Income Like many Wisconsin financial institutions, the Company has non-Wisconsin subsidiaries that hold and manage investment assets and loans, the income from which has not been subject to Wisconsin tax prior to 2009. The Wisconsin Department of Revenue (the “Department”) has instituted an audit program specifically aimed at financial institutions’ out-of-state investment subsidiaries. The Department has asserted the position that some or all of the income of the out-of-state subsidiaries in years prior to 2009 was taxable in Wisconsin. In 2010 the Department’s auditor issued a Notice of Proposed Audit Report to the Bank which proposes to tax all of the income of the Bank’s out-of-state investment subsidiaries for all periods that are still open under the statute of limitations, which includes tax year back to 1997. This is merely a preliminary determination made by the auditor and does not represent a formal assessment. The Bank’s outside legal counsel has met with representatives of the Department to discuss, and object to, the auditor’s proposed adjustments. The Department has not yet responded to the Company’s objection. Management continues to believe that the Bank has reported income and paid Wisconsin taxes in prior periods in accordance with applicable legal requirements and the Department’s long-standing interpretations of them and that the Bank’s position will prevail in discussions with the Department, court proceedings, or other actions that may occur. Ultimately, however, an adverse resolution of these matters could result in additional Wisconsin tax obligations for prior periods, which could have a substantial negative impact on the Bank’s earnings in the period such resolution is reached. The Bank may also incur further costs in the future to address and defend these issues. 27 Table of Contents Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Affect Net Income The Company encounters strong competition both in attracting deposits and originating real estate and other loans. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. The Company’s market area includes branches of several commercial banks that are substantially larger than the Company in terms of deposits and loans. In addition, tax-exempt credit unions operate in most of the Company’s market area and aggressively price their products and services to a large part of the population. If competitors succeed in attracting business from the Company’s customers, its deposits and loans could be reduced, which would likely affect earnings. FDIC Increases in Deposit Insurance Premiums Have Raised the Company’s Expenses In 2009 the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance, imposed a special assessment, and required financial institutions to prepay assessments for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. These measures were partly in response to the high level of recent bank failures that caused an increase in FDIC resolution costs and a reduction in the deposit insurance fund. Furthermore, in February 2011 the FDIC issued a new rule that changes the assessment base and risk-based assessment rates of all insured financial institutions beginning April 1, 2011. These changes may continue to adversely affect the earnings of the Company and/or the Bank. The Company’s Ability to Grow May Be Limited if It Cannot Make Acquisitions The Company will continue to seek to expand its banking franchise by opening new offices, growing internally, and acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial services providers. The Company’s ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring, and integrating those institution or branches. The Company has not made any acquisitions in recent years, as management has not identified acquisitions for which it was able to reach an agreement on terms management believed were appropriate and/or that met its acquisition criteria. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to generate internal growth, identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. The Company Depends on Certain Key Personnel and the Company’s Business Could Be Harmed by the Loss of Their Services The Company’s success depends in large part on the continued service and availability of its management team, and on its ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. This team was recently augmented in order to attempt to increase the Company’s penetration into the commercial lending market. The competition for these individuals can be significant, and the loss of key personnel could harm the Company’s business. The Company cannot provide assurances that it will be able to retain existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. The Company Is Subject to Security and Operational Risks Relating to the Use of Technology that Could Damage Its Reputation and Business Security breaches in the Company’s internet, telephonic, or other electronic banking activities could expose it to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of the Company’s security also could deter customers from using its internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Company relies on standard internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect the Company’s systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures, which could result in damage to the Company’s reputation and business. Additionally, the Company outsources a large portion of its data processing to third parties. If these third party providers encounter technological or other difficulties or if they have difficulty in communicating with the Company, it will significantly affect the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect business operations. 28 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 