RISK FACTORS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Risks Related to our Company and our Industry Our revenues and expenses are difficult to predict because they can fluctuate significantly given the nature of the markets in which we operate. This increases the likelihood that our results could fall below the expectation of market analysts, which could cause the price of our equity shares and ADSs to decline. Our revenue historically has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future depending on a number of factors, including: • the size, complexity, timing, pricing terms and profitability of significant projects or product orders; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the proportion of services we perform at our clients’ sites rather than at our offshore facilities; • seasonal changes that affect the mix of services we provide to our clients or the relative proportion of services and product revenue; • seasonal changes that affect purchasing patterns among our consumers of desktops, notebooks, servers, communication devices, consumer care and other products; • unanticipated cancellations, contract terminations or deferral of projects or those occurring as a result of our clients reorganizing their operations; • the duration of tax holidays or exemptions and the availability of other Government of India incentives; • the effect of seasonal hiring patterns and the time we require to train and productively utilize our new employees; • unanticipated variations in the duration, size and scope of our projects, as well as changes in the corporate decision-making process of our clients; • currency exchange fluctuations; and • other economic and political factors. A significant portion of our total operating expenses in our IT Services and Products business, particularly personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or employee utilization rates may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Thus, it is possible that in the future some of our periodic results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and the market price of our equity shares and ADSs could decline. Our net income increased by 11% in the year ended March 31, 2008, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2007. We continue to face increasing competition, pricing pressures for our products and services and wage pressures for our work force in India primarily due to large U.S. multinational corporations establishing offshore operations in India. We are also investing in developing capabilities in new technology areas and deepening our domain expertise. While we believe that our global delivery model allows us to manage costs efficiently, as the proportion of our services delivered at client sites increases, we may not be able to keep our operating costs as low in the future. In our Business Process Outsourcing, or BPO, business, we are diversifying our service offerings to include process transformation services. High attrition levels and higher proportion of revenues from customer interaction services could adversely impact our operating margins. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our historic levels of profitability. 8 Table of Contents If we do not continue to improve our administrative, operational and financial personnel and systems to manage our growth, the value of our shareholders’ investment may be harmed. We have experienced significant growth in all our businesses. We expect our growth to continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources. This will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in: • recruiting and retaining sufficiently skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; • adhering to our high quality standards; • maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; and • preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, the quality of our services and products may decline, and our ability to attract clients and skilled personnel may be negatively affected. These factors in turn could negatively affect the growth of our Global IT Services and Products business and harm the value of our shareholders’ investment. Intense competition in the market for IT services could adversely affect our cost advantages, and, as a result, decrease our revenues. The market for IT services is highly competitive. Our competitors include software companies, IT companies, systems consulting and integration firms, other technology companies and client in-house information services departments. We may also face competition from IT companies operating from China and the Philippines. Many of our competitors command significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue than we do. The proposed merger of HP and EDS would possibly increase the competition in the market for IT services. We cannot be reasonably certain that we will be able to compete successfully against such competitors or that we will not lose our key employees or clients to such competitors. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the availability of skilled resources, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services, and the extent of our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients’ needs. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. We have been expanding the nature and scope of our engagements and have added new service offerings, such as IT consulting, business process management, systems integration and outsourcing of entire portions of IT infrastructure. The success of these service offerings is dependent, in part, upon continued demand for such services by our existing and new clients and our ability to meet this demand in a cost-competitive and effective manner. In addition, our ability to effectively offer a wider breadth of end-to-end business solutions depends on our ability to attract existing or new clients to these service offerings. To obtain engagements for such end-to-end solutions, we also are more likely to compete with large, well-established international consulting firms, resulting in increased compensation and marketing costs. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that our new service offerings will effectively meet client needs or that we will be able to attract existing and new clients to these service offerings. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex projects with our clients. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients and a thorough understanding of their operations. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on a number of factors, including the proficiency of our IT professionals and our management personnel. Our failure to understand our client requirements or our failure to deliver services which meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts, and we could be liable to our clients for significant penalties or damages. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for additional stages or may cancel or delay additional planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally, as opposed to factors related to the quality of our services. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and inaccuracies in such resource planning may have a negative impact on our profitability. 9 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part upon the ability of our management team and other highly skilled professionals. If we fail to retain and attract these personnel, our business may be unable to grow and our revenue could decline, which may decrease the value of our shareholders’ investment. We are highly dependent on the senior members of our management team, including the continued efforts of our Chairman and Managing Director. Our ability to execute project engagements and to obtain new clients depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals, especially project managers, software engineers and other senior technical personnel. If we cannot hire and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to bid on and obtain new projects and to continue to expand our business will be impaired and our revenue could decline. We believe that there is significant competition for professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. We may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced employees to replace those who leave. Additionally, we may not be able to re-deploy and retain our employees to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. We are experiencing high employee attrition rates, in line with the industry, in our BPO services business. Continued employee attrition rates in this business may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The Central Government in India is considering introducing legislation mandating employers to give preferential hiring treatment to under-represented groups. State Governments in India may also introduce such legislation. The quality of our work force is critical to our business. The legislation may adversely affect our ability to hire the most qualified and competent technology and other professionals. Changes in government policies also affect our ability to hire, attract and retain personnel. For instance, the Finance Act, 2007 has imposed a fringe benefit tax (FBT) on companies in respect of specified securities or equity shares allotted or transferred, directly or indirectly, by the company free of cost or at a concessional rate to its employees reducing our ability to use stock option grants to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel. Currency exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business, could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Our Global IT Services and Products business is approximately 69% of our revenues. Revenues from this business are derived in major currencies of the world while a significant portion of its costs is in Indian rupees. The exchange rate between the rupee and major currencies of the world has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. During fiscal 2008, the Indian rupee appreciated significantly against the U.S. Dollars. Appreciation of the rupee against the major currencies of the world can adversely affect our revenues and competitive positioning, and can adversely impact our gross margins. We enter into foreign currency derivative contracts to minimize the impact of currency fluctuations. Volatility in exchange rate movement and/or sustained rupee appreciation will negatively impact our revenue and operating results. A significant portion of our debt is in various foreign currencies. The exchange rate between the rupee and major currencies of the world has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Volatility in exchange rate movement and/or rupee depreciation may negatively impact our operating results. A substantial portion of our revenues is derived from clients based in the U.S. or Europe and from certain specific industries. Economic slowdown in the U.S. or Europe which impacts the economic health of companies in the U.S. or Europe or any particular industry we address would adversely impact our revenues and profitability. We derive approximately 63% of our Global IT Services and Products revenues from United States and 32% of our Global IT Services and Products revenues from Europe. If the United States or the European economy weakens on account of an economic slowdown, our clients may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly, which may in turn lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. The Forrester Global IT 2008 Market Outlook predicts a distinct slowdown of U.S. IT purchases from 6.2% growth in 2007 to 2.8% growth in 2008. Further, any significant decrease in the growth of the industries on which we focus, or a significant consolidation in any such industry, may reduce the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. For instance we derive about 24% of our revenues in Global IT Services and Products from clients in financial services sector. The recent crisis in the mortgage-backed securities markets has impacted companies in the financial services sector, which could result in reduction or postponement of their IT spends and thus may adversely affect our business. 10 Table of Contents Our Global IT Services and Products service revenue depends to a large extent on a small number of clients, and our revenue could decline if we lose a major client. We currently derive, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our Global IT Services and Products revenue from a limited number of corporate clients. The loss of a major client or a significant reduction in the service performed for a major client could result in a reduction of our revenue. Our largest client for the years ended March 31, 2006, March 31, 2007 and March 31, 2008, accounted for 3%, 3% and 3% of our Global IT Services and Products revenue, respectively. For the same periods, our ten largest clients accounted for 27%, 25% and 24 % of our Global IT Services and Products revenue. The volume of work we perform for specific clients may vary from year to year, particularly since we typically are not the sole outside service provider for our clients. Thus, any major client of one year may not provide the same level of revenue in a subsequent year. There are a number of factors, other than our performance, that could cause the loss of a client and that may not be predictable. In certain cases, clients have reduced their spending on IT services due to challenging economic environment and consequently have reduced the volume of business with us. If we were to lose one of our major clients or have significantly lower volume of business with them, our revenue and profitability could be reduced. We continually strive to reduce our dependence on the revenue earned from services rendered to any one client. Restrictions on immigration in the U.S. may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the United States, which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. If U.S. immigration laws change and make it more difficult for us to obtain H-1B and L-1 visas for our employees, our ability to compete for and provide services to our clients in the United States could be impaired. In response to terrorist attacks in the United States, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has increased the level of scrutiny in granting visas and has decreased the number of its grants. These restrictions and any other changes in turn could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. Our employees who work onsite at client facilities or at our facilities in the United States on temporary and extended assignments typically must obtain visas. A majority of our personnel in the United States hold H-1B visas or L-1 visas. An H-1B visa is a temporary work visa, which allows the employee to remain in the United States while he or she remains an employee of the sponsoring firm, and the L-1 visa is an intra-company transfer visa, which only allows the employee to remain in the United States temporarily. Although there is no limit to new L-1 petitions, there is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B petitions that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) may approve in any government fiscal year. The U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services have limited the number of H-1B visas that may be granted from 2005 fiscal year to 65,000 per year, from 195,000 in each of the three years prior to 2004. Although the U.S. government has approved the grant of approximately 20,000 additional H-1B visas, these visas are only available to skilled workers who possess a Master’s or higher degree from educational institutions in the United States. The L-1 and H-1B Visa Reform Act of 2004 further proposes to preclude foreign companies from obtaining L-1 visas for employees with specialized knowledge: (1) if such employees will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another company in the U.S. and the employee will not be controlled and supervised by his employer, or (2) if the placement is essentially an arrangement to provide labor for hire rather than in connection with the employee’s specialized knowledge. The L1 Reforms Act provisions became effective in June 2005. Immigration laws in the United States may also require us to meet certain levels of compensation, and to comply with other legal requirements, including labor certifications, as a condition to obtaining or maintaining work visas for our technology professionals working in the United States. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative changes, as well as to variations in standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. Although we currently have sufficient personnel with valid H-1B visas, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to obtain any or a sufficient number of H-1B visas on the same time schedule as we have previously obtained, or at all. 11 Table of Contents Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business Because we provide services to clients throughout the world, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal rules on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, internal and disclosure control obligations, data privacy and labor relations. Violations of these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients also could result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degree of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to protect our rights. We have approximately 13,000 employees located outside India. We are subject to risks relating to compliance with a variety of national and local laws including multiple tax regimes, labour laws, employee health safety and wages and benefits. We may from time to time be subject to litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former employees individually or as part of class actions, including claims of wrongful terminations, discrimination, misclassification or other violation of labour law or other alleged conduct. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Anti-outsourcing legislation, if adopted, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and impair our ability to service our customers. The issue of companies outsourcing services to organizations operating in other countries is a topic of political discussion in many countries, including the United States which is our largest market. For example, measures aimed at limiting or restricting outsourcing by U.S. companies are under discussion in Congress and in numerous state legislatures to address concerns over the perceived association between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs in the United States. While no substantive anti-outsourcing legislation has been introduced to date, given the ongoing debate over this issue, the introduction of such legislation is possible. It currently appears that, if introduced, such measures are likely to fall within two categories (1) a broadening of restrictions on outsourcing by federal and state government agencies and on government contracts with firms that outsource services directly or indirectly, and (2) measures that impact private industry. Such measures could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and our ability to service our customers could be impaired if any of these measures are introduced or adopted. In addition, from time to time there has been publicity about negative experiences associated with offshore outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data (including reports involving service providers in India). Our current or prospective clients may elect to perform certain services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring services from onshore to offshore providers to avoid negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends toward offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from within the country in which our clients operate. Legislation enacted in certain European jurisdictions and any future legislation in Europe, Japan or any other country in which we have clients restricting the performance of business process services from an offshore location could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, new legislation recently enacted in the United Kingdom, based on the 1977 EC Acquired Rights Directive that has been adopted in some form by many European Union, or EU countries, provides that if a company outsources all or part of its business to a service provider or changes its current service provider, the affected employees of the company or the previous service provider are entitled to become the employee of the new service provider, generally on the same terms and conditions as their original employment. In addition, dismissal of employees who were employed by the company or the previous service provider immediately prior to that transfer are automatically considered unfair dismissals that entitle such employees to compensation. As a result, in order to avoid unfair dismissal claims we may have to offer, and become liable for, voluntary redundancy payments to the employees of our clients in the United Kingdom and other EU countries who outsource business to us and have adopted similar laws. This legislation may materially affect our ability to obtain new business from companies in the EU and to provide outsourced services to companies in the EU in an effective manner. 12 Table of Contents We focus on high-growth industries, such as networking and communications. Any decrease in demand for technology in such industries may significantly decrease the demand for our services, which may impair our growth and cause our revenue to decline. Approximately 33% of our IT Services and Products business is derived from clients in high growth industries who use our IT services for networking and communications equipment. These industries have experienced periods of above normal growth and periods of contraction. Any significant decrease in the growth of these industries will decrease the demand for our services and could reduce our revenue. Our failure to complete fixed-price, fixed-timeframe contracts on budget and on time may negatively affect our profitability, which could decrease the value of our shareholders’ investment. We offer a portion of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, rather than on a time-and-materials basis. Although we use specified software engineering processes and our past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price, fixed-timeframe projects, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a project, future rates of wage inflation and currency exchange rates, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. Disruptions in telecommunications could harm our service model, which could result in a reduction of our revenue. A significant element of our business strategy is to continue to leverage and expand our software development centers at Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad and Pune in India, as well as overseas. We believe that the use of a strategically located network of software development centers will provide us with cost advantages, the ability to attract highly skilled personnel in various regions of the country and the world, the ability to service clients on a regional and global basis and the ability to provide services to our clients 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Part of our service model is to maintain active voice and data communications between our main offices in Bangalore, our clients’ offices, and our other software development and support facilities. Although we maintain redundancy facilities and satellite communications links, any significant loss in our ability to transmit voice and data through satellite and telephone communications could result in a disruption in business, thereby hindering our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to a reduction of our revenue. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or system failures. We often have access to or are required to collect and store confidential client and customer data. Many of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructures and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have invested substantially on construction or expansion of new software development facilities and physical infrastructure during fiscal 2008 in anticipation of growth in our business. The total amount of investment made to purchase property, plant and equipment in fiscal 2008 was Rs. 14,674 million ($ 367 million). Additionally, as of March 31, 2008, we had contractual commitments of approximately Rs. 7,266 million ($ 182 million) related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our software development facilities. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities. These expansions may increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. 13 Table of Contents Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could harm our operating results. Currently, we have software development facilities in eight countries around the world. The majority of our software development facilities are located in India. We intend to establish new development facilities in Southeast Asia and Europe. We have not yet made substantial contractual commitments to establish any new facilities and we cannot assure you that we will not significantly alter our proposed expansion plans. Because of our limited experience with facilities outside of India, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations in general. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Our international expansion plans may not be successful and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and the industries on which we focus. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet client needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these advances on a timely basis, or, if we do respond, the services or technologies we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Most of our client contracts can typically be terminated without cause and with little or no notice or penalty, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Most of our client contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price, fixed-timeframe basis, can be terminated with or without cause, in as few as ninety days’ notice and without termination-related penalties. Additionally, most of our contracts with clients are typically limited to discrete projects without any commitment to a specific volume of business or future work. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, and there are a number of factors relating to our clients that are outside our control that might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a client, including: • financial difficulties for a client; • a change in strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of IT spending; • a demand for price reductions; and • a change in outsourcing strategy by moving more work to client in-house IT departments or to our competitors. We may engage in future acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures that may harm our performance, dilute our shareholders’ ownership and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. We have acquired and in the future may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets. For example, in July 2007, we acquired 100% of the equity of Unza Holdings Limited and subsidiaries (‘Unza’), a company engaged in the manufacturing and marketing of personal care products in South East Asia. Also in September 2007, we acquired Infocrossing Inc. and its subsidiaries (‘Infocrossing’). Infocrossing is a U.S.-based IT infrastructure management, enterprise application and business process outsourcing services provider. In the future, we may not identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us. We could have difficulty in assimilating the personnel, operations, technology and software of the acquired companies. In addition, the key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. If we make other types of acquisitions, we could have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Changes in competition laws in India and abroad could also impact our acquisition plans. 14 Table of Contents Some of our long-term client contracts contain benchmarking provisions which, if triggered could result in lower contractual revenues and profitability in the future. As the size and complexity of our client engagements increase, our clients may require further benchmarking provisions in our contracts with them. Benchmarking provisions allow a customer in certain circumstances to request a benchmark study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing our pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services to that of an agreed upon list of other service providers for comparable services. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to reduce the pricing for future services to be performed under the balance of the contract, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by system failures, which could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client’s system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, we cannot be assured that such limitations on liability will be enforceable in all cases, or that they will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or changes in our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, could adversely affect our operating results. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, NYSE rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India rules and Indian stock market listing regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. With respect to our Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2008, our management has performed an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. We have determined that the internal controls are effective. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with their performance of duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies and International Operations generally. We are incorporated in India, and a substantial portion of our assets and our employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by political, social and economic developments affecting India, Government of India policies, including taxation and foreign investment policies, Government currency exchange control, as well as changes in exchange rates and interest rates. 15 Table of Contents Wages in India have historically been lower than wages in the United States and Europe, which has been one of our competitive advantages. Wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may reduce our profit margins. Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, increase in proportion of employees with lower experience, or source talent from other low cost locations, like Eastern Europe, China or South-East Asia; wage increases in the long term may reduce our profit margins. We would realize lower tax benefits if the special tax holiday scheme for units set up in special economic zones is substantially modified The Government of India introduced a separate tax holiday scheme for units set up in special economic zones. Under this scheme, units in designated special economic zones which began providing services on or after April 1, 2005 will be eligible for a deduction of 100 percent of profits or gains derived from the export of services for the first five years from commencement of provision of services and 50 percent of such profits or gains for a further five years. Recently there have been demands by legislators and various political parties in India that the Government of India should actively regulate the development of special economic zones by private entities. There have been demands to impose strict conditions which need to be complied with before an economic zone developed by a private entity is designated as special economic zone. If such regulations or conditions are imposed it would adversely impact our ability to set up new units in such designated special economic zones and avail ourselves of tax benefits. Our net income would decrease if the Government of India imposes additional taxes or withdraws or reduces tax benefits or other incentives Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under Indian tax laws. As a result of these incentives, our operations have not been subject to significant Indian tax liabilities. These tax incentives currently include a tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our Global IT Services and Products business operated from specially designated “Software Technology Parks” and “Special Economic Zones” in India and an income tax deduction of 100% for profits derived from exporting information technology services. As a result, a substantial portion of our pre-tax income has not been subject to significant tax in India in recent years. The Finance Act, 2000 phases out the 10-year tax holiday available to Companies that export software from specially designated software technology parks in India, or STPs, such that it is available only until the earlier of fiscal year 2009 or 10 years after the commencement of a Company’s undertaking. On May 10, 2008, the Finance Minister of India announced that the Government of India has extended the availability of the 10-year tax holiday by a period of one year such that the tax holiday will be available until the earlier of fiscal year 2010 or 10 years after the commencement of a Company’s undertaking. The Finance Act, 2007 has included income eligible for deductions under sections 10A and 10B of the Indian Income Tax Act (sections that provide tax holiday benefits) in the computation of book profits for the levy of a Minimum Alternative Tax, or MAT. The rate of MAT, effective April 1, 2007, would be 11.33% (including a surcharge and education cess) on our book profits determined after including income eligible for deductions under Sections 10A and 10B of the Indian Income Tax Act. The Income Tax Act provides that the MAT paid over normal tax payable that could be carried forward can be adjusted against our tax liability over the next seven years. Although MAT paid by us can be set off against our future income tax liability, our cash flows could be adversely affected. In the event that the Government of India or the government of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase, reducing our profitability. In the recent years, the Government of India has introduced a tax on various services provided within India including on the maintenance and repair of software. The Government of India has in the Finance Act, 2008, proposed to include services provided in relation to information technology software under the ambit of service tax, if it is in the course or furtherance of the business. Under this tax, service providers are required to pay a tax of 12% (excluding applicable education cess) on the value of services provided to customers. The Government of India may expand the services covered under the ambit of this tax to include various services provided by us. This tax, if expanded, could increase our expenses, and could adversely affect our operating margins and revenues. Although currently there is no material pending or 16 Table of Contents threatened claims against us for service taxes, such claims may be asserted against us in the future. Defending these claims would be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. We are subject to a 15% Branch Profit Tax, or BPT, in the United States to the extent that the after-tax net profits of our United States branch during a fiscal year exceeds the increase in the United States branch net assets, the net profits and net assets being calculated in accordance with the Internal Revenue Code. Based on the net profits of our United States branch for fiscal 2008 and the net assets held as of March 31, 2008 and March 31, 2007, we are not currently subject to BPT. In the event that BPT is triggered, then such after-tax net profits not represented by an increase in net assets would be treated as a deemed distribution of accumulated profits and we would be liable to pay additional taxes on all such deemed distributions, thereby increasing our income tax expenses and affecting our profits negatively. We operate in jurisdictions that impose transfer pricing and other tax-related regulations on us, and any failure to comply could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with various transfer pricing regulations in India and other countries. Failure to comply with such regulations may impact our effective tax rates and consequently affect our net margins. Additionally, we operate in several countries and our failure to comply with the local tax regime may result in additional taxes, penalties and enforcement actions from such authorities. In the event that we do not properly comply with transfer pricing and tax-related regulations, our profitability may be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 7, 2005 in London, the attacks of July 11, 2006 in Mumbai, the attacks of June 30, 2007 in Glasgow and other acts of violence or war, such as the continuing conflict in Iraq, have the potential to have a direct impact on our clients. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the United States or Europe, our business may be significantly impacted, as the majority of our revenues are derived from clients located in the United States and Europe. In addition, such attacks may make travel more difficult, may make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of our technology professionals who are required to work in the United States or Europe, and may effectively curtail our ability to deliver our services to our clients. Such obstacles to business may increase our expenses and negatively affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, any attacks in India could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our clients, and could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our clients or potential clients to choose other vendors for the services we provide. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could also delay, postpone or cancel our clients’ decisions to use our services. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by any such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses and be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. In addition if there is a major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses, or sustained business interruption and/or loss which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of products or services from us. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster in the markets in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. In recent years there have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan that have occurred in the region of Kashmir and along the India-Pakistan border. The potential for hostilities between the two countries are high due to terrorist incidents in India and the aggravated geopolitical situation in the region. Both countries have initiated active measures to reduce hostilities. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could influence the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult and such political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve higher degrees of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. 17 Table of Contents Political instability in the Indian Government could delay the liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India in general, which could in return impact our financial results and prospects. Since 1991, successive Indian Governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian Central and State Governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. The last general elections were held in May 2004. The ruling coalition Government, which has over the last several years pushed significant economic reforms, was voted out of power and a new coalition Government has come to the helm. The current Government has announced policies and taken initiatives that support the continued economic liberalization policies that had been pursued by the previous Government. Although we believe that the process of economic liberalization will continue, the rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. For instance in April 2007, the Government of India announced a number of changes in its policy relating to the Special Economic Zones (‘SEZ’s’) including specifying a cap on land available for SEZ’s. The Government is also considering making changes in its SEZ policy. We currently have several facilities operating within SEZ’s and any adverse change in policy relating to SEZ’s could affect our profitability. Indian law limits our ability to raise capital outside India and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which could prevent us from operating our business or entering into a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Indian law constrains our ability to raise capital outside India through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. Generally, any foreign investment in, or an acquisition of, an Indian company requires approval from relevant Government authorities in India, including the Reserve Bank of India. However, subject to certain exceptions, the Government of India currently does not require prior approvals for IT companies like us. If we are required to seek the approval of the Government of India and the Government of India does not approve the investment or implements a limit on the foreign equity ownership of IT companies, our ability to seek and obtain additional equity investment by foreign investors will be limited. In addition, these restrictions, if applied to us, may prevent us from entering into a transaction, such as an acquisition by a non-Indian company, which would otherwise be beneficial for our company and the holders of our equity shares and ADSs. Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India depends on the approval of the Government of India. Our failure to obtain approval from the Government of India for acquisition of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our revenue. The Ministry of Finance of the Government of India and/or the Reserve Bank of India must approve our acquisition of any company organized outside of India or grant general or special permission for such acquisition. The Reserve Bank of India permits acquisitions of companies organized outside of India by an Indian party without approval in the following circumstances: • if the transaction consideration is paid in cash, up to 400% of the networth of the acquiring Company; • Acquisition is funded with cash from the acquiring company’s existing foreign currency accounts or with cash proceeds from the issue of ADRs/GDRs; or • if the transaction consideration is paid in stock (i.e., by issue of ADRs/GDRs), up to ten times the acquiring company’s previous fiscal year’s export earnings. We cannot assure you that any required approval from the Reserve Bank of India and or the Ministry of Finance or any other Government agency can be obtained. Our failure to obtain such approvals from the Government of India for acquisitions of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our revenue. 18 Table of Contents It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us, the selling shareholders or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of India and many of our directors and executive officers, reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of many of these persons are located outside the United States. As a result, you may be unable to effect service of process upon us outside India or upon such persons outside their jurisdiction of residence. In addition, you may be unable to enforce against us in courts outside of India, or against these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, judgments obtained in courts of the United States, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our Indian counsel that the United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments (other than arbitration awards) in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, would not be enforceable in India. However, the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered may bring a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the United States. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce foreign judgments if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any amount recovered. The laws of India do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may result in development of technology, products or services which compete with our products. We may also be subject to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. However, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our products, services or proprietary information. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenue and increase our expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defending against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. Although we believe that our intellectual property rights do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any other party, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications or products that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to the ADSs Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and the ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our equity shares, including sales by insiders, in the public market, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our equity shares or our ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares, or the availability of our equity shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. 19 Table of Contents An active or liquid trading market for our ADSs is not assured. An active, liquid trading market for our ADSs may not be maintained in the long term. Loss of liquidity could increase the price volatility of our ADSs. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares may be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and then repatriate that foreign currency from India, he or she will have to obtain an additional Reserve Bank of India approval for each transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other Government agency may not be obtained on terms which are favorable to a non-resident investor or at all. Investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record, and the holder of record will be required to disclose the details of the beneficial owner. Any investor who fails to comply with this requirement may be liable for a fine of up to Rs. 1,000 for each day such failure continues. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the equity shares. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. Under the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the Depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any; the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in us would be reduced. ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the Depositary will mail to you any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us along with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions from you in time, relating to matters that have been forwarded to you, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by your ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that you will receive voting materials in time to enable you to return voting instructions to the Depositary in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our equity shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, you may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. 