Risk Factors—Risks Related to our 75 Table of Contents Operations—The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in the loss of a significant amount of our revenues.” Recent news reports suggest that it is unlikely that Mexicana will recommence operations and because of this, it is unlikely that we will recuperate the Ps. 128.0 million that we have reserved for losses in connection with the Mexicana insolvency. Economic Downturn and Recovery The U.S. and Mexican economies are currently recovering from a recession. In the third and fourth quarters of 2008, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the U.S. gross domestic product decreased at annualized rates of 0.5% and 6.2%, respectively. In 2009 the U.S. gross domestic product continued to decline at an annualized rate of 2.4%. In 2010 the U.S. economy began to recover, with gross domestic product increasing at an annualized rate of 2.9%. In 2011 the U.S. gross domestic product increased at an annualized rate of 1.7%. Likewise, according to the Mexican National Statistical, Geographic and Information Institute (INEGI), the Mexican gross domestic product decreased at an annualized rate of 1.6% during the fourth quarter of 2008, and an additional 6.5% in 2009. The Mexican gross domestic product increased 5.5% in 2010 and 3.7% in 2011. The air travel industry, and as a result, our results of operations, are substantially influenced by economic conditions in Mexico and the United States. In 2010 and 2011, approximately 63.1% and 61.4% respectively, of the international passengers in our airports arrived or departed on flights originating in or departing to the United States and approximately 37.1% and 35.3% of our revenues in 2010 and 2011, respectively, were derived from passengers charges imposed on passengers departing from or arriving in the United States. Similarly, in 2010 and 2011, approximately 41.2% and 42.5%, respectively, of our passengers traveled on domestic flights, and approximately 14.0% and 15.3% of our revenues in 2010 and 2011, respectively, were derived from domestic passenger charges. We believe that our results of operations were affected differently by the U.S. and Mexican recessions. Many of the passengers traveling through our airports to or from the United States are traveling to vacation destinations such as Cancún, Cozumel or the Mayan Riviera. For many U.S. travelers, we believe these destinations are more economical than similar destinations in Florida or the Caribbean. As a result, we believe that during the recession, passenger traffic to and from the United States may have partially benefited from a substitution effect, whereby some of the passengers who were deferring or eliminating travel because of global economic conditions were replaced by passengers who choose to travel to destinations served by our airports instead of other, less economical destinations. Nevertheless, we believe that the severity of the U.S. economic recession led to overall reduced spending on vacation travel, and adversely impacted international passenger traffic levels at our airports and our results of operations. Because of the perception of Cancún, Cozumel and the Mayan Riviera as more economical vacation destinations, we believe that our airports have been and are well-placed to take advantage of the continuing economic recovery. In 2010, our international passenger traffic increased 11.7%, including increases of 12.3% at Cancún airport and 4.6% at Cozumel airport. In 2011, our international passenger traffic increased 2.6%, including increases of 3.0% at Cancún airport. We expect that passenger traffic will continue to increase while the economic recovery in the United States continues. However, we cannot predict how economic conditions in the United States may develop in the future or how these conditions will affect tourism and travel decisions. In addition, whether destinations served by our airports will be viewed as 76 Table of Contents adequate substitutes for other tourist destinations depends on a number of factors, including the perceived attractiveness, affordability and accessibility of Cancún, Cozumel and the Mayan Riviera as desirable vacation destinations. We are unable to control many of these factors and therefore we cannot assure you that this substitution effect would occur again if the United States were to experience another recession. In Mexico, the recession resulted in an overall decrease in levels of domestic passenger traffic as compared to historical passenger traffic levels. In 2010, annual domestic passenger traffic increased just 2.3% from 2009. In 2011, domestic passenger traffic increased 8.2% from 2010. Among Mexican leisure travelers, destinations served by our airports are generally not perceived as economical vacation destinations, and as a result, they have not benefited, and are unlikely to benefit in the future, from the substitution effect that we believe has occurred with respect to passengers traveling to and from the United States. In addition, a portion of our domestic passengers are business travelers, whose demand for travel was adversely affected by the recession. In particular, the recession has affected passenger traffic levels to and from Toluca International Airport, which is located near Mexico City, and which is largely served by low-cost airlines that cater to domestic leisure travels, which we believe tend to be sensitive to both changes in the cost of air travel and economic conditions. Approximately 9.5% and 4.8% of passengers traveling through our airports in 2010 and 2011 departed or arrived from Toluca. As the Mexican economy begins to recover, we have noticed an uptick in domestic travel to certain destinations, such as Cozumel, Huatulco and Villahermosa, with increases in passenger traffic of 64.1%, 25.1% and 18.1%, respectively, in 2011, as well as to Cancún (8.7% and 9.3% increase in passenger traffic in 2010 and 2011, respectively) and Mérida (6.7% and 9.7% increase in passenger traffic in 2010 and 2011, respectively). However, our other airports have continued to experience no growth or decreases in passenger traffic. Mayan Riviera Airport Bidding Process The Mexican government, acting through the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, has announced its intention to grant a concession for the construction, operation and management of an international airport in the Mayan Rivera in the state of Quintana Roo. This airport would be located in Tulum, approximately 101 kilometers from our airport in Cancún and could adversely affect our passenger traffic. The bidding process for the concession for the airport was announced on May 11, 2010. On January 31, 2011, the Federal Competition Commission (COFECO) issued an unfavorable opinion regarding our participation in the bidding process. We disagreed with the decision and the views expressed by COFECO and on March 11, 2011, we initiated legal proceedings pursuant to established Mexican legislation to defend our right to participate in the bidding process. These legal proceedings remain pending. On May 20, 2011, we were notified by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, through the Mexican Civil Aviation Authority, that the international public bidding process was cancelled because none of the technical bids presented by the participants complied with the requirements established in the bidding documents. If the bidding process is restarted, we may again be denied the right to participate if our legal proceedings are not resolved in our favor. Although we cannot predict if this will go forward, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation has committed to revise passenger traffic level projections for Cancún Airport and to adjust our Master Development Plan and maximum rate accordingly within three months of the granting of a concession for the Riviera Maya airport. 77 Table of Contents Adoption of INIF 17 In 2010, we adopted INIF 17, “Service Concession Contracts,” which was issued by the Consejo Mexicano para la Investigación y Desarrollo de Normas de Información Financiera, A.C. (Mexican Financial Reporting Standards Board, or “CINIF”). This new standard provides clarification on the accounting treatment to be applied for service concession contracts for services that are considered public in nature. The following are the principal effects of INIF 17 on our results of operations and balance sheet: · New category of revenues and cost. Under INIF 17, an operator of a service concession that is required to make capital improvements to concessioned assets, such as us, is deemed to provide construction or upgrade services. As a result, the operator is required to account for the revenues and expenses relating to those services. In our case, because we hire a third party to provide construction and upgrade services, our revenues relating to construction or upgrade services are equal to our expenses for those services. Revenues related to construction and upgrade services are presented in a new category of revenues called “Construction services” and expenses related to construction and upgrade services are presented in a new category of expenses called “Costs of construction.” · Intangible assets and change in amortization rates. Under INIF 17, all infrastructure to which an operator of a service concession is given access by the grantor of the concession service agreement and the upgrades to that infrastructure made by the operator are recognized as an intangible asset. These assets are amortized over the concession period. As a result, we are required to classify all concessioned fixed assets and subsequent capital expenditures under “Airport Concessions, net” and to modify amortization rates in accordance with the remaining period of the concession, using the straight line method for those fixed assets constructed or acquired in the past. Previously we amortized fixed assets based on the estimated remaining useful life of the particular asset. The effects of INIF 17 are reflected in our financial statements as of and for the period beginning December 31, 2010. Retroactive restatement of prior period financial statements was not permitted. ASUR to adopt IFRS beginning in 2012 Pursuant to Mexican securities regulations, as of January 1, 2012, all Mexican publicly-reporting companies are required to prepare their financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, or IFRS. We adopted IFRS as our accounting standard for the fiscal year beginning on January 1, 2012. See “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Critical Accounting Policies—Adoption of IFRS.” Master Development Plans and Maximum Rates The Ministry of Communications and Transportation approved new five-year master development plans and maximum rates for each of our airports on March 31, 2009. The master 78 Table of Contents development plans for each airport provide for committed investments at that airport for each calendar year through 2013, and indicative investments at that airport for each calendar year from 2014 through 2023. In addition, in connection with the approval of our master development plan, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation also approved the maximum rates we are allowed to charge per workload unit (which is equal to one terminal passenger or 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cargo) for regulated services. For more details on the newly approved master development plans and maximum rates, see “—Master Development Plans” and “—Price Regulation — Current Maximum Rates” in “