RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Hurricanes, epidemics and other natural disasters have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so again in the future. The recent outbreak of Influenza A/H1N1 in Mexico has, and will continue to adversely affect our business. Since late April 2009, Mexico has been affected by an outbreak of Influenza A/H1N1. According to the Mexican Secretary of Health, Influenza A/H1N1 has resulted in the deaths of 83 people in Mexico, with a total of 4,541 reported cases as of May 25, 2009. As a result of the outbreak and the subsequent transmission to the United States, a number of countries, including the United States, Great Britain and France, as well as the European Union advised against non-essential travel to Mexico, although these advisories had been lifted as of May 20, 2009. At least four countries (Argentina, Cuba, Ecuador and Peru) ordered restrictions on flights to Mexico, although as of June 1, 2009, flights had resumed from these countries. In addition, a larger number of countries have imposed restrictions on travelers and cargo arriving from Mexico. For more information on the Influenza A/H1N1, please see “Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Recent Developments – Influenza A/H1N1.” These travel restrictions have resulted in a significant reduction in international passenger traffic to and from our airports since late April 2009. Furthermore, the Mexican government ordered the cancellation of all public events and the closure of most museums and other tourist attractions from April 24 to May 5, 2009. As a result of this and other regulations imposed by the government, domestic travel within Mexico, and therefore, our domestic passenger traffic, declined substantially during this period. During the last week of April and the first week of May 2009, international and domestic passenger traffic levels declined by 31.7% and 39.9%, respectively, when compared to the last week of April and the first week of May 2008. As a result of these declines in international and domestic passenger traffic to and from our airports, our results of operations have been adversely affected, and we expect that they may continue to be adversely affected until the scope of the Influenza A/H1N1 outbreak is reduced and the public perceives that it is again safe to travel to the destinations served by our airports. We have experienced hurricanes in the past, and may experience hurricanes in the future. The southeast region of Mexico, like other Caribbean destinations, experiences hurricanes, particularly during the third quarter of each year. Portions of the southeast region also experience earthquakes from time to time. Natural disasters may impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our operations and/or adversely affect the destinations served by our airports. Any of these events could reduce our passenger traffic volume. The occurrence of natural disasters in the destinations we serve has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Some experts believe that climate change due to global warming could increase the frequency and severity of hurricanes in the future. We have insured the physical facilities at our airports against damage caused by natural disasters, accidents or other similar events, but do not have insurance covering losses due to resulting business interruption. Moreover, should losses occur, there can be no assurance that losses caused by damages to the physical facilities will not exceed the pre-established limits on the policies. 7 Table of Contents On October 21, 2005, Hurricane Wilma struck the Yucatan Peninsula, causing severe damage to the infrastructure of the Cancún and Cozumel airports and to our administrative office building in Cancún. Cancún and Cozumel airports were closed for approximately 62 hours and 42 hours, respectively, and airport operations were disrupted for several weeks thereafter. The hurricane also inflicted extensive damage on the hotel and tourist infrastructure in Cancún, the Mayan Riviera region and Cozumel, which led to sharply reduced air passenger traffic at our airports, especially in the fourth quarter of 2005 and during the first half of 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our passenger traffic decreased 33.1%, and revenues and operating income fell 32.6% and 86.5%, respectively, relative to the same period in 2004, reflecting the decline in passenger traffic. Tourism in Cancún and the Mayan Riviera has by now largely recovered from Hurricane Wilma, and tourism in Cozumel continues to recover. Other hurricanes, such as Hurricane Dean in August 2007, Hurricane Emily in July 2005 and Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, have also affected our operations. Our business could be adversely affected by a downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2008, 64.4% of the international passengers served by our airports arrived or departed on flights originating in or departing to the United States. Thus, our business is dependent on the condition of the U.S. economy, and is particularly influenced by trends in the United States relating to leisure travel, consumer spending and international tourism. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. The U.S. economy has recently experienced and continues to experience a recession that may negatively affect our results of operations. For example, in the third and fourth quarters of 2008, according to the U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, the U.S. gross domestic product decreased at annualized rates of 0.5% and 6.2%, respectively, and in the first quarter of 2009, U.S. gross domestic product decreased at an annualized rate of 5.7%. If this recession becomes a prolonged economic crisis, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Fluctuations in international petroleum prices could reduce demand for air travel. International prices of fuel, which represents a significant cost for airlines using our airports, have experienced significant volatility over the past year. Most of our airline customers use kerosene-based jet fuel, the price of which is based upon the U.S. spot prices for that fuel plus the cost of transportation to each airport. The U.S. gulf coast spot price for kerosene-based jet fuel was $2.74 per gallon on January 2, 2008, peaked at $4.81 per gallon on September 12, 2008, reached a low point at $1.21 per gallon on December 10, 2008, and ended the year at $1.32 per gallon on December 31, 2008, according to the Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy. The price of fuel may be subject to further fluctuations resulting from a reduction or increase in output of petroleum, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries, other market forces, a general increase in international hostilities, or any future terrorist attacks. In addition, a number of airlines have engaged in hedging strategies with respect to fuel prices that, because of the recent decline in oil prices, have resulted in the airlines incurring significant derivative-related liabilities. Such increases in airlines’ costs may have resulted in higher airline ticket prices and may decrease demand for air travel generally, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 8 Table of Contents The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. The global airline industry has recently experienced and continues to experience significant financial difficulties, marked by the filing for bankruptcy protection of several carriers and recent warnings regarding industry profitability, largely as a result of higher oil prices. On March 24, 2009, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) revised its 2009 financial forecast for the air transport industry downwards to a loss of U.S.$4.7 billion from its prior forecast of a loss of U.S.$2.5 billion. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not continue to generate comparable portions of our revenue from our key customers, including Grupo Mexicana, which includes Click (formerly known as Aerovías Caribe) (which accounted for 5.2% of our revenues in 2008) and Mexicana (which accounted for 5.0% of our revenues in 2008), American Airlines (which accounted for 4.7% of our revenues in 2008), Continental Airlines (which accounted for 4.5% of our revenues in 2008) and Aeromexico (4.0% of our revenues in 2008). We do not have contracts with any airlines that obligate them to continue providing service to our airports and we can offer no assurance that competing airlines would seek to increase their flight schedules if any of our key customers reduced their use of our airports. We expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of airlines in the foreseeable future. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not continue to generate comparable portions of our revenue from our key customers. Furthermore, passenger charges, which accounted for 51.5% of our revenues in 2008, are collected by airlines from passengers on our behalf and are later paid to us 30 to 115 days following the date of each flight. If any of our key customers were to become insolvent or seek bankruptcy protection, we would be an unsecured creditor with respect to any unpaid passenger charges, and we might not be able to recover the full amount of such charges In addition, Mexican law prohibits an international airline from transporting passengers from one Mexican location to another (unless the flight originated outside Mexico), which limits the number of airlines providing domestic service in Mexico. Accordingly, we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from domestic travel from a limited number of airlines. 9 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from Cancún International Airport. In 2008, Ps. 2,443.3 million or 77.1% respectively, of our revenues were derived from operations at Cancún International Airport. During 2007 and 2008, Cancún International Airport represented 69.8% and 71.2%, respectively, of our passenger traffic and 43.5% and 44.9%, respectively, of our air traffic movements. The desirability of Cancún as a tourist destination and the level of tourism to the area are dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. For example, in 2008, some newspapers reported an increase in the level of drug-related violence in Mexico. Although these reports generally indicated that this increase in violence affects mostly cities along the U.S.-Mexico border, and is generally not directed at tourists, the reports may have created a perception that Mexico has become a less safe and secure place to visit. In turn, we believe that it is possible that this perception has adversely affected the desirability of Cancún as a tourist destination. We cannot assure you that tourism in Cancún will not decline in the future. Any event or condition affecting Cancún International Airport or the areas that it serves could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks had a severe impact on the international air travel industry and adversely affected our business. Similar events may do so again in the future. The events of September 11, 2001 resulted in a significant decline in passenger traffic worldwide and future terrorist attacks could result in similar declines. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. In Mexico, airline and passenger traffic decreased substantially, although the decrease was less severe than in the United States. Our airports experienced a significant decline in passenger traffic following September 11, 2001. Any future terrorists attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Security enhancements have resulted in increased costs and may expose us to greater liability. The air travel business is susceptible to increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance and fuel costs. Following the events of September 11, we reinforced security at our airports. For a description of the security measures that we adopted, see “