Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on PWI’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal factors are described below. Risks related to our business and our industry We face substantial competition from other securities and commodities processing and infrastructure firms, which could harm our financial performance and reduce our market share. The market for securities and futures processing infrastructure products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We compete with a number of firms that provide similar products and services to our market. Our competitors include Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P.; Pershing LLC, a member of BNY Securities Group; National Financial Services LLC, a Fidelity Investments Company; Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated and Bear, Stearns & Co. Inc. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we possess. Some of our competitors also offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and more extensive client bases than ours. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to 20 Table of Contents compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Increased competition has contributed to the decline in net clearing revenue per transaction that we have experienced in recent years and may continue to create downward pressure on our net clearing revenue per transaction. We believe that these pressures will have similar effects on our ability to generate a favorable net clearing revenue per transaction in our new futures clearing operations. In the past, we have responded to the decline in net clearing revenue by reducing our expenses, but if the decline continues, we may be unable to reduce our expenses at a comparable rate. Our failure to reduce expenses comparably would reduce our profit margins. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our clearing revenues. Our ten largest clients accounted for 31.8% of our total revenues at December 31, 2006. The loss of even a small number of these clients at any one time could cause our revenues to decline substantially. Our clearing contracts are generally fixed term contracts of two to three years, which allow the correspondent to cancel our services upon providing us with 45 days of notice, in most cases after the expiration of the fixed term. Our clearing contracts with these correspondents can also terminate automatically if we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. In past periods, we have experienced temporary declines in our revenues when large clients have switched to other service providers. For example, our largest U.S. clearing correspondent in 2004 terminated its relationship with us in 2005. As a result, although this loss was partially offset by revenue from new correspondents, in 2005 clearing revenues decreased by $4.0 million compared to 2004. See “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — Comparison of years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 — Revenues.” There can be no assurance that our largest clients will continue to use our products and services. Our clearing operations could expose us to legal liability for errors in performing clearing functions and improper activities of our correspondents. Any intentional failure or negligence in properly performing our clearing functions or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their customers could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities as well as actions in tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. Any litigation that arises as a result of our clearing operations could harm our reputation and cause us to incur substantial expenses associated with litigation and damage awards that could exceed our liability insurance by unknown but significant amounts. In the normal course of business, we purchase and sell securities as both principal and agent. If another party to the transaction fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, we may incur a loss if the market value of the security is different from the contract amount of the transaction. In the past, clearing firms in the U.S. have been held liable for failing to take action upon the receipt of customer complaints, failing to know about the suspicious activities of correspondents or their customers under circumstances where they should have known, and even aiding and abetting, or causing, the improper activities of their correspondents. We cannot assure you that our procedures will be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents or protect us from liability for the acts of our correspondents under current laws and regulations or that securities industry regulators will not enact more restrictive laws or regulations or change their interpretations of current laws and regulations. If we fail to implement proper procedures or fail to adapt our existing procedures to new or more restrictive regulations, we may be subject to liability that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. Sharp decreases in short-term interest rates would negatively impact the profitability of our margin lending business. The profitability of our margin lending activities depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of customer cash and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings. While they are not linearly connected, if short-term interest rates fall, we generally expect 21 Table of Contents to receive a smaller gross interest spread, causing the profitability of our margin lending and other interest-sensitive revenue sources to decline. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in the gross spread we earn. This is most significant when the federal funds rate is on the low end of its historical range. Interest rates in Canada and Europe are also subject to fluctuations based on governmental policies and economic factors and these fluctuations could also affect the profitability of our margin lending operations in these markets. Our margin lending business subjects us to credit risks and if we are unable to liquidate an investor’s securities when the margin collateral becomes insufficient, the profitability of our business may suffer. We provide margin loans to investors; therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, our receivables from customers and correspondents were $1.4 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, which predominantly reflected margin loans. Our credit risks include the risk that the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of an investor’s indebtedness. This risk is especially great when the market is rapidly declining. Agreements with margin account investors permit us to liquidate their securities with or without prior notice in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient. Despite those agreements and our house policies with respect to margin, which may be more restrictive than is required under applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to liquidate the customers’ securities for various reasons including the fact that: • the pledged securities may not be actively traded; • there may be an undue concentration of securities pledged; or • a stop order may be issued with regard to pledged securities. In the U.S., our margin lending is subject to the margin rules of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve and the National Association of Securities Dealers (NASD), whose rules generally permit margin loans of up to 50% of the value of the securities collateralizing the margin account loan at the time the loan is made, subject to requirements that the customer deposit additional securities or cash in its accounts so that the customers’ equity in the account is at least 25% of the value of the securities in the account. We are also subject to regulations in Canada and the U.K. with regard to our margin lending activities in those markets. In certain circumstances, we may provide a higher degree of margin leverage to our correspondents with respect to their proprietary trading businesses than otherwise permitted by the margin rules described above based on an exemption for correspondents that purchase a class of preferred stock of PFSI. As a result, we may increase the risks otherwise associated with margin lending with respect to these correspondents. Some of our directors and officers and their affiliates have from time to time maintained brokerage accounts with us directly or indirectly through our correspondents, and we may extend margin credit to these individuals or entities through these accounts. We rely, in part, on third parties to provide and support the software and systems we use to provide our services. Any interruption or cessation of service by these third parties could harm our business. We have contracted with SunGard Data Systems to provide a major portion of the software and systems necessary for our execution and clearing services. Our current agreement with SunGard has an expiration date of July 25, 2012 and can be terminated by SunGard upon written notice in the event that we breach the agreement. In the past, we have experienced occasional hardware and software outages with SunGard. Any major interruption in our ability to process our transactions through SunGard would harm our relationships with our clients and impact our growth. We also license many additional generally available software packages. Failures in any of these applications could also harm our business operations. 22 Table of Contents We rely on SunGard and other third parties to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. If, in the future, enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems cannot be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to redesign our proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. The inability of third parties to supply us with software or systems on a reliable, timely basis could harm relationships with our clients and our ability to achieve our projected level of growth. Our products and services, and the products and services provided to us by third parties, may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, and any infringement claims could require us to incur substantial costs, distract our management or prevent us from conducting our business. Although we attempt to avoid infringing upon known proprietary rights of third parties, we are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights. If we infringe upon the rights of third parties, we may be unable to obtain licenses to use those rights on commercially reasonable terms. Additionally, third parties that provide us with products and services that are integral to the conduct of our business may be subject to similar allegations, which could prevent them from providing these products and services. In either of these events, we would need to undertake substantial reengineering to continue offering our services and may not be successful. In addition, any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from conducting our business. See also “Business — Intellectual property and other proprietary rights.” If our clients’ account information is misappropriated, we may be held liable or suffer harm to our reputation. We employ what we believe to be a high degree of care in protecting our clients’ confidential information. To effect secure transmissions of confidential information over computer systems and the Internet, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. If third parties were able to penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our clients’ personal or account information, or we were to otherwise release any such confidential information without our clients’ permission, unintentionally or otherwise, we could be subject to liability arising from claims related to impersonation or similar fraud claims or other misuse of personal information, as well as suffer harm to our reputation. We cannot assure you that our efforts to maintain the confidentiality of our clients’ account information will be successful. Internet security concerns have been a barrier to the acceptance of online trading, and any well-publicized compromise of security could hinder the growth of the online brokerage industry. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect clients’ transactions and account data. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of network or Internet security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. Any slowdown or failure of our computer or communications systems could subject us to liability for losses suffered by our clients or their customers. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and to receive and process securities and futures orders through a variety of electronic media. Our principal computer equipment and software systems are maintained at various locations in Texas, New York, Toronto, Montreal and London. Our systems or any other systems in the trading process could slow down significantly or fail for a variety of reasons, including: • computer viruses or undetected errors in our internal software programs or computer systems; • our inability to rapidly monitor all intraday trading activity; 23 Table of Contents • our inability to effectively resolve any errors in our internal software programs or computer systems once they are detected; • heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times; or • power or telecommunications failure, fire, tornado or any other natural disaster. While we monitor system loads and performance and implement system upgrades to handle predicted increases in trading volume and volatility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict future volume increases or volatility or that our systems will be able to accommodate these volume increases or volatility without failure or degradation. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems, communications systems or any other systems in the clearing or trading processes could cause the customers of our clients to suffer delays in the execution of their trades. These delays could cause substantial losses for our clients or their customers and could subject us to claims and losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence, damage our reputation, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenues or divert our technical resources. If our operational systems and infrastructure fail to keep pace with our anticipated growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, client dissatisfaction and lost revenue opportunities. We have experienced significant growth in our client base, business activities and the number of our employees. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. We believe that our current and anticipated future growth will require the implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems, the training of personnel to operate these systems and the expansion and upgrade of core technologies. While many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict the timing or rate of this growth or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure on a timely basis. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has increased. We have implemented and continue to implement formal compliance procedures to respond to these changes and the impact of our growth. Our future operating results will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, and communication and information management; • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; and • to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. Our growth has required and will continue to require increased investments in management personnel and systems, financial systems and controls and office facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with these investments would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or continue to manage our recent or future growth successfully. If we fail to manage our growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, dissatisfaction among our client base and lost revenue opportunities. If we are unable to respond to the demands of our existing and new clients, our ability to reach our revenue goals or maintain our profitability could be diminished. The global securities and futures industry is characterized by increasingly complex infrastructures and products, new and changing business models and rapid technological changes. Our clients’ needs and demands for our products and services evolve with these changes. For example, an increasing number of our clients are from market segments including hedge funds, algorithmic trades and direct access customers who demand increasingly sophisticated products. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to our clients’ demands for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards and to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. 24 Table of Contents Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services as their operations grow. We market our clearing services to our existing correspondents on the strength of our ability to process transactions and perform related back-office functions at a lower cost than the correspondents could perform these functions themselves. As our correspondents’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to in the securities industry as “self clearing.” As the transaction volume of a correspondent grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may be eventually offset by the elimination of per-transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing firms to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. Our ability to sell our services and grow our business could be significantly impaired if we lose the services of key personnel. Our business is highly dependent on a small number of key executive officers. Our three member Executive Committee, consisting of Roger J. Engemoen, Jr., Philip A. Pendergraft and Daniel P. Son, have an average of over 31 years of industry experience and each member has served as an executive officer and/or director of Penson or its predecessor entities since 1995. We have entered into compensation agreements with various personnel, but we do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. The loss of the services of any of the key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could harm our business. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the securities and futures processing infrastructure industry is intense, and there is no assurance that we would be able to recruit management personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. We may face risks associated with potential future acquisitions that could reduce our profitability or hinder our ability to successfully expand our operations. Over the past few years, our business strategy has included engaging in significant acquisitions which have facilitated our ability to provide technology infrastructure and establish a presence in international markets. We have completed seven acquisitions since 2000, including two acquisitions in 2000 by which we commenced our Canadian and U.K. operations. In addition, we announced in November 2006 agreements to purchase two additional businesses, the first of which closed in November 2006 (subject to the satisfaction of certain subsequent conditions set forth in the acquisition documents) and the second of which closed in February 2007. In the future, we plan to acquire additional businesses or technologies as part of our growth strategy. We are currently in active discussions with various parties, but at this time no potential transaction is probable. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which potentially involve the following risks: • diversion of management’s time and attention to the negotiation of the acquisitions; • difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel; • the need to modify financial and other systems and to add management resources; • assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations and disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution to our existing stockholders due to the issuance of equity securities; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; and • possible accounting charges due to impairment of goodwill or other purchased intangible assets. Failure to manage our acquisitions to avoid these risks could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. 25 Table of Contents Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our credit facility contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay dividends on or make other distributions on or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments, and sell certain assets. In addition, the credit facility contains covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests at all. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders under the credit facility accelerated the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. We recently revised our operational strategy for our U.K. operations, and if it is not successful our financial results or growth prospects may be harmed. In the fall of 2004, we embarked on an aggressive operational plan to roll out additional products and services in the U.K. market. Our operational plan was comprised of the following key components: (a) our provision to U.S. institutional correspondents with access to securities products that trade on the London Stock Exchange, (b) our provision of a “worked order desk” to facilitate the manual and confidential processing of large institutional orders on the London Stock Exchange and certain other market destinations, and (c) our inclusion of additional market destinations in our European order execution hub. Unfortunately, we were not successful at implementing this operational plan, which created larger than expected losses in the U.K. Our lack of success in implementing our plan derived principally from (i) a longer than anticipated time frame for certain of our clients to implement and test technology required to execute orders for new products that are derivatives of securities that trade on the London Stock Exchange, (ii) our inability to attract sufficient institutional order flow for the worked order desk and (iii) delays in implementing technology needed to expand our European order execution hub. Among other things, our plan was impacted by a significant diversion of internal business and technology personnel and resources to resolve operational issues primarily arising from system inefficiencies and personnel errors in using internal and third party software designed to clear and settle trades for the U.K. operations and to support the worked order desk. During 2005, we revised our operational strategy in the U.K., restructured local management and scaled back our expense structure to better correspond with our level of revenues. In particular, we eliminated the worked order desk and certain other personnel involved in our U.K. operations, which, among other things, should result in much lower compensation expense over time. We also engaged outside consultants to facilitate our resolving issues related to our U.K. operations. These consultants have now been terminated. We intend to continue with our plans to provide new products on the London Stock Exchange and a larger number of markets in our European execution hub, although revenues from such projects will take greater time to realize than originally expected. In 2006, we were able to reduce our losses in the U.K. by 79% from a loss of $6.4 million in 2005 to $1.4 million in 2006, but cannot guarantee that we will be able to continue to do so in 2007 and beyond. We may be required to further restructure our operations and take additional charges, and our ability to expand our business in the U.K. may be harmed if we are not able to maintain our trend toward profitability. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in trading volume, market prices, liquidity of securities markets or proprietary trading activity. We generate revenues primarily from transaction processing fees we earn from our clearing operations and interest income from our margin lending activities and interest earned by investing customers’ cash. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, market prices and liquidity of securities markets. Over the past several years the U.S. and foreign securities markets have experienced significant volatility. Sudden sharp or gradual but sustained declines in market values of securities can result in: • reduced trading activity; • illiquid markets; 26 Table of Contents • declines in the market values of securities carried by our customers and correspondents; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; • reduced margin loan balances of investors; and • increases in claims and litigation. The occurrence of any of these events would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our clearing operations and margin lending activities. Certain of our subsidiaries engage in proprietary trading activities. Please see our discussion in “Business — Securities-processing — Proprietary trading.” Historically these activities have accounted for a very small portion of our total revenues and net income. With respect to most of such trading, we endeavor to limit our exposure to markets through, among other means, employing hedging strategies and by limiting the period of time for which we have exposure to markets. However, we are not completely protected against market risk from such trading at any particular point in time and proprietary trading risks could adversely impact operating results in a specific financial period. Our significant non-U.S. operations expose us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our profitability. We are exposed to market risk through commercial and financial operations. Our market risk consists principally of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S., fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the Euro and the Canadian dollar, may materially affect our operating results. We do not typically use financial instruments to hedge our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of our net sales is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period or the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international sales, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. General economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that are beyond our control may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets, which could result in lower revenues from our business operations. Trading volume, market prices and liquidity are affected by general national and international economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that result in changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. These factors include: • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; • currency values and inflation; and • national, state and local taxation levels affecting securities transactions. These factors are beyond our control and may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets. Our largest source of revenues has historically been our revenues from clearing operations, which are largely driven by the volume of trading activities of the customers of our correspondents and proprietary trading by our 27 Table of Contents correspondents. Our margin lending revenues and our technology revenues are also impacted by changes in the trading activities of our correspondents and clients. Accordingly, any significant reduction in activity in the securities markets would likely result in lower revenues from our business operations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: • changes in the proportion of clearing operations revenues and interest income; • our lengthy sales and integration cycle with new correspondents; • the gain or loss of business from a correspondent; • reductions in per-transaction clearing fees; • changes in bad debt expense from margin lending as compared to historical levels; • changes in the rates we charge for margin loans, changes in the rates we pay for cash deposits we hold on behalf of our correspondents and their customers and changes in the rates at which we can invest such cash deposits; • changes in the market price of securities and our ability to manage related risks; • fluctuations in overall market trading volume; • the relative success and/or failure of third party clearing competitors, many of which have increasingly larger resources than we have as a result of recent consolidation in our industry; • the relative success and/or failure of third party technology competitors including, without limitation, competitors to our NEXA business; • our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses; and • the amount and timing of capital expenditures. Our expense structure is based on historical expense levels and the expected levels of demand for our clearing, margin lending and other services. If demand for our services declines, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis in order to sustain our profitability. Due to the foregoing factors, period-to-period comparisons of our historical revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely upon such comparisons as indicators of future performance. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the rates of revenue growth we have experienced in the past, improve our operating results or sustain our profitability on a quarterly basis. Our involvement in futures and options markets subjects us to risks inherent in conducting business in those markets. We principally clear futures and options contracts on behalf of our correspondents, FCMs and their respective customers. Trading in futures and options contracts is generally more highly leveraged than trading in other types of securities. This additional leverage increases the risk associated with trading in futures and options contracts, which in turn raises the risk that a correspondent or customer may not be able to fully repay its creditors, including us, if it experiences losses in its futures and options contract trading business. We have recently acquired the partnership interests of GHCO, which will substantially increase our operations in the futures markets. Because of this increased activity, we will face more exposure to the risks associated with the clearing of futures contracts. We may not be able to hedge our foreign exchange risk. As a dealer for foreign exchange trades, we enter into currency transactions with certain of our institutional clients or other institutions using modeled prices that we determine and seek to hedge our risk by making similar 28 Table of Contents transactions on the various exchanges or electronic communication networks of which we are a participant. While we expect to be able to limit our risk in our transactions with our clients through hedging transactions on exchanges or ECNs or through other counterparty relationships, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into these transactions at prices similar to those which we entered into with our clients. In addition, while we intend to enter into the hedging transactions after we enter into a transaction with our client or the relevant institution, it is possible that currency prices could fluctuate before we are able to enter into such hedging transactions. The securities and futures businesses are highly dependent on certain market centers that may be targets of terrorism. Our business is dependent on exchanges and market centers being able to process trades. Terrorist activities in September 2001 caused the U.S. securities markets to close for four days. This impacted our revenue and profitability for that period of time. If future terrorist incidents cause interruption of market activity, our revenues and profits may be impacted negatively again. Risks related to government regulation All aspects of our business are subject to extensive government regulation. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, and our business may be harmed. The securities industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the NASD, the Commodities Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), various stock exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. Broker-dealers are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including: • sales methods; • trade practices among broker-dealers; • use and safekeeping of investors’ funds and securities; • capital structure; • margin lending; • record keeping; • conduct of directors, officers and employees; and • supervision of investor accounts. Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed non-compliance with these regulations in the future and even for the claimed non-compliance of our correspondents with such regulations. If a claim of non-compliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of our management could be diverted to responding to such a claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Additionally, our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions which are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. We and certain of our officers and employees have been subject to claims of non-compliance in the past, and may be subject to such claims and legal proceedings in the future. Most recently, PFSI has received an inquiry from the NASD regarding the application of Regulation T to its handling of trades in cash accounts. At the request of the NASD, we have completed a self-assessment of our handling of customer trading activity in our cash account. We believe that in certain circumstances we have handled this activity incorrectly and we have made the necessary 29 Table of Contents changes to our processes to correct this issue. We cannot predict the final results of the inquiry but this subsidiary or certain of its personnel may be sanctioned or fined by the NASD, although we do not expect any such sanction or fine to be material. We also operate clearing and related businesses in the U.K. and Canada and execute transactions in global markets. These non-U.S. businesses are also heavily regulated. To the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of our business, we will face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts. In addition, as we expand into new non-U.S. markets with which we may have relatively less experience, there is a risk that our lack of familiarity with the regulations impacting such markets may affect our performance and results. The regulatory environment in which we operate has experienced increasing scrutiny by regulatory authorities in recent years and further changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant change in the past and may undergo further change in the future. The CFTC, the SEC, the NASD, various securities or futures exchanges and other U.S. and foreign governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required prior to expansion of our business activities. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any desired expansion. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business and could require us to incur significant compliance costs or adversely affect the development of business activities in affected markets. If we do not maintain the capital levels required by regulations, we may be subject to fines, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by regulatory authorities. We are subject to stringent rules imposed by the SEC, the NASD, and various other regulatory agencies which require broker-dealers to maintain specific levels of net capital. Net capital is the net worth of a broker-dealer, less deductions, for other types of assets including assets not readily convertible into cash and specified percentages of a broker-dealer’s proprietary securities positions. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, we may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by the NASD, which, if not cured, could ultimately lead to our liquidation. If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against our net capital, we might be required to limit or discontinue our clearing and margin lending operations that require the intensive use of capital. In addition, our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay debt at the parent company level and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, if necessary. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could impede our ability to expand or even maintain our present volume of business. Our futures clearing business is subject to the capital and segregation rules of the NFA and CFTC. Our recent acquisition of GHCO substantially increases our exposure to these rules. If we fail to maintain the required capital, or if we violate the customer segregation rules, we may be subject to monetary fines, and the suspension or revocation of our license to clear futures contracts. Any interruption in our ability to continue this business would impact our revenues and profitability. Outside of the U.S., we are subject to other regulatory capital requirements. Our U.K. subsidiary is subject to capital adequacy rules that require our subsidiary to maintain stockholders’ equity and qualifying subordinated loans at specified minimum levels. If we fail to maintain the required regulatory capital, we may be subject to fine, suspension or revocation of our license with the Financial Services Authority. If our license is suspended or revoked or if the capital adequacy requirements are changed or expanded, we may be required to discontinue our U.K. operations, which could result in diminished revenues. 30 Table of Contents As a member of the IDA, an approved participant with the Montreal Exchange, and a participating organization with the Toronto Stock Exchange Penson Canada is subject to the rules and policies of the IDA and other rules relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital. Specifically, to ensure that IDA members will be able to meet liabilities as they become due, the IDA requires its member broker-dealers to periodically calculate their risk-adjusted capital in accordance with a prescribed formula. If Penson Canada fails to maintain the required risk-adjusted capital, it may be subject to monetary sanctions, suspensions or other sanctions, including expulsion as a member. If Penson Canada is sanctioned or expelled or if the risk adjusted capital requirements are changed or expanded, Penson Canada may be required to discontinue operations in Canada, which could result in diminished revenues. In addition, some of the investments we make in our business may impact our regulatory capital. We have made large investments into NEXA and expect to continue to do so in the future. Investments in non-regulated subsidiaries and increases in illiquid assets, including unsecured customer accounts, have a negative impact on the capital available for our regulated subsidiaries. In 2002, we experienced a larger than normal level of unsecured and partially secured customer and correspondent accounts, which resulted in a provision for bad debt of approximately $13 million in 2002. If we experience similar increased levels of unsecured and partially secured accounts in the future, our financial results may be harmed. Procedures and requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require that they know certain information about their customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the PATRIOT Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We may face particular difficulties in identifying our international customers, gathering the required information about them and monitoring their activities. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the PATRIOT Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. Risks related to our corporate structure Our discontinued operations expose us to legal and other risks. Although the split off transaction described in “Management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations — Split off transaction,” has occurred, we may incur future liabilities related to the operations of the SAMCO entities prior to the consummation of the split off transaction. Due to the Company’s indirect ownership of the SAMCO entities prior to our IPO we may be exposed to additional liabilities beyond what we may ordinarily encounter in our typical customer relationships. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work 31 Table of Contents to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our company. Risks related to our requirements as a public company Our stockholders could be harmed if our management and larger stockholders use their influence in a manner adverse to other stockholders’ interests. At the date of this report, our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders will beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 54.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders will have the ability to control all fundamental matters affecting us, including the election of the majority of the board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in our control even if beneficial to you as a stockholder. See “Certain relationships and related transactions” for a description of certain relationships we have with these stockholders. The interests of these stockholders with respect to such matters could conflict with your interests as a holder of common stock. For further information regarding management’s stock ownership, see “Principal and selling stockholders.” The price of our common stock may be volatile. Since the completion of our initial public offering in May 2006, the price at which our common stock has traded has been subject to significant fluctuation. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile in the future and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • reductions in market prices or volume; • changes in securities or other government regulations; • quarterly variations in operating results; • our technological capabilities to accommodate any future growth in our operations or clients; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, services, significant contracts, acquisitions or joint ventures by us or our competitors; and • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to meet or exceed analyst estimates. As a result, shareholders may be unable to sell their stock at or above the price they paid for it. Our internal controls over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent auditors may not be able to certify as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent auditors to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. We are currently performing the system and process evaluation and testing required (and any necessary remediation) in 32 Table of Contents an effort to comply with management certification and auditor attestation requirements of Section 404. These requirements will apply to us as of December 31, 2007. In the course of our ongoing Section 404 evaluation, we have identified areas of internal controls that may need improvement, and are implementing enhanced processes and controls to address these and any other issues that might be identified through this review. However, as we are still in the evaluation process, we may identify conditions that may result in significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 