Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the discussion and analysis set forth in Part I, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the cautionary statements set forth in Part I, Item 1, “Business,” the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and outlook. The Interest Rate Environment May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Net Interest Income From June 2004 through June 2006 the Federal Reserve Federal Open Market Committee (“FOMC”) increased the federal funds target rate 17 times from 1.00% to 5.25%. Beginning in September 2007, it decreased the federal funds target rate eleven times from 5.25% to a range of 0.00% to 0.25%. A volatile interest rate environment makes it difficult for the Company to coordinate the timing and amount of changes in the rates of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings with the rates of interest it earns on loans and securities. In addition, volatile interest rate environments cause corresponding volatility in the demand by individuals and businesses for the loan and deposit products offered by the Company. This volatility has a direct impact on the Company’s net interest income, and consequently, its net income. Management expects future interest rates to continue to be volatile and is unable to predict the impact such volatility will have on the net interest income and profits of the Company. Changes in Market Interest Rates or Other Conditions May Have an Adverse Impact on the Fair Value of the Company’s Available-for-Sale Securities, Shareholders’ Equity, and Profits GAAP requires the Company to carry its securities at fair value on its balance sheet. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities, reflecting the difference between the fair market value and the amortized cost, net of its tax effect, are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity. When market rates of interest increase, the fair value of the Company’s securities available-for-sale generally decreases and equity correspondingly decreases. When rates decrease, fair value generally increases and shareholders’ equity correspondingly increases. However, due to significant disruptions in global financial markets during 2008, this usual relationship was disrupted. Despite a declining interest rate environment during 2008, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale securities declined in value, its private label CMOs in particular. In addition, recent and future legislation and/or instability in related markets could affect the value of the Company’s private label CMOs. In 2008 the Company’s unrealized losses on its portfolio of securities available-for-sale increased significantly. Management expects continued volatility in the fair value of its securities available for sale and is not able to predict when or if the fair value of such securities will improve. In certain instances GAAP requires recognition through earnings of declines in the fair value of securities that are deemed to be other than temporarily impaired (“OTTI”). In 2007 the Company recognized $1.2 million in OTTI losses on two mutual funds. In 2008 the fair value of one of these funds declined by an additional $6.9 million and was deemed to be OTTI. Management believes it is possible there could be continued volatility in the fair value of this mutual fund, which could have an adverse impact on the Company’s future net income. Changes in the Financial Condition or Future Prospects of the FHLB of Chicago May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Investment in FHLB Common Stock The Company is a voluntary member of the FHLB of Chicago, and holds shares in the FHLB of Chicago as a condition of borrowing money from it. In 2007, the FHLB of Chicago was required to suspend payment of dividends on its stock. If there are any further developments that impair the value of the common stock of the FHLB of Chicago, the Company would be required to write down the value of the shares which it holds, which in turn could affect the Company’s net income and shareholder’s equity. If the Company’s Allowance for Loan Losses Is Not Sufficient to Cover Actual Loan Losses, the Company’s Earnings Could Decrease The Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. A continued slowdown in the economy may affect borrowers’ ability to repay their loan obligations which could lead to increased loan 33 Table of Contents losses or provisions. As a result, the Company may experience significant loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results. Softness in the Real Estate Market May Adversely Affect Collateral Values and the Company’s Profits The Company’s market areas have generally experienced a decline in real estate values and an increase in non-residential tenant vacancies. These developments could affect the value of the collateral securing the Company’s mortgage loans. That decrease in value could in turn lead to increased losses on loans in the event of foreclosures. Increased losses would affect the Company’s loan loss allowance and may cause it to increase its provision for loan losses resulting in a charge to earnings. Some of the Company’s Lending Activities Are in Credits that are Riskier than One- to Four-Family Real Estate Loans The Company has identified commercial real estate, commercial business, construction and development, and consumer loans as areas for lending emphasis. While lending diversification is being pursued for the purpose of increasing net interest income, non-residential and construction and development loans historically have carried greater risk of payment default than residential real estate loans. As the volume of these loans increases, credit risk increases. In the event of substantial borrower defaults, the Company’s provision for loan losses would increase and loans may be written off, and therefore, earnings would be reduced. Wisconsin Tax Developments Could Reduce the Company’s Net Income Like many Wisconsin financial institutions, the Company has non-Wisconsin subsidiaries which hold and manage investment assets and loans, the income on which has not been subject to Wisconsin tax. The Wisconsin Department of Revenue (the “Department”) has instituted an audit program specifically aimed at out-of-state subsidiaries of Wisconsin banks. The Department has asserted the position that some or all of the income of the out-of-state subsidiaries is taxable in Wisconsin. The Department is conducting audits of many Wisconsin banks; its audit of the Bank has not yet been concluded, is not being actively pursued, and the Department has not asserted a claim against the Bank or its subsidiaries. The Department sent letters in 2004 to Wisconsin financial institutions (whether or not they were undergoing an audit) reporting on settlements the Department had reached with certain other financial institutions and their out-of-state investment subsidiaries. The letter provided a summary of available settlement parameters. For prior periods they included: restrictions on the types of subsidiary income excluded from Wisconsin taxation; assessment of certain back taxes relating to a limited time period; limitations on net operating loss carry forwards; and interest on past-due taxes (but no penalties). For 2004 and going forward, the letter states similar provisions, including limits on subsidiaries’ assets, which could be considered in determining income not subject to Wisconsin taxation. As outlined, the settlement would result in the rescission of prior Department letter rulings and purport to be binding going forward except for future legislation or change by mutual agreement. However, the letter appears to implicitly accept the general proposition that some out-of-state investment subsidiary income is not subject to Wisconsin taxes. The Department’s positions may be challenged by one or more financial institutions in the state. The Company has previously engaged in discussions with the Department and has asked the Department to consider some specific factors which the Company believes may distinguish it from many other institutions. However, the change in Wisconsin tax law described below causes the settlement agreements between the Department and other banks to be inapplicable on a going-forward basis. It is not yet known whether the Department will continue to challenge the Bank’s treatment of its out-of-state investment subsidiaries for prior years, and, if so, whether the Department will continue to offer the same, if any, settlement terms. Depending upon the terms and circumstances, an adverse resolution of these matters could result in additional Wisconsin tax obligations for prior periods, which could have a substantial negative impact on the earnings of the Company. The Company currently has Wisconsin tax years open since 1997 under extensions with the Department in connection with the audit. The Company believes it has reported income and paid Wisconsin taxes in accordance with applicable legal requirements, and the Department’s long standing interpretations thereof, and that the Company would likely prevail against the Department should it attempt to tax the income of the Company’s out-of-state subsidiaries in Wisconsin. However, management can provide no assurances of this result. The Company also may incur further costs in the future to address these issues. 34 Table of Contents As previously mentioned, Wisconsin law was recently amended, effective January 1, 2009, to significantly restrict the future tax benefits of out-of-state investment subsidiaries through enactment of combined reporting legislation. Going forward, this change in tax law is expected to have a substantial negative impact on the earnings of the Company. If the Company had been required to file a combined Wisconsin income tax return in 2008, management estimates the Company’s income tax expense would have been approximately $1.3 million higher than reported in that year, excluding the impact of state net operating loss carryforwards, if any, that may be available to the Company. The Global Credit Market Crisis and Deteriorating Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Liquidity, Financial Condition, and Earnings Global financial markets recently have been, and continue to be, extremely unstable and unpredictable, and economic conditions have been weak and appear to be deteriorating. Continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness could affect the Company’s ability to sell investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and financial position. This instability also could affect the prices at which the Company could make any such sales, which could adversely affect its earnings and financial condition. Conditions could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to secure funds or raise capital for acquisitions and other projects, which in turn, could cause the Company to use deposits or other funding sources for such projects. In addition, the instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the strength of the Company’s customers or counterparties, their willingness to do business, and/or their ability to fulfill their obligations, which could further affect the Company’s earnings. Current conditions, including increasing unemployment, deteriorating corporate performance, the continued softening of real estate markets and the decline of home sales and property values, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations and prepayments, the value of the real estate securing the Company’s mortgage loans, and borrowers’ ability to repay loan obligations, all of which could adversely impact the Company’s earnings and financial condition. Recent and Future Legislation and Rulemaking in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition The instability and volatility in the credit markets led to the adoption of significant legislation and regulatory actions in the past few months which will significantly affect financial institutions and holding companies, including the Company. This legislation includes the recently adopted federal stimulus legislation, and the federal government’s proposed financial stability plan, which could substantially affect the Company and the Bank in far reaching ways which cannot yet be determined. During the 2008, the federal government enacted the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has, among other things, established the Troubled Assets Relief Program (“TARP”), including a voluntary Capital Purchase Program. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2008 the FDIC announced the creation of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (“TLGP”) in which it temporarily guarantees newly issued senior unsecured debt of participating organizations and providing full coverage for non-interest-bearing transaction deposit accounts. In 2008 and 2009, the FDIC has also adopted, and proposed substantial further, increases to its insurance premiums payable by financial institutions, including a 2009 special assessment to bolster the FDIC’s reserves. Further, the federal government announced a financial stability plan, which among other things, establishes a Capital Assistance Program (“CAP”) under which financial institutions undergo comprehensive “stress tests” to evaluate their capital needs and determine if they can absorb losses and continue lending if economic conditions were to be more adverse than generally expected; subject to the results of these tests, institutions may have access to Treasury funds to augment their capital. The financial stability plan is subject to further definition and changes prior to its adoption and/or implementation. Although the Company elected to not participate in the TARP Capital Purchase Program and elected to not participate in the debt guarantee component of the TLGP, and does not currently expect to participate in CAP (although it continues to evaluate the possibility of doing so), management believes these new laws, regulations, and changes may significantly affect the business environment, the markets for and value of the Company’s securities, and its ongoing operations, costs and profitability. In addition, it is widely expected that there will be additional potential legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry. At this time, management cannot fully determine the extent of these effects, as well as any future laws and regulations that may be enacted as a result of the current economic crisis. 35 Table of Contents The current economic turmoil has also increased the potential for federal or state governments to legislate foreclosure forbearance, forced loan modifications, or “cram downs” of losses to lenders in bankruptcy proceedings. Such efforts could lead to increased loan charge-offs or loan loss provisions and/or reduced income. These efforts could also have an adverse impact on the value of certain mortgage-related securities not guaranteed by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and Ginnie Mae, such as private-label CMOs. Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Affect Net Income The Company encounters strong competition both in attracting deposits and originating real estate and other loans. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. The Company’s market area includes branches of several commercial banks that are substantially larger than the Company in terms of deposits and loans. For example, approximately half of the deposits in the Milwaukee market area are held by two large commercial banks. In addition, tax-exempt credit unions operate in most of the Company’s market area and aggressively price their products and services to a large part of the population. If competitors succeed in attracting business from the Company’s customers, its deposits and loans could be reduced, which would likely affect earnings. The Company’s Ability to Grow May Be Limited if It Cannot Make Acquisitions The Company will continue to seek to expand its banking franchise by opening new offices, growing internally, and acquiring other financial institutions or branches and other financial services providers. The Company’s ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring, and integrating those institution or branches. The Company has not made any acquisitions in recent years, as management has not identified acquisitions for which it was able to reach an agreement on terms management believed were appropriate and/or which met its acquisition criteria. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to generate internal growth, identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. The Company Has Significant Intangible Assets Which It May Need to Write Off (Expense) in the Future The Company has $52.6 million in goodwill, $1.8 million in other intangible assets, and $3.7 million of mortgage servicing rights as of December 31, 2008. The Company continues to amortize other intangible assets over seven to fifteen years and evaluate mortgage servicing rights for impairment on a monthly basis. The Company periodically evaluates goodwill and the other intangible assets for impairment. At some point in the future, the Company’s intangible assets could become impaired and it would need to write them off as a reduction to earnings in the period in which they became impaired. The Company is Subject to Security and Operational Risks Relating to the Use of Technology that Could Damage Its Reputation and Business Security breaches in the Company’s internet, telephonic, or other electronic banking activities could expose it to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of the Company’s security also could deter customers from using its internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Company relies on standard internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect the Company’s systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures, which could result in damage to the Company’s reputation and business. Additionally, the Company outsources a large portion of its data processing to third parties. If these third party providers encounter technological or other difficulties or if they have difficulty in communicating with the Company, it will significantly affect the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect business operations. 36 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 