Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the discussion and analysis set forth in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” and the cautionary statements set forth in “Item 1. Business,” the following risk factors should be considered when evaluating the Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and outlook. These risk factors should also be considered when evaluating any investment decision with respect to the Company’s common stock. The Global Credit Market Instability and Weak Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Liquidity, Financial Condition, and Results of Operations Global financial markets continue to be unstable and unpredictable, and economic conditions have been weak. Developments relating to the federal budget, federal borrowing authority, or other political issues could also negatively impact these markets, as could global developments such as the European sovereign debt crisis. Continued, and potentially increased, volatility, instability and weakness could affect the Company’s ability to sell investment securities and other financial assets, which in turn could adversely affect the Company’s liquidity and financial position. This instability also could affect the prices at which the Company could make any such sales, which could adversely affect its results of operations and financial condition. Conditions could also negatively affect the Company’s ability to secure funds or raise capital for acquisitions and other projects, which in turn, could cause the Company to use deposits or other funding sources for such projects. 24 In addition, the instability of the markets and weakness of the economy could affect the strength of the Company’s customers or counterparties, their willingness to do business with, and/or their ability or willingness to fulfill their obligations to the Company, which could further affect the Company’s results of operations. Current conditions, including high unemployment, weak corporate performance, soft real estate markets, and the decline of home sales and property values, could negatively affect the volume of loan originations and prepayments, the value of the real estate securing the Company’s mortgage loans, and borrowers’ ability or willingness to repay loan obligations, all of which could adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and financial condition. The Company’s Actual Loan Losses May Exceed its Allowance for Loan Losses, Which Could Have a Material Adverse Affect on the Company’s Results of Operations The Company has policies and procedures in place to manage its exposure to risk related to its lending operations. However, despite these practices, the Company’s loan customers may not repay their loans according to the terms of the loans and the collateral securing the payment of these loans may be insufficient to pay any remaining loan balance. Continued economic weakness, including high unemployment rates and declining values of the collateral underlying loans, may affect borrowers’ ability or willingness to repay their loan obligations that could lead to increased loan losses or provisions. As a result, the Company may experience significant loan losses, including losses that may exceed the amounts established in the allowance for loan losses, which could have a material adverse effect on its operating results and capital. Further Declines in Real Estate Values May Continue to Adversely Affect Collateral Values and the Company’s Results of Operations The Company’s market areas have generally experienced a decline in real estate values, elevated levels of residential and non-residential tenant vacancies, and weakness in the market for sale of new or existing properties, for both commercial and residential real estate. These developments could continue to negatively affect the value of the collateral securing the Company’s mortgage and related loans. That decrease in value could in turn lead to increased losses on loans in the event of foreclosures. Increased losses would affect the Company’s loan loss allowance and may cause it to increase its provision for loan losses resulting in a charge to earnings and capital. Some of the Company’s Lending Activities Are Riskier than One- to Four-Family Real Estate Loans The Company has identified commercial real estate, commercial business, construction, and consumer loans as areas for lending emphasis and has augmented its personnel in recent periods to increase its penetration in the commercial lending market. While the Company is pursuing this lending diversification for the purpose of increasing net interest income, these types of loans historically have carried greater risk of payment default than residential real estate loans. As the volume of these types of loans increases, credit risk increases. In the event of continued substantial borrower defaults and/or increased defaults resulting from these diverse types of lending, the Company’s provision for loan losses would further increase and loans may be written off, and therefore, earnings would be reduced. Further, as the portion of the Company's loans secured by the assets of commercial enterprises increases, the Company becomes increasingly exposed to environmental liabilities and compliance burdens. Even though the Company is subject to environmental requirements in connection with residential real estate lending, the possibility of liability increases in connection with commercial lending, particularly in industries that use hazardous materials and/or generate waste or pollution or that own property that was the subject of prior contamination. If the Company does not adequately assess potential environment risks, the value of the collateral it holds may be less than it expects, and it may be exposed to liability for remediation or other environmental compliance. Regulators Are Becoming Increasingly Stringent, which may Affect the Company's Business and Results of Operations In addition to new laws and increasing amounts of regulation, the regulatory climate in the U.S., particularly for financial institutions, has become increasingly strict and stringent. As a consequence, regulatory activity affecting specific institutions has also increased in recent periods. For example, as previously noted both the Company and the Bank are subject to MOUs with their primary regulators. The MOUs have imposed specific requirements, and could affect the Company's and the Bank's operations and ability to pursue opportunities, as well as their financial needs, results and ability to pay dividends. Further, because the responsibility for regulating savings associations and their holding companies has transitioned to different regulatory agencies, the FRB and the OCC, these agencies may approach that regulation in different or stricter ways than the predecessor agency, which also could affect the Company's and the Bank's costs of compliance and results of operations. 25 The Bank’s Ability to Pay Dividends to the Company Is Subject to Current and Potential Future Limitations That May Affect the Company’s Ability to Pay Dividends to Its Shareholders and Repurchase Its Stock The Company is a separate legal entity from the Bank and engages in no substantial activities other than its ownership of the common stock of the Bank. Consequently, the Company’s net income and cash flows are derived primarily from the Bank’s operations and capital distributions. The availability of dividends from the Bank to the Company is limited by various statutes and regulations, including those of the OCC and FRB; as a result, it is possible, depending on the results of operations and the financial condition of the Bank and other factors, that the OCC and/or the FRB could restrict the payment by the Bank of dividends or other capital distributions or take other actions which could negatively affect the Bank's results and dividend capacity. The federal regulators have become increasingly stringent in their interpretation, application and enforcement of banks' capital requirements, which along with the MOU also could affect the regulators’ willingness to allow Bank dividends to the Company. If the Bank is required to reduce its dividends to the Company, or is unable to pay dividends at all, or the FRB separately does not allow the Company to pay dividends under the MOU, the Company may not be able to pay dividends to its shareholders at existing levels or at all and/or may not be able to repurchase its common stock. Future Events May Result in a Valuation Allowance Against the Company’s Deferred Tax Asset May Which May have a Significant Effect On the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition As of December 31, 2011, the Company’s net deferred tax asset was $37.5 million. Management evaluates this asset on an on-going basis to determine if a valuation allowance is required. Management determined that no valuation allowance was required to be recorded against the Company’s net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2011. This determination required significant management judgment based on positive and negative considerations. Such considerations included the Company’s cumulative three-year net loss, the nature of the components of such cumulative loss, recent trends in earnings excluding one-time charges (such as the FHLB prepayment penalty in 2010 and the goodwill impairment in 2011), expectations for the Company’s future earnings, the duration of federal and state net operating loss carryforward periods, and other factors. Future events or circumstances could result in conditions that differ significantly from management’s current assessment of these positive and negative considerations, particularly as such relate to the Company’s future earnings. Changes in these considerations could result in a significant valuation allowance being recorded against the Company’s net deferred tax asset, which could have a significant effect on the Company’s future results of operations and financial condition. Recent and Future Legislation and Rulemaking in Response to Market and Economic Conditions May Significantly Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Condition Instability, volatility, and failures in the credit and financial institutions markets have led regulators and legislators to consider and/or adopt proposals that will significantly affect financial institutions and their holding companies, including the Company. Legislation such as the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010, as well as programs such as the Troubled Assets Relief Program, were adopted. Although designed to address capital and liquidity issues in the banking system, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate impact of these actions on financial markets. The failure of these actions could have a material, adverse effect on the Company’s business, financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or the value of the Company’s securities. Further legislative and regulatory proposals to reform the U.S. financial system would also affect the Company and the Bank. For example, under pending proposals, the roles of Fannie Mae and/or Freddie Mac could be substantially altered or eliminated, which could have a significant effect on the housing market in the United States, including as a result of potentially decreased liquidity for mortgages on the secondary market, and lending practices related to real estate mortgages. The Dodd-Frank Act created the CFPB, which has broad rulemaking and enforcement authority with respect to entities, including financial institutions, that offer to consumers covered financial products and services. The CFPB is required to adopt rules identifying practices or acts that are unfair, deceptive or abusive relating to any customer transaction for a consumer financial product or service, or the offering of a consumer financial product or service. The full scope of the impact of this authority has not yet been determined as related rules have not all yet been adopted. The Company cannot yet determine the costs and limitations related to these additional regulatory requirements; however, the costs of compliance and the effect on its business may have a material adverse effect on the Company's operations and results. 26 Also, weak economic conditions have resulted in periodic attempts by federal, state, and/or local governments to legislate foreclosure forbearance, forced loan modifications, “cram downs” of losses to lenders in bankruptcy proceedings, or “upkeep laws” for foreclosed properties, or take other action that could increase the time or costs of foreclosure or the costs of holding foreclosed real estate. Such actions and efforts, if successful, could lead to increased loan charge-offs or loan loss provisions and/or reduced income. These efforts could also adversely affect the value of certain mortgage-related securities not guaranteed by Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae, and Ginnie Mae, such as private-label CMOs. Recently enacted laws, proposed acts, taxes and fees, or any other legislation or regulations ultimately enacted, could materially affect the Company, the Bank and their operations and profitability by imposing additional regulatory burdens and costs, imposing limits on fees and other sources of income, and otherwise more generally affecting the conduct of their business. The Interest Rate Environment May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Net Interest Income A volatile interest rate environment makes it difficult for the Company to coordinate the timing and amount of changes in the rates of interest it pays on deposits and borrowings with the rates of interest it earns on loans and securities. In addition, volatile interest rate environments cause corresponding volatility in the demand by individuals and businesses for the loan and deposit products offered by the Company. This volatility has a direct impact on the Company’s net interest income, and consequently, its net income. Future interest rates could continue to be volatile and management is unable to predict the impact such volatility would have on the net interest income and profits of the Company. Changes in Market Interest Rates or Other Conditions May Have an Adverse Impact on the Fair Value of the Company’s Available-for-Sale Securities, Shareholders’ Equity, and Profits GAAP requires the Company to carry its securities at fair value on its balance sheet. Unrealized gains or losses on these securities, reflecting the difference between the fair market value and the amortized cost, net of its tax effect, are included as a component of shareholders’ equity. When market rates of interest increase, the fair value of the Company’s securities available-for-sale generally decreases and equity correspondingly decreases. When rates decrease, fair value generally increases and shareholders’ equity correspondingly increases. However, due to significant disruptions in global financial markets, such as those which occurred in 2008, this usual relationship can be disrupted. Despite a generally declining interest rate environment since that time, certain of the Company’s available-for-sale securities (specifically, its private-label CMOs) continue to have fair values that are substantially less than amortized cost. Management expects continued volatility in the fair value of its private-label CMOs and is not able to predict when or if the fair value of such securities will fully recover. Wisconsin Tax Developments Could Reduce the Company’s Net Income Like many Wisconsin financial institutions, the Company has non-Wisconsin subsidiaries that hold and manage investment assets and loans, the income from which had not previously been subject to Wisconsin tax prior to 2009. The Wisconsin Department of Revenue (the “Department”) has instituted an audit program specifically aimed at financial institutions’ out-of-state investment subsidiaries. The Department has asserted the position that some or all of the income of the out-of-state subsidiaries in years prior to 2009 was taxable in Wisconsin. In 2010 the Department’s auditor issued a Notice of Proposed Audit Report to the Bank which proposes to tax all of the income of the Bank’s out-of-state investment subsidiaries for all periods that are still open under the statute of limitations, which includes tax years back to 1997. This is a preliminary determination made by the auditor and does not represent a formal assessment. The Bank’s outside legal counsel has met with representatives of the Department to discuss, and object to, the auditor’s proposed adjustments. The Department has requested further information to support the Company’s position, which the Company is in the process of providing. Management continues to believe that the Bank has reported income and paid Wisconsin taxes in prior periods in accordance with applicable legal requirements and the Department’s long-standing interpretations of them and that the Bank’s position will prevail in discussions with the Department, court proceedings, or other actions that may occur. Ultimately, however, an adverse resolution of these matters could result in additional Wisconsin tax obligations for prior periods, which could have a substantial negative impact on the Bank’s earnings in the period such resolution is reached. The Bank may also incur further costs in the future to address and defend these issues. 27 Strong Competition Within the Company’s Market Area May Affect Net Income The Company encounters strong competition both in attracting deposits and originating real estate and other loans. The Company competes with commercial banks, savings institutions, mortgage banking firms, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, and brokerage and investment banking firms. The Company’s market area includes branches of several commercial banks that are substantially larger than the Company in terms of deposits and loans. In addition, tax-exempt credit unions operate in most of the Company’s market area and aggressively price their products and services to a large part of the population. If competitors succeed in attracting business from the Company’s customers, its deposits and loans could be reduced, which would likely affect earnings. The Company Is Subject to Security Risks and Failures and Operational Risks Relating to the Use of Technology that Could Damage Its Reputation and Business Security breaches in the Company’s internet, telephonic, or other electronic banking activities could expose it to possible liability and damage its reputation. Any compromise of the Company’s security also could deter customers from using its internet banking services that involve the transmission of confidential information. The Company relies on standard internet and other security systems to provide the security and authentication necessary to effect secure transmission of data. These precautions may not protect the Company’s systems from compromises or breaches of its security measures, which could result in damage to the Company’s reputation and business and affect its results of operations. Additionally, as a financial institution, the Company’s business is data intensive. Beyond the inherent nature of a financial institution that requires it to process and track extremely large numbers of financial transactions and accounts, the Company is required to collect and maintain significant data about its customers. These operations require the Company to obtain and maintain technology and security-related systems that are mission critical to its business. The Company’s failure to do so could significantly affect its ability to conduct business and its customers' confidence in it. Further, the Company outsources a large portion of its data processing to third parties. If these third party providers encounter technological or other difficulties or if they have difficulty in communicating with the Company, it will significantly affect the Company’s ability to adequately process and account for customer transactions, which would significantly affect business operations. Further, the technology affecting the financial institutions industry and consumer financial transactions is rapidly changing, with the frequent introduction of new products, services, and alternatives. The future success of the Company requires that it continue to adapt to these changes in technology to address its customers' needs. Many of the Company's competitors have greater technological resources to invest in these improvements. These changes could be costly to the Company and if the Company does not continue to offer the services and technology demanded by the marketplace, this failure to keep pace with change could materially affect its business, financial condition, and results of operation. Developments in the Marketplace, Such as Alternatives to Traditional Financial Institutions, or Adverse Publicity Could Affect the Company's Ongoing Business Changes in the marketplace are allowing consumer to use alternative means to complete financial transactions that previously had been conducted through banks. For example, consumers can increasingly maintain funds in accounts other than bank deposits or through on-line alternatives, or complete payment transactions without the assistance of banks. Continuation or acceleration of these trends, including newly developing means of communications and technology, could cause consumers to utilize fewer of the Company's services, which could have a material adverse affect on its results. Financial institutions such as the Company are increasingly under governmental, media and other scrutiny as to the conduct of their businesses, and potential issues and adverse developments (real and perceived) are receiving widespread media attention. If there were to be significant adverse publicity about the Company, that publicity could affect its reputation in the marketplace. If the Company's reputation is diminished, it could affect its business and results of operations as well as the price of the Company's common stock. Future FDIC Increases in Deposit Insurance Premiums Could Increase the Company’s Expenses In 2009 the FDIC significantly increased the initial base assessment rates paid by financial institutions for deposit insurance, imposed a special assessment, and required financial institutions to prepay assessments for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. These measures were partly in response to the high level of bank failures which has caused an increase in FDIC resolution costs and a reduction in the deposit insurance fund. Effective in April 2011 the FDIC issued a new rule that changed the assessment base and risk-based assessment rates of all insured financial institutions. Although this latest development benefited the Company by lowering the total dollar amount of its FDIC deposit insurance premiums, future changes in the assessment base and/or rates, if any, may have an adverse affect the earnings of the Company. 28 Changes in the Financial Condition or Future Prospects of the FHLB of Chicago May Have an Adverse Impact on the Company’s Investment in FHLB Common Stock The Company is a voluntary member of the FHLB of Chicago, and holds shares in the FHLB of Chicago as a condition of borrowing money from it. From 2007 through early 2010, the FHLB of Chicago was required to suspend payment of dividends on its stock, although it resumed payment of a cash dividend in 2011 and reorganized its capital structure effective in January 2012. Also, in December 2011 the FHLB of Chicago announced it had received approval for a plan to redeem excess shares of its outstanding common stock. Under this plan the FHLB of Chicago redeemed a substantial portion of its common stock in February 2012 and intends to redeem additional excess common stock in quarterly increments through 2013, although there can be no assurances. If there are any developments in the future that impair the value of the common stock of the FHLB of Chicago, the Company would be required to write down the value of the shares that it holds, which in turn could affect the Company’s net income and shareholders’ equity. The Company’s Ability to Grow May Be Limited if It Cannot Make Acquisitions The Company will continue to seek to expand its banking franchise by growing internally, acquiring other financial institutions or branches, acquiring other financial services providers, and opening new offices. The Company’s ability to grow through selective acquisitions of other financial institutions or branches will depend on successfully identifying, acquiring, and integrating those institution or branches. The Company has not made any acquisitions in recent years, as management has not identified acquisitions for which it was able to reach an agreement on terms management believed were appropriate and/or that met its acquisition criteria. The Company cannot provide any assurance that it will be able to generate internal growth, identify attractive acquisition candidates, make acquisitions on favorable terms, or successfully integrate any acquired institutions or branches. The Company Depends on Certain Key Personnel and the Company’s Business Could Be Harmed by the Loss of Their Services or the Inability to Attract Other Qualified Personnel The Company’s success depends in large part on the continued service and availability of its management team, and on its ability to attract, retain and motivate qualified personnel. The management team was recently augmented to attempt to increase the Company's penetration into the commercial lending market. The Company may need to attract further talent in the future. The competition for these individuals can be significant, and the loss of key personnel could harm the Company’s business. The Company cannot provide assurances that it will be able to retain existing key personnel or attract additional qualified personnel. If the Company is Unable to Maintain Effective Internal Control Over Its Financial Reporting, Investors Could Lose Confidence in the Reliability of Its Financial Statements, Which Could Result in a Reduction in the Value of Its Common Stock Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, public companies must include a report of management regarding companies' control over financial reporting in their annual reports and that report must contain an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the companies' internal control over financial reporting. In addition, the independent registered public accounting firm that audits a company's financial statements must attest to and report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. If the Company is unable to maintain the required effective internal control over financial reporting, including in connection with regulatory changes and/or changes in accounting rules and standards that apply to it, this could lead to a failure to meet its reporting obligations to the SEC. Such a failure in turn could result in an adverse reaction to the Company in the marketplace or a decline in value of the Company's common stock, due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of the Company's financial statements. 29 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 