D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Operation Our business may be adversely affected by the fluctuation of crude oil and refined petroleum product prices. We consume a large amount of crude oil to produce our refined petroleum products and petrochemical products. While we try to adjust the sale price of our products to track international crude oil price fluctuations, our ability to pass on the increased cost resulting from crude oil price increases to our customers is dependent on international and domestic market conditions as well as the PRC government’s price control over refined petroleum products. Although the current price-setting mechanism for refined petroleum products in China allows the PRC government to adjust price in the PRC market when the average international crude oil price fluctuates beyond certain levels within a certain time period, the PRC government still retains discretion as to whether or when to adjust the refined petroleum products price. The PRC government generally exercises certain price control over refined petroleum products once international crude oil price experiences sustained rises or becomes significantly volatile. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected by the fluctuation of crude oil and refined petroleum product prices. Our continued business success depends in part on our ability to replace reserves and develop newly discovered reserves. Our ability to achieve our growth objectives is dependent in part on our level of success in discovering or acquiring additional oil and natural gas reserves and further exploring our current reserve base. Our exploration and development activities for additional reserves also expose us to inherent risks associated with drilling, including the risk that no proved oil or natural gas reservoirs might be discovered. Exploring for, developing and acquiring reserves is highly risky and capital intensive. Without reserve additions through further exploration and development or acquisition activities, our reserves and production will decline over time, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 8 We rely heavily on outside suppliers for crude oil and other raw materials, and we may even experience disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil and other raw materials. We purchase a significant portion of our crude oil and other feedstock requirements from outside suppliers located in different countries and areas in the world. In 2011, approximately 78.8% of the crude oil required for our refinery business was sourced from international suppliers, some of which are from countries or regions that are on the sanction list published and administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFACof the US Department of Treasury, such as Iran and Sudan. In addition, our development requires us to source an increasing amount of crude oil from outside suppliers. We are subject to the political, geographical and economic risks associated with these countries and areas. If one or more of our material supply contracts were terminated or disrupted due to any natural disasters or political events, it is possible that we would not be able to find sufficient alternative sources of supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business faces operation risks and natural disasters that may cause significant property damages, personal injuries and interruption of operations, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all the financial losses incurred by us. Exploring for, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas and producing and transporting refined and petrochemical products involve a number of operating hazards. Significant operating hazards and natural disasters may cause interruption to our operations, property or environmental damages as well as personal injuries, and each of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We have been paying high attention to the safety of our operation and implemented health, safety and environment management system within our company with the view to preventing accident, and reducing personal injuries, property losses and environment pollution. We also maintain insurance coverage on our property, plant, equipment and inventory. However, our preventative measures may not be effective and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the financial losses caused by the operation risks and natural disasters. Losses incurred or payments required to be made by us due to operating hazards or natural disasters, which are not fully insured, may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas reserves data in this annual report are only estimates, and our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may differ materially from these estimates. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, and in the timing of development expenditures and the projection of future rates of production. The reserve data set forth in this annual report represent third party’s estimates only. Adverse changes in economic conditions may render it uneconomical to develop certain reserves. Our actual production, revenues, taxes and fees payable and development and operating expenditures with respect to our reserves may likely vary from these estimates. The reliability of reserves estimates depends on: · the quality and quantity of technical and economic data; · the prevailing oil and gas prices applicable to our production; · the production performance of the reservoirs; and · extensive engineering judgments. In addition, new drilling, testing and production results following the estimates may cause substantial upward or downward revisions in the estimates. Our business may be adversely affected by global climate changes. The oil and gas industry in which we operate are drawing increasing concerns about global climate change in recent years. A number of international, national and regional measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been enacted. For example, more than 180 nations are signatories to the Framework Convention on Global Climate Change, commonly known as the “Kyoto Protocol”. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol in a number of countries and other potential legislation limiting emissions could affect the global demand for fossil fuels. The Kyoto Protocol is set to expire in 2012. The nations subject to the Kyoto Protocol have not yet reached agreement upon a successor to the Kyoto Protocol, 9 but the parties have “taken note of” the Copenhagen Accord, a voluntary agreement to work to curb climate change. If China or other countries in which we operate or desire to operate enact legislation focused on reducing greenhouse gases, either independently or in response to the Kyoto Protocol or a successor agreement, it could result in substantial capital expenditure from compliance with these laws, reduced demand for our products, and revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities could also be adversely impacted. The PRC governmental authorities, from time to time, audit or inspect our ultimate controlling shareholder. We cannot predict the effect of their outcome on our reputation, our business and financial condition as well as the trading prices of our ADSs and H shares. The PRC governmental authorities, from time to time, performs audits, inspections, inquiries or similar actions on state-owned companies, such as Sinopec Group Company, our ultimate controlling shareholder. We cannot predict the outcome of such actions of governmental authorities. If, as a result of such audits, inspections or inquiries, (i) material irregularities are found within Sinopec Group Company or us or (ii) Sinopec Group Company or we become the target of any negative publicity, there may be a material adverse effect on our reputation, our business and financial condition as well as the trading prices of our ADSs and H shares. Our overseas businesses may be adversely affected by changes of local policies and business environment. We acquired 55% equity interest of SSI who has 50% interest in Angola Block 18 in 2010. Since the end of civil war in 2002, the Angola government has focused on economic recovery and social development. It has made substantial progress on stability of its social and investment environment in recent years, and keeps continuity and stability on the oil production related policies. However, Angola is still one of the most undeveloped countries defined by the United Nations, and its social and investment environment are subject to certain risks including without limitation, the income distribution gap among nationals, a high unemployment rate, and the problem of discretionary execution of its laws and regulations. Angola entered into the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, or the OPEC, in 2006, and therefore it is also subject to the oil-output restriction imposed by the OPEC. In addition, Angola’s current laws, regulations and policies are subject to uncertain changes since it will have the first presidential campaign in 2012. In addition, in respect to the oil production management in Angola, if there is any malfunction on our water or gas injection systems, the maintenance work may take a long time and our oil production capacity and outputs may decline. In respect to the reserve management in Angola, as more oilfields are developed, water cut in oilfields may increase and the oil reservoir pressures may decrease, which may materially and adversely affect our oil production capacity and reserve development. Risks Relating to Our Industry Our operations may be adversely affected by the global and domestic economic conditions. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions in China and elsewhere around the world. Although the global economy has been recovering slowly from the 2008 financial crisis, it is uncertain whether such recovery is stable or sustainable. Our operations may also be adversely affected by factors such as volatility in international commodity prices, PRC government’s laws, regulations and policies which may affect the domestic market, some countries’ trade protection policies which may affect the export and some regional trade agreements which may affect the input. Our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the market. Most of our revenues are attributable to sales of refined petroleum products and petrochemical products, and certain of these businesses and related products have historically been cyclical and sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the availability and prices of feedstock and general economic conditions, such as changes in industry capacity and output levels, cyclical changes in regional and global economic conditions, prices and availability of substitute products and changes in consumer demand. Many of our products have become increasingly subject to the cyclicality of global markets, and hence, our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the market. We face strong competition from domestic and foreign competitors. Among our competitors, some are major integrated petroleum and petrochemical companies within and outside the PRC, which have recently become more significant participants in the petroleum and petrochemical industry in China. On December 4, 2007, Ministry of Commerce of the PRC promulgated the “Administrative Rules for Crude Oil Market” and “Administrative Rules for Refined Petroleum Products Market”, which open the wholesale market of crude oil and refined petroleum products to new market entrants. As a result, we face more competition in both crude oil and refined petroleum product markets. We also expect to face competition in both domestic and international petrochemical product market as a result of our domestic and international competitors’ increasing production capacity. Increased competition may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 10 Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder Related party transactions. We have engaged from time to time and will continue to engage in a variety of transactions with Sinopec Group, which provides to us a number of services, including, but not limited to, ancillary supply, engineering, maintenance, transport, lease of land use right, lease of buildings, as well as educational and community services. The nature of our transactions with Sinopec Group is governed by a number of service and other contracts between Sinopec Group and us. We have established various schemes in those agreements so that these transactions would be entered into under terms at arm’s length. However, we cannot assure you that Sinopec Group Company or any of its members would not take actions that may favor its interests or its other subsidiaries' interests over ours. Non-competition. Sinopec Group Company has interests in certain businesses, such as oil refining, petrochemical producing and overseas exploration and development, which compete or are likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with our businesses. To avoid the adverse effects brought by the competition between us and Sinopec Group Company to the maximum extent possible, we and Sinopec Group Company have entered into a non-competition agreement. For details, please refer to the descriptions under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – A. Major Shareholders”. Notwithstanding the foregoing contractual arrangements, because Sinopec Group Company is our controlling shareholder, Sinopec Group Company may take actions that may conflict with our own interests. In 2012, we received from Sinopec Group Company an undertaking to avoid its competition with us. For details, please refer to the descriptions under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – A. Major Shareholders”. Investments in OFAC sanctioned countries. Sinopec Group Company undertakes, from time to time and without our involvement, overseas investments and operations in the oil and gas industry, including exploration and production of oil and gas, refining and Liquefied Natural Gas, or LNG projects. Sinopec Group Company’s overseas asset portfolio includes oil and gas development projects in Iran, Sudan and Syria, which countries are on the sanction list published and administrated by the OFAC, of the U.S. Department of Treasury. Certain U.S.-based investors, including state and municipal governments and universities, may not wish to invest, and have proposed or adopted divestment or similar initiatives regarding investments, in companies that do business with countries on OFAC’s sanction list. These investors may not wish to invest, and may divest their investment, in us because of our relationship with Sinopec Group Company and its investments and activities in those OFAC sanctioned countries. As a result, the trading prices of our ADSs may be adversely affected. Risks Relating to the PRC Government regulations may limit our activities and affect our business operations. The PRC government, though gradually liberalizing its regulations on entry into the petroleum and petrochemical industry, continues to exercise certain controls over the petroleum and petrochemical industry in China. These control mechanisms include granting the licenses to explore and produce crude oil and natural gas, granting the licenses to market and distribute crude oil and refined petroleum products, regulating the upper limit of the retail, supply and wholesale prices for petroleum and diesel products; collecting special gain levies, assessing taxes and fees payable, deciding import and export quotas and procedures for the oil and gas industry, and setting safety, environmental and quality standards. In addition, the ex-factory price of the jet fuel (standard product) will be determined by the buyers and the sellers, subject to a limit of no more than the delivered-duty-paid Chinese main port price from Singapore market. The National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) will regularly release the delivered-duty-paid Chinese main port price for jet fuels from Singapore market. As a result, we may face constraints on our flexibility and ability to expand our business operations. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As an integrated petroleum and petrochemical company, we are subject to extensive environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations permit: · the imposition of fees for the discharge of waste substances; · the levy of fines and payments for damages for serious environmental offenses; and 11 · the government, at its discretion, to close any facility which fails to comply with orders and require it to correct or stop operations causing environmental damage. Our production activities produce substantial amounts of liquid, gas and solid waste materials. In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to renewal, modification and revocation. We have established a system to treat waste materials to prevent and reduce pollution. However, the PRC government has moved, and may move further, toward more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws, and toward the adoption of more stringent environmental standards, which, in turn, would require us to incur additional expenditures on environmental matters. Some of our development plans require compliance with state policies and governmental regulation We are currently engaged in a number of construction, renovation and expansion projects. Some of our large construction, renovation and expansion projects are subject to governmental confirmation and registration. The timing and cost of completion of these projects will depend on numerous factors, including when we can receive the required confirmation and registration from relevant PRC government authorities and the general economic condition in China. If any of our important projects required for our future growth are not confirmed or registered, or not confirmed or registered in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Government control of currency conversion and exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our operations and financial results. We receive a significant majority of our revenues in Renminbi. A portion of such revenues will need to be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency needs, which include, among other things: · import of crude oil and other materials; · debt service on foreign currency-denominated debt; · purchases of imported equipment; · payment of the principals and interests of bonds issued overseas; and · payment of any cash dividends declared in respect of the H shares (including ADS). The existing foreign exchange regulations have significantly reduced government foreign exchange controls for transactions under the current account, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions and payment of dividends. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange for capital expenditures. The PRC government has stated publicly that it intends to make the Renminbi freely convertible in the future. However, we cannot predict whether the PRC government will continue its existing foreign exchange policy and when the PRC government will allow free conversion of Renminbi. The exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, the changes in the PRC’s and international political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of foreign currencies. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China decided to further promote the reform of Renminbi exchange rate formation mechanism, and improve the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Since we purchase a significant portion of the crude oil from international suppliers, and the purchase prices are benchmarked to US dollar-denominated international prices, fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollars and certain other foreign currencies may materially and adversely affect our crude oil purchase cost. Risks relating to enforcement of shareholder rights; Mandatory arbitration. Currently, the primary sources of shareholder rights are our articles of association, the PRC Company Law and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, which, among other things, impose certain standards of conduct, fairness and disclosure on us, our directors and our controlling shareholder. In general, their provisions for protection of shareholder's rights and access to information are different from those applicable to companies incorporated in the United 12 States, the United Kingdom and other Western countries. In addition, the mechanism for enforcement of rights under the corporate framework to which we are subject may also be relatively undeveloped and untested. To our knowledge, there has not been any published report of judicial enforcement in the PRC by H share shareholders of their rights under constituent documents of joint stock limited companies or the PRC Company Law or in the application or interpretation of the PRC or Hong Kong regulatory provisions applicable to PRC joint stock limited companies. We cannot assure you that our shareholders will enjoy protections that they may be entitled in other jurisdictions. China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom or most other Western countries, and therefore recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in any of these jurisdictions in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may not be assured. Our articles of association as well as the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange provide that most disputes between holders of H shares and us, our directors, supervisors, officers or holders of domestic shares, arising out of the articles of association or the PRC Company Law concerning the affairs of our company, are to be resolved through arbitration by arbitration organizations in Hong Kong or the PRC, rather than through a court of law. On June 18, 1999, an arrangement was made between Hong Kong and the PRC for the mutual enforcement of arbitral awards. This new arrangement was approved by the Supreme People's Court of the PRC and the Hong Kong Legislative Council, and became effective on February 1, 2000. We are uncertain as to the outcome of any action brought in China to enforce an arbitral award granted to shareholders. Our investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB’s oversight of our independent registered public accounting firm through inspections. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, has the authority and is required to conduct continuing inspections of registered public accounting firms that provide audit services to public companies subject to the reporting requirements of the SEC. Our external auditor is registered with the PCAOB and is subject to inspections by the PCAOB. However, the PCAOB is currently unable to inspect a registered public accounting firm’s audit work related to a company’s operations in China and where such documentation of the audit work is located in China. As a result, our investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB’s oversight of our independent registered public accounting firm through such inspections. 