Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risk factors in addition to the other information included in this report. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or other securities. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our planned development activity, acquisitions or service our debt. We have historically needed and will continue to need substantial amounts of cash to fund our capital expenditure and working capital requirements. Our ongoing capital requirements consist primarily of funding development and exploration of our oil and gas reserves, acquisitions and abandonment of oil and gas properties and to meet our debt service obligations. Cash paid for capital expenditures for oil and gas properties was approximately $917.5 million, $849.5 million, and $577.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Development and exploration costs accounted for 100%, 96% and 94%, respectively, of the total capital expenditures during those three years. During 2009, we plan to finance anticipated expenses, debt service, development, exploration, acquisition and abandonment requirements with available cash, funds generated by operating activities and potentially net cash proceeds from the sales of assets. We have been dependent on debt and equity financing to fund our cash needs that were not funded from operations or the sale of assets. Since mid 2008, the capital markets in the United States and the remainder of the world have been in disarray. There have been few capital market transactions completed and those that have been completed have been very expensive compared to historical levels. In addition, low commodity prices, production problems, disappointing drilling results and other factors beyond our control could reduce our funds from operations and may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or to pay interest and principal on our debt obligations. Furthermore, we have incurred losses in the past that may affect our ability to obtain financing. Quantifying or predicting the likelihood of any or all of these occurring is difficult in the current domestic and world economy. For these reasons, financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital is required but not available on acceptable terms, we would curtail our acquisition, drilling, development and other activities or be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. The global financial crisis may materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations in amounts and ways that we currently cannot predict. The continued credit crisis and related turmoil in the global financial system may have an impact on our industry, our business and our financial condition. This stress in the markets may cause us to face greater challenges if conditions in the financial markets do not improve. Our ability to access the capital markets or to consummate planned asset sales may be restricted at a time when we would like or need to raise capital, impairing our ability to react to changing economic and business conditions, or modifying or interrupting our business plans. The current economic situation could lead to reduced demand for oil and natural gas, or lower prices for oil and natural gas, or both, which could have a negative impact on our revenues, the value of our assets and our ability to meet our obligations. Further, the economic situation could also impact our lenders, customers and hedging counterparties and may cause them to fail to meet their obligations to us with little or no warning. 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have had in the past and could have in the future a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on the prices we realize for our oil and natural gas production. Our realized prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile in the future. For example, oil and natural gas prices increased significantly in late 2000 and early 2001 and then steadily declined in 2001. This phenomenon occurred again beginning in 2004 when oil began to climb reaching an all-time high in mid 2008. By the end of 2008, oil had lost nearly two thirds of its value dropping from a high of $146 per barrel in July 2008 to a close of $45 per barrel in December 2008. Among the factors that have caused and may continue to cause this volatility are: • worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; • the devaluation and subsequent revaluation of the U.S. dollar against other currencies; • weather conditions; • domestic and foreign governmental regulations and lack of regulations; • speculation by non-energy companies buying and selling commodities with no intention to receive physical delivery; • political conditions in natural gas or oil producing regions; • the ability or inability of members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. It is impossible to predict oil and natural gas price movements with certainty. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per-unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily move together. We have debt, trade payables and related interest payment requirements that may restrict our future operations and impair our ability to meet our obligations. Our trade payables, related interest payment requirements and scheduled debt maturities may have important negative consequences. For instance, they could: • make it more difficult or render us unable to satisfy these or our other financial obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less financial leverage; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and commitments depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet these obligations. The inability to meet our financial obligations and commitments will impede the successful execution of our business strategy and the maintenance of our economic viability. Our debt instruments impose restrictions on us that may affect our ability to successfully operate our business. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements During June 2008, we, Credit Suisse (as Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent for the lenders) and the lenders named therein entered into a new senior secured term loan facility (“Term Loans”). The terms of the Term Loans require us to comply with certain covenants. Capitalized terms are defined in the Term Loans. The covenants include: • Minimum Current Ratio of 1.0 to 1.0; • Ratio of Total Net Debt to the Consolidated EBITDAX of not greater than 3.0 to 1.0 at the end of each quarter; • Ratio of Consolidated EBITDAX to Consolidated Interest Expense of not less than 2.5 to 1.0 for any four consecutive fiscal quarters; • Ratio of pre-tax PV-10 of our total Proved Developed Producing oil and gas reserves using the average of future oil and gas prices for the next three years, to Total Net Debt of at least 0.5 to 1.0 at June 30 and December 31 of any fiscal year; • Ratio of pre-tax PV-10 of our Total Proved oil and gas reserves plus 50% of our pre-tax probable oil and gas reserves, both using the average of future oil and gas prices for the next three years, to Total Net Debt of at least 2.5 to 1.0 at June 30 or December 31 of any fiscal year; • Commodity Hedging Agreements, based on forecasted production attributable to our proved developed producing reserves of (i) 60% of the projected PDP production from the Oil and Gas Properties of the Borrower and the Subsidiaries for the succeeding twelve calendar months on a rolling twelve calendar month basis and (ii) 40% of such projected PDP production on a rolling basis for the twelve calendar month period subsequent to the twelve calendar month period; • Permitted Business Investments during any fiscal year of no more than $150.0 million or 7.5% of PV-10 value of our total proved reserves; • Requirement that at least 75% of Net Cash Proceeds from all Asset Sales be applied to the Asset Sale Facility as long as any balance is outstanding on the Asset Sale Facility; • Restrictions on certain types of payments including dividends or open market purchases of common stock. These restrictions may make it difficult for us to successfully execute our business strategy or to compete in our industry with companies not similarly restricted. We were in compliance with the financial performance and the non-financial covenants applicable to our Term Loans at December 31, 2008. If we are unable to meet the requirements of our Term Loans or any new financial transaction that we may enter into, we may be required to seek waivers from our lenders and there is no assurance that such waivers would be granted. Our actual development results are likely to differ from our estimates of our oil and gas reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated and development costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. Such differences may be material. Estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and the costs and timing associated with developing these reserves may not be accurate. Additionally, approximately 84% of our total proved reserves are undeveloped. Development of these reserves may not yield the expected results, or the development may be delayed or the development costs may exceed our estimates, any of which may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Development activity may result in downward adjustments of reserves or higher than estimated costs. Our estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from such reserves are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise and the quality and reliability of this data can vary. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and PV-10 value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we will likely adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements results of development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves may vary materially from our estimates. Delays in the development of or production curtailment at our material properties may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The size of our operations and our capital expenditure budget limits the number of properties that we can develop in any given year. Complications in the development of any single material well or infrastructure installation may result in delays that would adversely effect our financial condition and results of operations. For instance, during 2008, we experienced production delays and increased costs at our High Island A-589 project in the Gulf of Mexico. During 2006 and 2007, we experienced production delays and increased development costs in connection with the development of our Tors wells in the North Sea. In addition, relatively few wells contribute a substantial portion of our production. If we were to experience operational problems or adverse commodity prices resulting in the curtailment of production in any of these wells, our total production levels would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during September 2008, Hurricane Ike caused wide-spread damage to many pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico. While our facilities suffered only minimal damage, production curtailments resulting from damages to third party infrastructure, especially downstream of the Gomez Hub, significantly impacted our cash flows for several months. Our price risk management decisions may reduce our potential gains from increases in commodity prices and may result in losses. We utilize derivative instruments and fixed-price forward sales contracts with respect to a portion of our expected production, generally not less than 40% or more than 80% of such production in order to manage our exposure to oil and natural gas price volatility. These instruments expose us to risk of financial loss if: • production is less than expected for forward sales contracts; • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument and the fixed-price forward sales contract and actual prices received. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted in the future by our derivative instruments and fixed-price forward sales contracts as these instruments may limit any benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. The unavailability or increased cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our development plans and abandonment operations within our budget. Shortages or an increase in cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea decreases the availability of offshore rigs and associated equipment. In periods of increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, we may experience increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. These costs may increase further and necessary equipment and services may not be available to us at economical prices. For the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, we recorded losses on abandonment of $13.3 million, $18.6 million and $9.6 million, respectively, primarily as a result of unanticipated increases in service costs in the Gulf of Mexico. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for us to continue operating without access to other funds. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Because third party contractors and other service providers are used in our offshore operations, we may not realize the full benefit of worker’s compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. The net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our wholly owned subsidiaries in the U.K. and the Netherlands are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the applicable local currency. These foreign operations have the potential to impact our financial position due to fluctuations in exchange rates. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will adversely affect our revenues from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will increase our development costs in our foreign operations, to the extent such costs are payable in foreign currency, when translated into U.S. dollars. We currently have no derivatives or other financial instruments in place to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign currency exchange rates. The oil and natural gas business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of a natural gas or oil well does not ensure a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both technical and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their cost, unsuccessful wells can hurt our efforts to replace reserves. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • embedded oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; • environmental accidents or hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; and • hurricanes and other natural disasters. If we experience any of these problems, it could affect well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses in excess of our insurance coverage as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Our Gulf of Mexico properties are subject to rapid production declines. Therefore, we are required to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose onshore reserves have longer production periods. We may not be able to identify or complete the acquisition of properties with sufficient proved reserves to implement our business strategy. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Production of reserves from reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico generally declines more rapidly than production from reservoirs in many other producing regions of the world. As of December 31, 2008, we projected normalized decline rates of 32% for gas and 45% for oil in our Gulf of Mexico undeveloped deepwater fields. While this results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from properties in the Gulf of Mexico during the initial years of production, we must incur significant capital expenditures to replace declining production. We may not be able to identify or complete the acquisition of properties with sufficient reserves or reservoirs to implement our business strategy. As we produce our existing reserves, we must identify, acquire and develop properties through new acquisitions or our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control or influence. A substantial decrease in the availability of oil and gas properties that meet our criteria in our areas of operation, or a substantial increase in the cost to acquire these properties, would adversely affect our ability to replace our reserves. We may incur substantial impairment write-downs. We account for our oil and gas property costs using the successful efforts accounting method. Under the successful efforts method, lease acquisition costs and intangible drilling and development costs on successful wells and development dry holes are capitalized. Costs of drilling exploratory wells are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when a well is determined to be unsuccessful. If management’s estimates of the recoverable reserves on a property are revised downward, if development costs exceed previous estimates or if oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to record additional noncash impairment write-downs in the future, which would result in a negative impact to our financial position and earnings. We review our proved oil and gas properties for impairment on a depletable unit basis when circumstances suggest there is a need for such a review. We perform an impairment analysis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. To determine if a depletable unit is impaired, we compare the carrying value of the depletable unit to the undiscounted future net cash flows by applying management’s estimates of future oil and gas prices to the estimated future production of oil and gas reserves over the economic life of the property and deducting estimated future costs. Future net cash flows are based upon reservoir engineers’ estimates of proved reserves. In addition, other factors such as probable and possible reserves are taken into consideration when justified by economic conditions and actual or planned drilling or other development activities. For a property determined to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying value and the estimated fair value of the impaired property will be recognized. Fair value, on a depletable unit basis, is estimated to be the present value of the aforementioned expected future net cash flows. Unproved properties are assessed periodically to determine whether they have been impaired. An impairment allowance is provided on an unproved property when we determine that the property will not be developed. Any impairment charge incurred is recorded in accumulated depletion, impairment and amortization to reduce our recorded basis in the asset. Each part of this calculation is subject to a large degree of judgment, including the determination of the depletable units’ estimated reserves, future net cash flows and fair value. We recorded impairments during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 totaling $124.7 million, $34.1 million and $18.5 million, respectively, on certain proved Gulf of Mexico shelf properties, primarily due to reduced commodity prices and reductions in estimates of recoverable reserves. Impairments of unproved properties were $0.4 million, $0.2 million and $1.0 million 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, related to surrendered leases. Management’s assumptions used in calculating oil and gas reserves or regarding the future cash flows or fair value of our properties are subject to change in the future. Any change could cause impairment expense to be recorded, impacting our net income or loss and our basis in the related asset. Any change in reserves directly impacts our estimate of future cash flows from the property, as well as the property’s fair value. Additionally, as commodity price forecasts change, so too will the estimate of future net cash flows and the fair value estimates. Changes in either of these amounts will directly impact the calculation of impairment. We may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against them. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The acquisition of properties requires us to assess a number of factors, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion, when an inspection is made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities that it created. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller than some of our competitors in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies for property acquisitions. We also compete for the equipment and labor required to operate and to develop these properties. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and acquire a greater number of properties than we can. Our ability to acquire additional properties and develop new and existing properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Our success depends on our management team and other key personnel, the loss of any of whom could disrupt our business operations. Our success will depend on our ability to retain and attract experienced geoscientists and other professional staff. As of December 31, 2008, we had 22 engineers, geologist/geophysicists and other technical personnel in our Houston office, three engineers, geologist/geophysicists and other technical personnel in our U.K. location and one engineer in our Netherlands office. We depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of these personnel and members of our management team. If a significant number of them resign or become unable to continue in their present role and if they are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be adversely affected. Members of our management team own a significant amount of common stock, giving them influence in corporate transactions and other matters, and the interests of these individuals could differ from those of other shareholders. Members of our management team beneficially own approximately 20% of our outstanding shares of common stock. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our articles of incorporation or bylaws and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Their influence may delay or prevent a change of control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. Rapid growth may place significant demands on our resources. We have experienced rapid growth in our operations and expect that significant expansion of our operations will continue. Our rapid growth has placed, and our anticipated future growth will continue to place, a significant demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources due to: • the need to manage relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties; • difficulties in hiring and retaining skilled personnel necessary to support our business; • the need to train and manage a growing employee base; and • pressures for the continued development of our financial and information management systems. If we have not made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with this expansion or if our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations, our business could be adversely impacted. Terrorist attacks or similar hostilities may adversely impact our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The terrorist attacks that took place in the United States on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely impact our business. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. The continuation of these developments may subject our operations to increased risks and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. As discussed above, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 