RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Hurricanes and other natural disasters have adversely affected our business and could continue to do so in the future. The southeast region of Mexico, like other Caribbean destinations, experiences hurricanes, particularly during the third quarter of each year. Portions of the southeast region also experience earthquakes from time to time. Natural disasters may impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our operations and/or adversely affect the destinations served by our airports. Any of these events could reduce our passenger traffic volume. The occurrence of natural disasters in the destinations we serve has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. We have insured the physical facilities at our airports against damage caused by natural disasters, accidents or other similar events, but do not have insurance covering losses due to resulting business interruption. Moreover, should losses occur, there can be no assurance that losses caused by damages to the physical facilities will not exceed the pre-established limits on the policies. As a result of the impact of Hurricane Wilma described below, the cost of our annual insurance premium covering property damage from hurricanes increased from approximately U.S.$362,000 before Hurricane Wilma to U.S.$2.6 million currently. On October 21, 2005, Hurricane Wilma struck the Yucatan Peninsula, causing severe damage to the infrastructure of the Cancun and Cozumel airports and to our administrative office building in Cancun. Cancun and Cozumel airports were closed for approximately 62 hours and 42 hours, respectively, and airport operations were disrupted for several weeks thereafter. We were instructed by the Mexican government to repair Cancun Airport’s Terminal 1 building, and to put it back into service. The hurricane also inflicted extensive damage on the hotel and tourist infrastructure in Cancun, the Mayan Riviera region and Cozumel, which led to sharply reduced air passenger traffic at our airports, especially in the fourth quarter of 2005 and during the first half of 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our passenger traffic decreased 33.1%, and revenues and operating income fell 32.6% and 86.5%, respectively, relative to the same period in 2004, reflecting the decline in passenger traffic. Due to a recovery in the second half of 2006, however, our total passenger for the year 2006 traffic rose 3.44%, our revenues rose 4.26% and our operating income was nearly unchanged (down 0.26%), each as compared to 2005. While tourism in Cancun and the Mayan Riviera has by now largely recovered from Hurricane Wilma, Cozumel is still in the process of recovering. Other hurricanes, such as Hurricane Emily in July 2005 and Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, have also affected our operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from Cancun International Airport. In 2005 and 2006, Ps.1,608.9 million and Ps.1,693.5 million, respectively, or 74.9% and 75.6% respectively, of our revenues were derived from operations at Cancun International Airport. During 2005 and 2006, Cancun International Airport represented 69.8% and 70.6%, respectively, of our passenger traffic and 44.7% and 44.1%, respectively, of our air traffic movements. The desirability of Cancun as a tourist destination and the level of tourism to the area is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that tourism in Cancun will not decline in the future, or that it will return to levels recorded before Hurricane Wilma. Any event or condition affecting Cancun International Airport or the areas that it serves could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks had a severe impact on the international air travel industry and adversely affected our business. Similar events may do so again in the future. The events of September 11, 2001 resulted in a significant decline in passenger traffic worldwide and future terrorist attacks could result in similar declines. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. In Mexico, airline and passenger traffic decreased substantially, although the decrease was less severe than in the United States. Our airports experienced a significant decline in passenger traffic following September 11, 2001. Any future terrorists attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Security enhancements following the events of September 11, 2001 have resulted in increased costs and may expose us to greater liability. The air travel business is susceptible to increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance and fuel costs. Following the events of September 11, we reinforced security at our airports. For a description of the security measures that we adopted, see “