D. Risk Factors Investing in our securities involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this annual report, before you decide whether to invest in our securities. Risks Related to Our Business We have experienced losses and may not maintain profitability. We experienced a loss during the years ended August 31, 2012 and 2011 and it is possible we will experience losses in the future. In addition, we expect that our operating expenses and business development expenses will increase as we enroll more students, acquire new schools and continue to expand our program offerings through our acquisitions. As a result, there can be no assurance we will be able to generate sufficient revenues to maintain profitability. Our education business expansion plans are currently focused on establishing Global Learning Network Center classrooms (“GLN Centers”) at institutions overseas where we have established partnerships, which is an unproven business model. Our focus on delivering programs and courses to students overseas has been to establish partnerships with overseas education institutions where we set up GLN Centers with video-conferencing technology. Sprott-Shaw, KGIC and CIBT then deliver their programs to overseas students at the remote GLN Centers from our studios located in Vancouver and Beijing, which streamlines our course offerings, generates economies of scale by reducing our overhead costs and we believe provides us with a competitive advantage by allowing us to offer a western style education, which is in high demand, to students in their home countries at a comparatively lower cost than establishing physical centers and hiring North American and European instructors to teach overseas. For our year ended August 31, 2012, we continued to teach numerous classes using the GLN Centers in China and our teaching studios in Vancouver and Beijing. Our management expects to further utilize the network to offer additional programs during the current fiscal year. However, if students from new programs do not accept this new method of education, or technological advances become too costly to implement within our existing infrastructure, we may be forced to deviate from or change our business model and revenues generated from our education business may be adversely impacted. Additionally, the GLN Center platform may impact our ability to encourage students to transfer to the Canadian campuses of our subsidiaries. Encouraging such conversion is one of our business objectives. This may result in a missed opportunity to derive greater tuition revenues through such conversions, thereby having an adverse impact on our business. 7 Delivering programs and courses through our GLN Centers exposes our schools to the risk of infringement of their intellectual property rights and to potential theft of their course content and materials. The programs and courses delivered by our schools through our GLN Centers to students overseas are susceptible to theft by third parties and may result in the infringement of the intellectual property rights of our subsidiary schools. Technology exists to allow third parties to gain unauthorized access to video conferencing calls, and to course materials we make available to our students online. Although we have implemented sophisticated third party software that provides security to protect against unauthorized access, and we plan to continually upgrade our security software in step with changing advances in technology, we may be required to take further precautions in the future, which may be costly and time consuming to implement. Despite our efforts, the risk of breach cannot be completely eliminated. For example, the security software we utilize may be unable to stay ahead of changing methods to breach such software. Policing unauthorized access to our technology and theft of our program and course content could prove to be costly if we are forced to pursue litigation to prevent unauthorized use of stolen program or course content. This could divert the attention of our management or materially disrupt the conduct of operations of our subsidiary schools, which may in turn impact our revenues, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to continually enhance our online courses and services and adapt to rapid changes in technological demands and student needs, we may lose market share and our business could be adversely affected. Widespread use of the Internet, video-conferencing and other technologies for educational delivery purposes is a relatively recent development. The market for live courses and services is characterized by rapid technological changes and innovations, as well as unpredictable product life cycles and user preferences. A portion of our revenues is derived from offering online courses and services. As such, we must be able to adapt quickly to changing student needs and preferences, technological advances and evolving Internet practices in order to compete successfully in the online education industry. Ongoing enhancement of our online offerings and technologies may entail significant expenses and technological risks. We may be unable to adapt to new or changing technologies, effectively integrate such new or changing technologies into our existing infrastructure, or fail to adapt to changes in the online video conferencing education market on a timely and cost-effective basis. We began offering online video conferencing courses in September 2008 through a GLN teaching studio located in Beijing, China and since that time we have expanded our teaching facilities with a GLN teaching studio built in Vancouver, Canada in March 2011 that we have been offering online conference courses from since its completion. However, if improvements to our online video conferencing offerings and technologies are not implemented on an ongoing basis, there are systems interruptions or our technologies and video conferencing offerings are not aligned with student expectations or preferences, our enrollment levels may be negatively affected, which may have an adverse impact on our profitability. We will need additional capital to fully carry out our proposed expansion plan, and we may not be able to further implement our business strategy unless sufficient funds are raised, which could cause us to scale back our proposed plans or discontinue our expansion. We estimate that we will require approximately $1,000,000 in order to carry out our expansion plan for fiscal 2013. This may require additional financing. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $7,964,476 and a working capital deficit of approximately $6,713,511 as at August 31, 2012. Sprott-Shaw also has a demand operating credit facility available in the amount of $1,500,000 with interest calculated at the prime rate plus 2%. As at August 31, 2012, the demand operating credit facility was not utilized. We plan to obtain the necessary additional funds from Sprott-Shaw’s unused credit facility, the sale of our securities or loans, if required. However, there can be no assurance that we will obtain the financing required, or at all. If we are not able to obtain the necessary additional financing, we may be forced to scale back our expansion plans or eliminate them altogether. Expending our cash resources on expansions could also negatively impact our current operations by reducing the amount of funds available to cover additional expenses that may arise in the future or offset losses should we suffer a decrease in revenues. 8 Historically, we have funded our operations primarily from the proceeds of share issuances. However, our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including market conditions and their impact on the market price of our common shares, the downturn in the global economy and resulting impact on stock markets and investor sentiment, our competitive ability, investor acceptance of our business or our expansion plan, and the political and economic environments of countries where we are doing business. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will have to significantly reduce, delay or cancel our planned expansion activities. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to successfully conduct our expansion, or that we will be able to obtain any additional funding required, in which event we may not be able to continue our expansion or our expansion plan may fail. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our plans, or any of them. The expansion of our business through acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic transactions creates risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate receiving from these strategic transactions. We intend to enter into acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic transactions, directly or through our subsidiaries CIBT, Sprott-Shaw or the KGIC Colleges, as vehicles to acquire new campuses or schools to expand our education business in Canada, China and other countries. We are always seeking out new business acquisitions, partnership opportunities and joint ventures to expand our operations. Our management is unable to predict whether or when any other future strategic transactions will occur, including identifying suitable acquisition targets, partnership opportunities or joint venture partners, or the likelihood of any particular transaction being completed on terms and conditions that are favorable to us. Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions may present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including but not limited to maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality and our culture to ensure that our brand recognition does not suffer. We may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving a predecessor company, or contingent liabilities incurred before a strategic transaction. Liabilities associated with an acquisition or a strategic transaction could adversely affect our financial performance. Any failure to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance. The operations of any businesses acquired by us in the future are subject to their own risks, which we may not be able to manage successfully. Our plan is to continue to expand our business through acquisitions that our management believes will complement and enhance our existing business, by acquiring businesses or assets that our management determines to be suitable, and as our resources allow. The financial results of any businesses acquired by us in the future may be subject to many of the same factors that affect our financial condition and results of operations, including the seasonal nature of the education business, exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations, the competitive nature of the market or markets in which the acquired business operates, fluctuating levels of enrollment and regulatory, legislative and judicial developments. The financial results of any businesses acquired in the future could be materially adversely affected as a result of any of these or other related factors, which we may not be able to manage successfully, and which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition on a consolidated basis. We may have only limited recourse for losses relating to an acquisition. The due diligence conducted in connection with an acquisition made by us and the indemnification that may be provided in the related acquisition agreement may not be sufficient to protect us from, or compensate us for, losses resulting from such acquisition. Subject to certain exceptions, the seller may only be liable for misrepresentations or breaches of representations and warranties for several months from the closing date of the acquisition. A material loss associated with the acquisition for which there is no adequate remedy under the acquisition agreement that becomes known to us after that time could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition and reduce the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. 9 We may not be able to improve the operating performance and financial results or lower the costs of services provided as planned. While we believe that there usually are a number of opportunities to reduce operating costs and improve the financial results of businesses acquired by us, we cannot fully evaluate the feasibility of our plans until we control the acquired business. We may not be able to achieve our planned operating improvements, cost reductions or expected synergies in our expected time periods, if at all. In addition, some of the improvements we plan to implement may depend upon capital expenditure projects at the acquired business. Such capital projects may not be completed in our expected time periods, if at all, may not achieve the results that we have estimated or may have a cost substantially in excess of our planned amounts. This could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition on a consolidated basis. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our school network may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities. We plan to pursue a number of different strategies to expand our operations, including acquiring existing education institutions that align with our business plan, exporting our Sprott-Shaw and CIBT programs to Asia, expanding our network of agents who recruit students on our behalf, importing international students to Canada who will pay higher international fees, thereby generating more revenues than domestic students, enhancing our infrastructure in China and Canada, and expanding our presence worldwide through a combination of acquiring other businesses with established campuses or entering into joint ventures or partnerships with other educational institutions to expand the number of our GLN Centers. We acquired Sprott-Shaw in December 2007 and have since expanded its program offerings and partnerships, and we acquired the assets of KGIC on March 15, 2010. The rapid pace at which we have expanded and plan to continue expanding in the future may place substantial demands on our management, faculty, operational, technological and other resources. In particular, we may face challenges in the following areas: ● maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality and our culture to ensure that recognition of our brands does not suffer; ● improving our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our internal control over financial reporting; ● recruiting, training and retaining additional qualified instructors and management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets; and ● continuing to market the CIBT and Sprott-Shaw brands to recruit new students for existing and future learning centers. We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities or effectively run our existing operations, which in turn may have a material adverse impact on our business, our internal control over financial reporting, our financial condition and our results of operations. 10 Our students in Canada are subject to risks relating to financial aid and student loans. A substantial decrease in government student loans, or a significant increase in financing costs for our students, could have a material adverse affect on student enrollment and financial results. Sprott-Shaw’s students in Canada are highly dependent on government-funded financial aid programs. Students apply for student loans on an annual basis. If there are changes to financial aid program regulations that restrict student eligibility or reduce funding levels for student loans, our enrollment and/or collection of student billings may suffer, causing revenues to decline. As a result, we are indirectly dependent upon and affected by government-funded financial aid programs that may be available to our students. The student loan lending criteria within British Columbia, Canada has become more stringent over the twelve months ended August 31, 2012. Sprott-Shaw has taken measures to reduce campus locations in remote areas, where campuses were unprofitable and were burdened with high levels of student loans, thereby reducing student enrollment counts. Additional stringency in student loan criteria in the future could reduce our enrollment counts further. Students also receive a tax deduction for all or a portion of the amount of tuition paid by the student in a particular tax year, and an amount for textbooks (called an education tax credit) that is based on whether the student attended on a “full-time” or “part-time” basis, as set out in applicable Canadian and provincial income tax laws. The availability of these tax credits may impact the financial ability of our students to enroll in our programs and if such tax credits were to be eliminated or reduced, our enrollment levels may decline further, which could result in a decrease in our revenues. If our campuses and education facilities in Canada are not certified as eligible educational institutions in accordance with the requirements of applicable student loan regulations at the federal and provincial levels, our students will not be eligible for student loans if they enroll in our programs and we could suffer from reduced enrollment levels, which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues. As of August 31, 2012, approximately 43% of Sprott-Shaw’s students received a form of government student financial assistance. Private educational institutions must be certified on a campus by campus basis in order for their students to be eligible to apply for student loan and student grant funding. Certifications are valid for a period of up to five years, subject to review by the granting authority. There are also a number of administrative requirements that must be complied with in order to maintain an existing certification. Sprott-Shaw employs a manager of Student Services and two other staff members whose responsibilities include the oversight of each campus’ compliance program with the administrative requirements to maintain their student loan accreditations. In addition, Sprott-Shaw’s head office and StudentAid BC each conducts semi-annual audits to verify that the campuses are in compliance. However, there can be no assurance that our campuses will maintain their existing certifications and that any new campuses will be certified in the future. See “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects – Uncertainties of Government Policies” for more information on the certification process. Our subsidiary, KGIC is required to submit audited financial statements related to programs being offered in Ontario to the Ministry of Training, Colleges and Universities (“MTCU”) for purposes of being granted MCTU accreditation. Traditionally the financial statements for KGIC have been consolidated across Canada. We submitted a proposal to submit standalone audited financial statements for programs in Ontario related to the MTCU accreditation only, and while the proposal is being reviewed, MTCU is allowing KGIC to retain its accreditation. For fiscal 2013, we will prepare standalone financial statements in accordance with MTCU requirements. There is no guarantee that our currently certified facilities, such as the Sprott Shaw’s and KGIC’s facilities in British Columbia and Ontario, will continue to be certified in the future. Any loss of certification would be on a campus by campus basis, rather than on an entity-wide basis, which would reduce the impact on our operating results. Additionally, the requirements to obtain certification or maintain an existing certification may change, making it more difficult to become certified, limiting the number of certifications granted or increasing the number of administrative requirements to maintain an existing certification. If we were to lose certifications for a number of our campuses, our enrollment levels would in all likelihood decrease, which would negatively impact our financial condition, results of operations and the value of your investment in us. 11 If we are not able to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses and the amount of course fees that our students are willing to pay. Our ability to continue increasing our student enrollment levels without a significant decrease in course fees is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new programs and enhance existing programs to respond to changes in market trends and student demands, manage our growth while maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, develop and license additional high-quality educational content and respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without a significant decrease in course fees, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. If we fail to develop and introduce new courses, services and products that meet our students’ expectations, our competitive position and ability to generate revenues may be materially and adversely affected. Our core business is centered on providing our education programs and training services in Canada and in urban communities in China, the Philippines and other overseas areas where our subsidiary schools operate. As the growing trend toward urbanization is expected to result in more people seeking job and career advancement opportunities in urban areas, we may have to develop new courses, services and products to remain competitive and generate revenues. Unexpected technical, operational, logistical, regulatory or other problems could delay or prevent the introduction of one or more new programs or services. Moreover, we cannot assure you that any of these programs or services will match the quality or popularity of those developed by our competitors, achieve widespread market acceptance or generate the desired level of income. An increase in interest rates could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain students. Some of our students finance their education through private loans that are not subsidized. If our students’ employment circumstances are adversely affected by regional, national or global economic downturns, they may be more heavily dependent on student loans. Interest rates have reached relatively low levels in recent years, creating a favorable borrowing environment for students. However, in the event interest rates increase, our students may have to pay higher interest rates on their loans. Any future increase in interest rates will result in a corresponding increase in educational costs to our existing and prospective students, which could result in a significant reduction in our student population and revenues. If we cannot maintain student enrollments, our results of operations may be adversely affected. Our strategy for growth and profitability depends, in part, upon the retention of our students. While we provide certain services to our students in an effort to aid in retaining students and lower attrition rates, many of our students may face financial, personal, or family constraints that require them to withdraw within a term or at the end of a given term. Additionally, some students may decide to continue their education at a different institution. If for any reason we are unable to attract qualified new students, or are unable to effectively predict and manage student attrition, overall enrollment levels are likely to decline. If we cannot attract and retain our current students, our business, prospects, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. 12 Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on our seasonal student enrollment patterns. Our business is seasonal in nature. Sprott-Shaw and CIBT receive a large portion of their cash flows at the beginning of each new school year in September and cash flows increase again in the summer when KGIC generates revenue with its summer courses, which typically have high levels of enrollment. KGIC’s cash flows are received primarily in June due to the increase in student enrollments in its summer camp programs. Accordingly, our results in a given quarter may not be indicative of our results in any subsequent quarter or annually. Changes in our total student population may influence our quarterly results of operations. Our student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Our institutes’ academic schedule generally does not affect our costs and our costs do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Fluctuations in quarterly results, however, may impact management's ability to accurately project the available cash flows necessary to fund our operations. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. These patterns may change, however, as a result of new campus openings, new program offerings and increased enrollment of adult students. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and may continue to fluctuate widely in the future. The continued success and growth of our business depends upon recognition of our “CIBT”, “Sprott-Shaw”, and “KGIC” brands. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that our history of successful operations and innovative course offerings such as our 1+1 master’s degree and 2+2 bachelor’s degree programs and English as a Second Language (“ESL”) programs have increased recognition of our “CIBT”, “Sprott-Shaw” and “KGIC” brands and create a competitive advantage for us in our key markets. In the future, we will need to build upon this brand recognition to continue to attract potential students in the face of increased competition in the private education markets in Canada, China and other markets in which we operate. As we continue to expand our operations, maintaining the quality of our teaching and program offerings may be difficult to achieve. We have engaged DDB Worldwide Communications Group Inc., a leading multi-national advertising agency, to provide branding services, launch a new advertising campaign and enhance existing brand recognition for our subsidiary schools. However, we cannot be certain our marketing efforts will continue to be successful. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our programs and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive industry, and competitors with greater resources could harm our business, decrease market share and put downward pressure on our tuition rates. The post-secondary education market is highly fragmented and competitive. We compete for students with traditional public and private colleges and universities, other not-for-profit schools, including those that offer online learning programs, and alternatives to higher education, such as employment and military service. Many public and private schools, colleges, and universities offer online programs. We expect to experience additional competition in the future as more colleges, universities, and for-profit schools offer an increasing number of online programs. Public institutions receive substantial government subsidies, and public and private non-profit institutions have access to government and foundation grants, tax-deductible contributions, and other financial resources generally not available to for-profit schools. Accordingly, public and private nonprofit institutions may have instructional and support resources superior to those in the for-profit sector, and public institutions can offer substantially lower tuition prices. Some of our competitors in both the public and private sectors also have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors and may face competitive pressures that could adversely affect our business, prospects, financial condition, and results of operations. These competitive factors could cause our enrollments, revenues, and profitability to significantly decrease. 13 Compliance with rules and requirements applicable to public companies may cause us to incur increased costs, which may negatively affect our results of operations. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and related regulations implemented by the SEC, NYSE MKT LLC, Toronto Stock Exchange and Canadian securities regulators are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. We are currently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing changes to our disclosure and governance practices. We intend to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management’s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be harmed. We also expect that these new rules and regulations will make it more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain coverage. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified directors to sit on our board of directors (“Board of Directors”), particularly to serve on our audit committee and compensation committee, and qualified executive officers. We conduct our business activities in various foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to the risk of foreign investigations, claims and tax reviews. Our activities involve business relationships with teaching colleges and business associates located in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our goals over the next 12 months include expanding our CIBT GLN Centers and entering into licensing arrangements to offer our curriculum in some foreign jurisdictions. As a result, we could be involved in various foreign investigations, claims and tax reviews that arise in the course of our business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties and it is possible that some of these matters may not be resolved in our favor. Applicable taxes include value added tax, corporate income tax (profits tax), and payroll (social) taxes. Matters of taxation, as well as other areas, are subject to review and investigation by governmental authorities who are often enabled by law to impose severe fines and penalties. Any regulatory uncertainty in taxation or other areas could negatively affect us through increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation and financial condition. We may be unable to establish and maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, and as a result we may be unable to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that we include a report from management on our internal control over financial reporting in our Annual Report on Form 20-F. In addition, our independent registered public accounting firm may in the future have to attest to and report on management’s assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting if we qualify as an “accelerated filer” or “large accelerated filer”, as such terms are defined in the Exchange Act and the general rules and regulations thereunder. Our management has in the past and may in the future conclude that our internal control over financial reporting is not effective. In the process of documenting and improving our controls over financial reporting, management has identified certain material weaknesses that existed in the design or operation of our internal control over financial reporting, including ineffective control over the financial reporting of subsidiaries; insufficient numbers of accounting and finance staff to service our business segments; and ineffective controls related to the period-end financial reporting process that impacts management’s ability to oversee the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We are currently in the process of rectifying these deficiencies by engaging a technically skilled consultant to design effective internal control processes and procedures for our company, and by hiring and training additional staff with appropriate knowledge and skills to effectively work in the accounting and finance departments. In addition, other internal control issues may be discovered in the future which we may not be able to fully rectify. Moreover, even if our management concludes that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, our independent registered public accounting firm may disagree and may decline to attest to our management’s assessment or may issue an adverse opinion if required in the future. Any of these possible outcomes could result in an adverse reaction in the financial marketplace due to a loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our reporting processes, which could adversely affect the trading price of our common shares. 14 We may be negatively affected by the recent global financial market and economic crisis. The ongoing global financial crisis has adversely affected the Canadian, United States and other world economies. To address the global financial crisis, the Chinese government adopted increasingly flexible macroeconomic policies, including an announced fiscal stimulus package, aimed at offsetting the slowdown brought about by the global financial crisis, and, as a result, China’s overall economy continued to grow rapidly. However, due to, among other things, concerns about inflation and the development of a bubble in China’s housing market resulting from the fast pace of growth of its economy, the government of China in 2010 and 2011 increased interest rates, which could negatively impact China’s overall economy. In addition, the ongoing global financial crisis affecting the banking system and financial markets has resulted in a severe tightening in credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets and increased volatility in credit and equity markets. If these conditions continue or worsen, our cost of borrowing may increase and it may become more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments, which may adversely affect our business operations and implementation of our growth strategy. Because our assets are located outside of the United States and some of our directors and officers resides outside of the United States, it may be difficult for you to enforce your rights based on the United States federal securities laws against us and these officers and directors in the United States or to enforce judgments of United States courts against us in China or Canada. Some of our directors and officers reside outside of the United States in China and Canada. In addition, our operating subsidiaries are located in China and Canada and substantially all of our assets are located outside of the United States. China does not have a treaty with the United States providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts. It may therefore be difficult for investors in the United States to enforce their legal rights based on the civil liability provisions of the United States federal securities laws against us and these officers and directors in the courts of either Canada or China and, even if civil judgments are obtained in courts of the United States, to enforce such judgments in Canadian or Chinese courts. Further, it is unclear if extradition treaties now in effect between the United States and China would permit effective enforcement against us or our officers and directors of criminal penalties, under the United States federal securities laws or otherwise. A portion of our Canadian business is generated through overseas recruitment activities which require students to apply for student visas, and this exposes us to the risk of visa and immigration policy changes. We have greatly increased our overseas recruitment activity and plan to continue to increase international recruitment activity as a focus in the next year. International student recruitment is subject to uncertainty regarding the student’s application for a student visa. Should the government decrease the number of student visas it offers within foreign countries in which the Company actively recruits, it could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s results of operation and financial condition. 15 Risks Related to Doing Business in China We are exposed to currency exchange risk which could cause our reported earnings or losses to fluctuate. The value of the renminbi (“RMB”) against the Canadian dollar fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions in China as well as the global economy. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed zone against a group of foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the RMB against the Canadian dollar during the year ended August 31, 2012. It is possible that the Chinese government could adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could increase the volatility of the exchange rate between the RMB and the U.S. dollar. We can offer no assurance that the RMB will be stable against the U.S. dollar or any other foreign currency. Our functional and reporting currency is the Canadian dollar. However, a portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in RMB. As our Chinese business grows, a greater portion of our revenues and costs are expected to be denominated in RMB. As a result, we are exposed to currency exchange risk on any assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar, including the RMB. To the extent the Canadian dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in reduced revenue, operating expenses and net income or loss for our international operations. Similarly, to the extent that the Canadian dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions results in increased revenue, operating expenses and net income or loss for our international operations. We do not currently engage in currency hedging transactions to offset fluctuating currency exchange rates. We are subject to limitations on our ability to convert Chinese currency. China's national currency, the RMB, is not a freely convertible currency. The Chinese government imposes controls on the conversion of RMB to foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. As our Chinese business expands, we expect to derive an increasing amount of our revenues in RMB. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiary and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to make payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange, or “SAFE”, by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required when RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The foreign exchange control system may prevent us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our demands, which may adversely affect our business and development. The SAFE restrictions on currency exchange may limit our ability to utilize our revenues effectively and the ability of our Chinese subsidiary to obtain financing. A portion of our revenues and operating expenses are denominated in RMB. Restrictions on currency exchange imposed by the Chinese government may limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China, if any, or expenditures denominated in foreign currencies. Under current Chinese regulations, RMB may be freely converted into foreign currency for payments relating to “current account transactions”, which include among other things dividend payments and payments for the import of goods and services, by complying with certain procedural requirements. Our Chinese subsidiary may also retain foreign exchange in their respective current account bank accounts. 16 However, conversion of RMB into foreign currencies and of foreign currencies into RMB, for payments relating to “capital account transactions”, which principally includes investments and loans, generally requires the approval of SAFE and other relevant Chinese governmental authorities. Restrictions on the convertibility of the RMB for capital account transactions could affect the ability of our Chinese subsidiary to make investments overseas or to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, including by means of loans or capital contributions from us. Any existing and future restrictions on currency exchange may affect the ability of our Chinese subsidiary or affiliated entity to obtain foreign currencies, limit our ability to utilize revenues generated in RMB to fund our business activities outside China that are denominated in foreign currencies, or otherwise materially and adversely affect our business. If we make equity compensation grants to persons who are Chinese citizens, they may be required to register with SAFE. We may also face regulatory uncertainties that could restrict our ability to adopt equity compensation plans for our directors and employees and other parties under Chinese laws. On April 6, 2007, SAFE issued the “Operating Procedures for Administration of Domestic Individuals Participating in the Employee Stock Ownership Plan or Stock Option Plan of An Overseas Listed Company”, also known as “Circular 78.” It is not clear whether Circular 78 covers all forms of equity compensation plans or only those which provide for the granting of stock options. For any plans which are so covered and are adopted by a non-Chinese listed company, such as our company, after April 6, 2007, Circular 78 requires all participants who are Chinese citizens to register with and obtain approvals from SAFE prior to their participation in the plan. In addition, Circular 78 also requires Chinese citizens to register with SAFE and make the necessary applications and filings if they participated in an overseas listed company’s covered equity compensation plan prior to April 6, 2007. We believe that the registration and approval requirements contemplated in Circular 78 will be burdensome and time consuming. In the future, we may adopt an equity incentive plan and make numerous stock option grants under the plan to our officers, directors and employees, some of whom may be Chinese citizens and may be required to register with SAFE. If it is determined that any of our equity compensation plans are subject to Circular 78, failure to comply with such provisions may subject us and participants of our equity incentive plan who are Chinese citizens to fines and legal sanctions and prevent us from being able to grant equity compensation to our Chinese employees. In that case, our ability to compensate our employees and directors through equity compensation would be hindered and our business operations may be adversely affected. We depend upon the acquisition and maintenance of numerous approvals to conduct our business in China. Failure to obtain or renew these approvals will adversely affect our operation in China. We are dependent upon certain approvals in China, including, without limitation, campus approvals, and program approvals, to conduct our business. While we believe that all steps necessary to obtain or maintain these approvals have been taken and will be taken, the failure to obtain or renew these approvals could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. It is also possible that new laws and regulations governing the education business in China will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in the education business generally, which could prevent us from obtaining or renewing our governmental approvals. Accordingly, we may have to cease our education business in China, which would significantly impact the scope of our operations and may materially adversely impact our results of operations. The following permits and licenses we previously obtained have expired: our joint programs between CIBT and Western International University (“WIU”) expired on April 1, 2008; between CIBT and ITT Educational Service expired on August 31, 2007; and between CIBT and Beijing University of Technology (“BJUT”) expired on August 31, 2011. Our Boeing MBA program in cooperation with City University expired on June 1, 2007. Also our regular MBA program in cooperation with City University was terminated in October 2010. 17 During the application or renewal process for our licenses and permits, we will be evaluated and re-evaluated by the appropriate governmental authorities and must comply with the prevailing standards and regulations, which may change from time to time. In the event that we are not able to obtain or renew the certificates, permits and licenses, all or part of our operations may be suspended by the government, which would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial condition. Furthermore, if escalating compliance costs associated with governmental standards and regulations restrict or prohibit any part of our operations, it may materially adversely affect our results of operations and profitability. The education sector, in which most of our business is conducted, is subject to extensive regulation in China. Our ability to conduct business is highly dependent on our compliance with the regulatory framework in China. The Chinese government regulates all aspects of the education sector, including licensing of parties to perform various services, pricing of tuition and other fees, curriculum content and standards for the operations of schools and learning centers associated with foreign participation. The laws and regulations applicable to the education sector are in some aspects vague and uncertain, and often lack detailed implementing regulations. These laws and regulations are subject to change, and new laws and regulations may be adopted, some of which may have retroactive application or have a negative effect on our business. For example, in 2003, the Chinese government adopted a new regulatory framework for Chinese-foreign cooperation in education. This new framework may encourage institutions with more experience, better reputations, greater technological know-how and larger financial resources than we have to compete against us and limit our growth. In addition, because the Chinese government and the public view the conduct of educational institutions as a vital social service, there is considerable ongoing scrutiny of the education sector and its participants. Chinese regulators have broad powers to regulate the tuition and other fees charged by schools and, as a result, can adversely impact the fees we receive from the provision of our services. While China’s regulatory framework provides that investors in private schools are entitled to receive a “reasonable return” on their investment, there is no clear guidance in law as to what this term means. We must comply with China’s extensive regulations on private and foreign participation in the education sector. Although our corporate structure and business are designed to comply with the limitations on foreign investment and participation in the education sector, we cannot assure you that we will not be found to be in violation of any current or future Chinese laws and regulations. According to the new company law of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) enacted January 1, 2006, the PRC corporations shall have a board of supervisors or a supervisor in addition to a board of directors. Our two subsidiaries in China, Beijing Fenghua Education Consulting Co., Ltd. and Weifang Jiahua Education Consulting Co., Ltd., currently have no supervisor or board of supervisors. Therefore, the State Administration of Industry and Commerce (“SAIC”) may request that either or both of the two subsidiaries revise their articles of association and establish a board of supervisors when they apply for renewal of their business licenses with the SAIC in the future. According to the regulations on “Chinese-foreign Cooperation in Running a School” and the “Rules on Administration of Private Non-enterprise Unit Registration”, a Chinese-foreign cooperative joint venture school without legal person status requires approval from the Ministry of Education (“MOE”), a central state government authority in charge of foreign cooperation, or a certificate of Chinese-foreign cooperation in running a school from the provincial government. Our subsidiary schools operating in China have obtained all necessary approvals. However, there can be no assurance that such approvals will be obtained in the future. The inability of our subsidiary schools to obtain approvals in the future could have a material adverse effect on the operations of CIBT. 18 Chinese economic, political and social conditions, as well as changes in any government policies, laws and regulations, could adversely affect the overall economy in China or the prospects of the education market, which in turn could adversely affect our business. A portion of our operations are conducted in China, and a significant amount of our revenues are derived from China. Accordingly, our business, financial condition, results of operations, prospects and certain transactions we may undertake are subject, to a significant extent, to economic, political and legal developments in China. The Chinese economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. While the Chinese economy has experienced significant growth in the past two to three decades, growth has been uneven, both geographically and among various sectors of the economy. Demand for our programs and services depends, in large part, on economic conditions in China. Any slowdown in China’s economic growth may cause our potential customers to delay or cancel their plans to participate in our educational services, which in turn could reduce our revenues. Although the Chinese economy has been transitioning from a planned economy to a more market-oriented economy since the late 1970s, the Chinese government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies. The Chinese government also exercises significant control over China’s economic growth through the allocation of resources, controlling the incurrence and payment of foreign currency-denominated obligations, setting monetary policy and providing preferential treatment to particular industries or companies. Changes in any of these policies, laws and regulations could adversely affect the overall economy in China or the prospects of the education market, which could harm our business. The Chinese government has implemented various measures to encourage foreign investment and sustainable economic growth and to guide the allocation of financial and other resources, which have for the most part had a positive effect on our business and growth. However, we cannot assure you that the Chinese government will not repeal or alter these measures or introduce new measures that will have a negative effect on us. China’s social and political conditions are also not as stable as those of the United States and other developed countries. Any sudden changes to China’s political system or the occurrence of widespread social unrest could have negative effects on our business and results of operations. In addition, China has tumultuous relations with some of its neighbors, including India, and a significant further deterioration in such relations could have negative effects on the Chinese economy and lead to changes in governmental policies that could be adverse to our business interests. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not relied upon as precedents. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited number of published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Operating in China involves a high risk that restrictive rules and regulations could change at any time. Chinese authorities could assert that any portion or all of our existing or future ownership structure and business violate existing or future Chinese laws and regulations and require us to curtail or cease our operations in China. 19 In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on governmental policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis, or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until after the occurrence of the violation. If Chinese authorities find us to be in violation of any Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation, the following: ● levying fines; ● revoking our business licenses and other approvals; ● requiring us to restructure our ownership or operations; and ● requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of our education business in China. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the uncertainties of the Chinese legal system or any changes in the laws and regulations that are applicable to us. We are subject to uncertainty related to the tax systems in China and any uncertainty in taxation could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Through our subsidiaries, we conduct a portion of our business in China. China currently has a number of laws related to various taxes imposed by both national and regional governmental authorities. Applicable taxes include value added tax, corporate income tax (profits tax), and payroll (social) taxes, together with others. In contrast to more developed market economies, laws related to these taxes have not been in force for a significant period, and interpretive regulations are often unclear or nonexistent. Often, there are differing opinions regarding legal interpretation, both among and within government ministries and organizations, resulting in uncertainties and areas of conflict. Matters of taxation, customs and currency control, as well as other areas, are subject to review and investigation by a number of governmental authorities, who are enabled by law to impose extremely severe fines and penalties. Any regulatory uncertainty in taxation or other areas could negatively affect us through increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We and our subsidiaries may not be able to enforce our agreements in China, which could have a negative impact on our operations. Chinese law governs many of our material agreements. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations that govern the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements. Although we use Chinese lawyers to assist us in preparing our agreements, there can be no assurance that we can enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of China. China's system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as U.S. or other laws. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws. It is also difficult to enforce foreign judgments in China. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our material agreements could have a material adverse impact on us and our results of operations. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. We expect to increase our operations within the education industry in China through our GLN Center platform. As such, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects will be affected, on an increasingly significant basis, by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The economy of China is a planned economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Policies of the Chinese government can have significant impact on the country’s economic conditions. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of a market economy under a socialist regime. We believe that in the future, the Chinese government will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in China will follow market forces. 20 However, a change in economic and political policies may adversely affect our business, prospects and financial condition, to a material extent. For example, on November 8, 2012, China had a planned change in government officials. Such measures may cause uncertainty as far as future economic policies are concerned. Any future changes in policy could in turn positively or adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our Chinese business may fail due to loss of our CIBT center facility providers and educational service providers. We are heavily dependent on facilities and services provided by certain of our third party service providers, which we refer to as “educational service providers”, in China and the U.S. Since June 2007 we have started to establish mini-campuses, or “CIBT GLN Centers” to deliver our programs via video conferencing. We plan to continue to establish teaching locations in China in 2013, so we will be heavily dependent on facilities provided by certain third party universities or colleges, or “CIBT Center Facility Providers”, to set up our CIBT GLN Centers. There can be no assurance that the cooperation agreements with the educational service providers and CIBT Center Facility Providers will continue on terms acceptable to us or not be revoked by them. Also, our Chinese business is indirectly based on the success of our educational service providers and CIBT Center Facility Providers. If our existing agreements with our current educational service providers and CIBT Center Facility Providers are terminated or we decide not to renew them, we may be unable to enter into similar cooperation agreements with other parties to provide us with campuses, facilities, or services on acceptable terms, or at all, and this may materially and adversely affect our operations. For example, effective since August 31, 2012 our agreement with BJUT was terminated by mutual consent as a result of changes in market demand. The BJUT programs have been replaced with mass market programs, which have higher market demand at present. We continue to look toward mitigating our exposure to this risk through the use of subsidiary locations offering our internally developed educational content. We also continue to evaluate opportunities to expand the physical presence of our business through acquisitions that complement our existing subsidiary schools. Due to various restrictions under Chinese laws on the distribution of dividends by our Chinese operating companies, we may not be able to pay dividends to our stockholders. The Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law (1986), as amended and the Wholly-Foreign Owned Enterprise Law Implementing Rules (1990), as amended and the Company Law of the PRC (2006) contain the principal regulations governing dividend distributions by wholly foreign owned enterprises. Under these regulations, wholly foreign owned enterprises (“WFOE”), may pay dividends only out of their accumulated profits, if any, determined in accordance with Chinese accounting standards and regulations. Additionally, a WFOE is required to set aside a certain amount of its accumulated profits each year, if any, to fund certain reserve funds. These reserves are not distributable as cash dividends except in the event of liquidation and cannot be used for working capital purposes. Furthermore, if our consolidated subsidiaries in China incur debt on their own in the future, the instruments governing the debt may restrict our ability to pay dividends or make other payments. If we or our consolidated subsidiaries are unable to receive all of the revenues from our operations as a result of the aforementioned contractual or dividend arrangements, we may be unable to pay dividends on our common shares. 21 Operating Risks The slowdown of economic growth in Canada, China and elsewhere has and may continue to negatively affect our profitability and growth. The economic downturn has reduced the demand for premium program offerings by students in China. As a result, CIBT’s revenue from its operations in China declined for the year ended August 31, 2012 to $3,098,086, from $4,206,757 for the prior year, and we transitioned out of our premium programs that were offered jointly with BJUT. The ongoing economic downturn may continue to have a material adverse impact on the demand for enrollment in all of our programs, not solely our premium offerings, which could in turn adversely impact our business and profitability. The Chinese economy has recently showed signs of retraction. If the economy of China begins to slow significantly, unemployment levels could increase which may impact the ability of our graduates to secure positions in the workforce, negatively impacting future enrollment levels. In Canada, the economic downturn has impacted revenues for Sprott-Shaw, which also declined in the year ended August 31, 2012 as a result of, among other factors, reduced levels of enrollment due to the tightening of student loan lending criteria and reduced government training contracts as a result of reduced government spending due to general economic conditions. The economic downturn may continue to impact the demand for the educational programs offered by Sprott-Shaw and KGIC domestically in Canada. KGIC’s revenues increased as economies of scale and synergies were achieved by combining its operations with those of Sprott-Shaw. In addition, IRIX’s business may be negatively impacted as clients seek to reduce the amount spent on marketing and advertising campaigns and pursue fewer modes of advertising. Decreases in revenues generated by any of our subsidiaries due to the economic climate could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our operations are subject to various litigation risks that could increase our expenses, impact our profitability and lower the value of your investment in us. Although we are not currently involved in any significant litigation, the nature of our operations exposes us to possible future litigation claims. There is a risk that any claim could be decided against us, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the costs associated with defending against any claim could dramatically increase our expenses, as litigation is often very expensive. Possible litigation matters may include, but are not limited to, disputes stemming from cooperation agreements we or our subsidiaries entered into with other educational institutions, workers’ compensation, insurance coverage, property rights or injuries to students or faculty in our facilities. Should we become involved in any litigation we will be forced to direct our limited resources to settling or defending against or prosecuting the claim(s), which could impact our profitability and lower the value of your investment in us. Loss of certain key personnel may adversely impact our business. The success of our business will depend on the management skills of Toby Chu, our President and Chief Executive Officer, Patrick Dang, President of Sprott-Shaw, Sung Sub Lim, President of the KGIC Colleges and the relationships they and other key personnel have with educators, administrators and other business contacts they have in North America and abroad. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could impair our ability to successfully manage our domestic and international business. We also depend on successfully recruiting and retaining qualified and experienced managers, sales persons and other personnel who can function effectively in Canada and abroad. In some cases, the market for these skilled employees is highly competitive. We may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel on acceptable terms to us, which could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. 22 Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs. Our success depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses and the amount of course fees such students are willing to pay. Our ability to continue increasing our student enrollment levels without a significant decrease in course fees is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new programs and enhance existing programs to respond to changes in market trends and student demands, manage our growth while maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, develop and license additional high-quality educational content and to respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without a significant decrease in course fees, our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Our agreement with The American Hotel and Lodging Association Educational Institute (“AHL-EI”) expires in December 2012 and will not be renewed, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition for our China hotel program division. CIBT was the sole distributor of licenses to use the educational programs created by AHL-EI until December 2012. CIBT distributed licenses to certain entities in China and other countries, including corporate organizations, academic institutions and hotel and education consulting companies. Our distribution license with AHL-EI expired in December 2012. We will continue to use AHL-EI content on a non-exclusive basis through our subsidiary, Sprott-Shaw, who has been delivering ALH-EI content for many years. Because we will continue to use the AHL-EI content, we expect our programs offering such curriculum to continue as planned. However, the non-exclusive nature of the programs could encourage more competition by others offering similar programs. If so, there is a risk that our revenues generated from our tourism management programs may decline, thereby adversely affecting our profitability. The personal information that we collect may be vulnerable to breach, theft or loss, which could subject us to liability or adversely affect our reputation and operations. Possession and use of personal information in our operations subjects us to risks and costs that could harm our business and reputation. We collect, use and retain large amounts of personal information regarding our students and their families, including personal and family financial data. We also collect and maintain personal information of our employees in the ordinary course of business. Although we use security and business controls to limit access and use of personal information, a third party may be able to circumvent those security and business controls, which could result in a breach of privacy of our students or employees. In addition, errors in the storage, use or transmission of personal information could result in a breach of student or employee privacy. Possession and use of personal information in our operations also subjects us to legislative and regulatory burdens that could require us to implement certain policies and procedures regarding identity theft related to student credit accounts, and could require us to make certain notifications about any data breaches, improper access or use of our data, which could in turn restrict our use of personal information under privacy laws. A violation of any laws or regulations relating to the collection or use of personal information could result in the imposition of fines against us. As a result, we may be required to expend significant resources to protect against the threat of these security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by these breaches. While we believe we take appropriate precautions and safety measures, there can be no assurances that a breach, loss or theft of any such personal information will not occur. Any breach, theft or loss of such personal information could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, reputation and growth prospects and could result in liability under privacy statutes and legal action being taken against us. 23 Our multimedia services and advertising business may be adversely impacted by an economic downturn. Multimedia and advertising companies, in general, are dependent upon economic conditions. Historically, advertising revenues have increased with the beginning of an economic recovery, principally with increases in advertising by the banking, financial, insurance and securities industries. Decreases in advertising revenues have historically corresponded with regional or national recessionary conditions. Advertising revenues from the real estate industry constituted a significant portion of IRIX’s overall revenues. A reduction in demand for advertising in the real estate and other industries could result from a decline in economic conditions and thus a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general. As a result, the results of operations of IRIX may be adversely impacted by a decline in economic conditions. IRIX currently depends on a large portion of Asian clientele and the loss of, or a significant reduction in Asian clientele would significantly reduce our revenues from multimedia services and advertising, and adversely impact our consolidated operating results. A large portion of our clientele in the multimedia services and advertising business are people of Asian descent in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, or are related to or affiliated with people of Asian descent in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. Should there be a downturn in the immigration environment in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, this could cause us to lose clients and negatively impact our advertising revenues. We may not be able to maintain our current Asian clientele. We cannot be certain that we can develop new clients or expand our existing client base. This could cause the operating results of IRIX to decline. Therefore, a loss of our Asian clients would materially reduce our revenues from our multimedia and advertising business and adversely impact our consolidated operating results and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Common Shares The issuance of shares upon the exercise of options and warrants may cause immediate dilution to our existing shareholders. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of options may result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders. As of August 31, 2012, there were outstanding options to purchase up to 4,533,000 common shares in our authorized capital at exercise prices ranging from $0.24 to $0.80 per share, with expiry dates ranging from May 3, 2013 to January 6, 2017. A total of 1,460,500 outstanding options had vested and were exercisable as at August 31, 2012. As of August 31, 2012, there were outstanding warrants to purchase up to 2,756,833 common shares in our authorized capital at an exercise price of $0.35 per share, expiring on June 29, 2014 and July 11, 2014, all of which were exercisable as at August 31, 2012. If all outstanding options and warrants were exercised, our issued and outstanding share capital would increase by 7,289,833 common shares, or approximately 10.1% based on 71,949,344 shares of our common shares outstanding as of August 31, 2012. This would result in an immediate dilution to our existing shareholders. Conversion of the outstanding options and warrants may also depress the price of our common shares, which may cause investors or lenders to reconsider investing in us and thus adversely affect our financing efforts. The market price for our common shares may be volatile. The market price for our common shares may be volatile and subject to wide fluctuations in response to factors such as actual or anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly results of operations, changes in financial estimates by securities research analysts, changes in the economic performance or market valuations of other comparable companies, announcements by us or our competitors of material acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments, fluctuations of exchange rates between the RMB and Canadian dollar, intellectual property litigation, release of lock-up or other transfer restrictions on our outstanding common shares, and economic or political conditions in China. In addition, the performance and fluctuation in market prices of other companies with business operations located mainly in China that have listed their securities in the United States may affect the volatility in the price and trading volumes of our common shares. Furthermore, the securities markets have from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are not related to the operating performance of particular companies. These market fluctuations may also materially and adversely affect the market price of our common shares. 24 We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences to U.S. holders of our common shares. We do not expect to be considered a “passive foreign investment company”, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ending August 31, 2012. However, the application of the PFIC rules is subject to ambiguity in several respects, and, in addition, we must make a separate determination each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC, which is made after the close of each taxable year. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for our current taxable year or any future taxable year. A non-U.S. corporation will be considered a PFIC for any taxable year if either (i) at least 75% of its gross income is passive income or (ii) at least 50% of the value of its assets is attributable to assets that produce or are held for the production of passive income. The market value of our assets generally will be determined based on the market price of our common shares, which is likely to fluctuate. In addition, the composition of our income and assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend the cash we raise. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a U.S. person held a common share or common shares, certain adverse U.S. federal income tax consequences could apply to such U.S. person. See “Item 10E.Taxation—U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences – Additional Rules that May Apply to U.S. Holders”. We do not intend to pay dividends and there will be fewer ways in which you can make a gain on any investment in us. We have never paid any cash dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. To the extent that we require additional funding currently not provided for in our financing plan, our funding sources may likely prohibit the payment of dividends. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in us will need to come through appreciation of our stock price. We indemnify our directors and officers against liability, and this indemnification could negatively affect our operating results. In accordance with our articles of incorporation, we indemnify our officers and our directors for liability arising while they are carrying out their respective duties. Our articles of incorporation also allow for reimbursement of certain legal defenses. In addition to this, we insure our directors and officers against certain liabilities. The costs related to such indemnification and insurance coverage, if either one of them or both were to increase, could materially adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 