RISK FACTORS This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors, including those set forth in the following risk factors and elsewhere in this Annual Report. The following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating us and our business. Risks Related to our Company and our Industry Our revenues and expenses are difficult to predict because they can fluctuate significantly given the nature of the markets in which we operate. This increases the likelihood that our results could fall below the expectation of market analysts, which could cause the market price of our equity shares and ADSs to decline. Our revenue historically has fluctuated and may fluctuate in the future depending on a number of factors, including: • the size, complexity, timing, pricing terms and profitability of significant projects or product orders; • changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; • the proportion of services we perform at our clients’ sites rather than at our offshore facilities; • seasonal changes that affect the mix of services we provide to our clients or the relative proportion of services and product revenue; • seasonal changes that affect purchasing patterns among our consumers of desktops, notebooks, servers, communication devices, consumer care and other products; • unanticipated cancellations, contract terminations or deferral of projects or those occurring as a result of our clients reorganizing their operations; • the duration of tax holidays or exemptions and the availability of other Government of India incentives; • the effect of seasonal hiring patterns and the time we require to train and productively utilize our new employees; • unanticipated variations in the duration, size and scope of our projects, as well as changes in the corporate decision-making process of our clients; • currency exchange fluctuations; and • other economic and political factors. A significant portion of our total operating expenses in our IT Services and IT Products businesses, particularly personnel and facilities, are fixed in advance of any particular quarter. As a result, unanticipated variations in the number and timing of our projects or employee utilization rates in our IT Services business, excluding Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services, Indian IT Services and Infocrossing Inc., may cause significant variations in operating results in any particular quarter. Utilization rates are the proportion of billed resources to total resources. Our total resources for the purpose of computing utilization include resources in administration and general support function excluding corporate activities. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as indications of future performance. Thus, it is possible that in the future some of our periodic results of operations may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors, and the market price of our equity shares and ADSs could decline. Our profits attributable to equity holders increased by 5.20% for the year ended March 31, 2012, as compared to the year ended March 31, 2011. There continues to be a high level of global economic uncertainty driven by high levels of sovereign debt, particularly in Europe. Pricing remains competitive and clients remain focused on cost reduction and capital conservation. Consequently, to maximize our revenues, we are investing in developing capabilities in new technology areas and deepening our domain expertise. While we believe that we have a flexible business model which can mitigate the negative impact of an uncertain or slow growing economy, we may not be able to sustain historical levels of profitability. In our BPO business, we are diversifying our service offerings to reduce the proportion of revenues from customer interaction services. Continued attrition levels in our customer interaction services could adversely impact our operating margins. 9 Table of Contents As a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to sustain our historic levels of profitability. If we do not continue to improve our administrative, operational and financial processes and systems to manage our growth, the value of our shareholders’ investment may be harmed. Our expected growth will continue to place significant demands on our management and other resources. This will require us to continue to develop and improve our operational, financial and other internal controls, both in India and elsewhere. In particular, our continued growth will increase the challenges involved in: • recruiting, training and retaining sufficiently skilled technical, marketing and management personnel; • maintaining an effective internal control system and properly educating and training employees to mitigate the risk of individuals engaging in unlawful or fraudulent activity or otherwise exposing us to unacceptable business risks; • adhering to our high quality standards; • maintaining high levels of client satisfaction; • developing and improving our internal administrative infrastructure, particularly our financial, operational, communications and other internal systems; • preserving our culture, values and entrepreneurial environment; and • assimilating and integrating disparate IT systems, personnel and employment practices, and operations of acquired companies. If we are unable to manage our growth effectively, the quality of our services and products may decline, and our ability to attract clients and skilled personnel may be negatively affected. These factors in turn could negatively affect the growth of all segments of our business and harm the value of our shareholders’ investment. Intense competition in the market for IT and ITeS services could adversely affect our cost advantages, and, as a result, decrease our revenues. The market for IT services is highly competitive. Our competitors include software/IT companies, systems consulting and integration firms, other technology companies and client in-house information services departments. We may also face competition from IT and ITeS companies operating from emerging low cost destinations such as China, the Philippines, Brazil, Romania and Poland. Some of our competitors command significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources and generate greater revenue than we do. We cannot be reasonably certain that we will be able to compete successfully against such competitors or that we will not lose our key employees or clients to such competitors. Additionally, we believe that our ability to compete also depends in part on factors outside our control, such as the availability of skilled resources, the price at which our competitors offer comparable services and our competitors’ responsiveness to their clients’ needs. We may face difficulties in providing end-to-end business solutions for our clients that could cause clients to discontinue their work with us, which in turn could harm our business. The increased breadth of our service offerings may result in larger and more complex projects with our clients. This will require us to establish closer relationships with our clients, develop a thorough understanding of their operations, and take higher commercial risks in our contracts with such clients. Our ability to establish such relationships will depend on a number of factors, including the proficiency of our IT professionals and our management personnel. Our failure to understand our client’s requirements the domain and country-specific laws and regulations which govern the products and services that we provide, or our failure to deliver services which meet the requirements specified by our clients could result in termination of client contracts and/or imposition of penalties or damages. Additionally, we may experience financial losses in contracts which are linked to our client’s future business outcomes or based on assumptions which are not realized. Larger projects may involve multiple engagements or stages, and there is a risk that a client may choose not to retain us for subsequent stages or may cancel or delay subsequent planned engagements. These terminations, cancellations or delays may result from the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally, as opposed to factors related to the quality of our services. Such cancellations or delays make it difficult to plan for project resource requirements, and inaccuracies in such resource planning may have a negative impact on our profitability. 10 Table of Contents Our success depends in large part upon the strength of our management team and other highly skilled professionals. If we fail to attract and retain these personnel, our business may be unable to grow and our revenue could decline, which may decrease the value of our shareholders’ investment. The continued efforts of the senior members of our management team, including of our Chairman and Managing Director, are critical to our success. Our ability to execute project engagements and to obtain new clients depends in large part on our ability to attract, train, motivate and retain highly skilled professionals, especially project managers, software engineers and other senior technical personnel. If we cannot hire and retain additional qualified personnel, our ability to bid on and obtain new projects and to continue to expand our business will be impaired and our revenue could decline. We believe that there is significant competition for professionals with the skills necessary to perform the services we offer. We may not be able to hire and retain enough skilled and experienced employees to replace those who leave. Changes in government policies may also affect our ability to attract, hire and retain personnel. Additionally, we may not be able to reassign or retain our employees to keep pace with continuing changes in technology, evolving standards and changing client preferences. Our profits could be adversely affected if we are unable to manage employee hiring and attrition to achieve a stable and efficient workforce structure. Our profitability could suffer if we are unable to improve our cost management or such strategies are not as successful as they have been in the past. Our ability to improve or maintain our profitability is dependent on successful management of our costs. Our cost management strategies include maintaining appropriate alignment between the demand for our services and our resource capacity, optimizing the costs of service delivery and effectively leveraging our sales and marketing and general and administrative costs. We have also taken actions to reduce certain costs, and these initiatives include, deriving greater productivity from fixed costs and relocating non-client-facing employees to lower-cost locations. There is no guarantee that these, or other cost-management efforts will be successful, that our efficiency will be enhanced, or that we will achieve desired levels of profitability. Over time, we have seen a steady improvement in general and administrative costs as a percentage of revenue. Because of the significant steps taken in the past to reduce such costs, we may not be able to maintain such a high level of cost reduction once we have eliminated redundancies and streamlined our processes to maximize efficiency. If we are not able to mitigate rising employee compensation costs by relocating to lower cost locations, passing such increases to customers, or using other measures, our margins and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Exchange rate fluctuations in various currencies in which we do business could negatively impact our revenue and operating results. Our IT Services business is approximately 76% of our revenue. Our revenue from this business is derived from transactions in foreign currencies, while a significant portion of our costs are in Indian rupees. The exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. Appreciation of the Rupee against foreign currencies can adversely affect our revenue and competitive position, and can adversely impact our gross margins. We generate approximately 35% of our IT Services revenues in non-U.S. dollar currencies, and the exchange rate fluctuations between these currencies and the U.S. dollar can affect our revenues and growth, as expressed in U.S. dollar terms. We seek to minimize this risk by entering into forward exchange and option contracts. However, volatility in exchange rate movement and/or sustained Indian rupee appreciation will negatively impact our revenue and operating results. A significant portion of our debt is in various foreign currencies. We also undertake hedging strategies to mitigate exposure of exchange rate risk relating to foreign currency borrowing, including entering into cross-currency interest rate swaps. As mentioned above, the exchange rate between the Indian rupee and foreign currencies has fluctuated significantly in recent years and will likely continue to fluctuate in the future. Volatility in exchange rate movement and/or Indian rupee depreciation may negatively impact our operating results. 11 Table of Contents Our revenues are highly dependent on clients primarily located in the United States and Europe, as well as on clients concentrated in certain industries, and economic slowdown or factors that affect the economic health of the United States, Europe or these industries may affect our business. We derive approximately 52% of our IT Services revenue from the United States and 28% of our IT Services revenue from Europe. If the economy in the United States or Europe continues to weaken and conditions in the global financial market continue to deteriorate, pricing for our services may become less attractive and our clients located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. Reduction in spending on IT services may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability. Furthermore, any significant decrease in the growth of the industries in which we focus, or a significant consolidation in any such industry, may reduce the demand for our services and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Our IT Services revenue depends to a large extent on a small number of clients, and our revenue could decline if we lose a major client. We currently derive, and believe that we will continue to derive, a significant portion of our IT Services revenue from a limited number of corporate clients. The loss of a major client or a significant reduction in the service performed for a major client could result in a reduction of our revenue. Our largest client for the years ended March 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 accounted for approximately 4% of our IT Services revenue. For the same periods, our ten largest clients accounted for approximately 20% of our IT Services revenue. The volume of work we perform for specific clients may vary from year to year, particularly since we typically are not the exclusive external technology service provider for these clients. Thus, any major client during one year may not provide the same level of revenue in a subsequent year. There are a number of factors other than our performance that could cause the loss of a client and these factors are neither predictable nor under our control. In certain cases, clients have reduced their spending on IT services due to a challenging economic environment, consequently reducing their volume of business with us. If we were to lose one of our major clients or have a significantly lower volume of business with them, our revenue and profitability could be reduced. We continually strive to reduce our dependence on the revenue earned from services rendered to any one client. Our profitability could suffer if we are not able to maintain favorable utilization rates. Our profitability and the cost of providing our services are affected by the utilization rate of our professionals. If we are not able to maintain appropriate utilization rates for our professionals, our profit margin and our profitability may suffer. Our utilization rates are affected by a number of factors, including: • our ability to transition employees from completed projects to new assignments and to hire and integrate new employees; • our ability to forecast demand for our services and thereby maintain an appropriate headcount in each of our geographies and workforces; • our ability to manage attrition; and • our need to devote time and resources to training, professional development and other non-chargeable activities. Our revenue could also suffer if we misjudge demand patterns and do not recruit sufficient employees to satisfy demand. Employee shortages could prevent us from completing our contractual commitments in a timely manner and cause us to pay penalties or lose contracts or clients. Restrictions on immigration in the U.S. may affect our ability to compete for and provide services to clients in the U.S., which could hamper our growth and cause our revenue to decline. Our employees who work onsite at client facilities or at our facilities in the U.S. on temporary or extended assignments typically must obtain visas. If U.S. immigration laws change and make it more difficult for us to obtain H-1B and L-1 visas for our employees, our ability to compete for and provide services to our clients in the United States could be impaired. In response to past terrorist attacks in the United States, the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services has increased its level of scrutiny in reviewing visa applications and has decreased the number of grants. These restrictions and any further changes could hamper our ability to service our customers and cause our revenue to decline. 12 Table of Contents A majority of our personnel in the United States hold H-1B visas or L-1 visas. An H-1B visa is a temporary work visa, which allows the employee to remain in the United States while he or she remains an employee of the sponsoring firm. The L-1 visa is an intra-company transfer visa, which only allows the employee to remain in the United States temporarily. There is a limit to the aggregate number of new H-1B petitions that the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services may approve annually. Although there is no limit to the number of new L-1 petitions, the L-1 and H-1B Visa Reform Act of 2004 precludes foreign companies from obtaining L-1 visas for employees with specialized knowledge if (1) such employees will be stationed primarily at the worksite of another company in the U.S. and the employee will not be controlled and supervised by his employer, or (2) the placement is essentially an arrangement to provide labor for hire rather than in connection with the employee’s specialized knowledge. In addition, companies which have obtained H-1B visas on behalf of employees face higher labor, legal and regulatory standards. Investigations by the Wage and Hour Division of the United States Department of Labor or unannounced random site inspections by the United States Department of Homeland Security also could diminish our ability to compete for and provide services to our clients in the United States. Immigration laws in the United States and in other countries are subject to legislative changes, as well as to variations in the standards of application and enforcement due to political forces and economic conditions. It is difficult to predict the political and economic events that could affect immigration laws, or the restrictive impact they could have on obtaining or monitoring work visas for our technology professionals. Although we currently have sufficient personnel with valid H-1B visas, we cannot be assured that we will continue to be able to obtain any or a sufficient number of H-1B visas for our onsite employees on the same time schedule as we have previously obtained. Our global operations expose us to numerous and sometimes conflicting legal and regulatory requirements, and violation of these regulations could harm our business. Since we provide services to clients throughout the world, we are subject to numerous, and sometimes conflicting, legal requirements on matters as diverse as import/export controls, content requirements, trade restrictions, tariffs, taxation, sanctions, government affairs, anti-bribery, whistle blowing, internal and disclosure control obligations, data protection and privacy and labor relations. Gaps in our compliance with these regulations in the conduct of our business could result in fines, penalties, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, disgorgement of profits, prohibitions on doing business and adverse impact to our reputation. Gaps in compliance with these regulations in connection with the performance of our obligations to our clients could also result in liability for monetary damages, fines and/or criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity, restrictions on our ability to process information and allegations by our clients that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Due to the varying degree of development of the legal systems of the countries in which we operate, local laws might be insufficient to defend us and preserve our rights. We have more than 28,000 employees located outside India. We are subject to risks relating to compliance with a variety of national and local laws including multiple tax regimes, labor laws, employee health safety and wages and benefits laws. We may, from time to time, be subject to litigation or administrative actions resulting from claims against us by current or former employees individually or as part of class actions, including claims of wrongful terminations, discrimination, misclassification or other violations of labor law or other alleged conduct. We may also, from time to time, be subject to litigation resulting from claims against us by third parties, including claims of breach of non-compete and confidentiality provisions of our employees’ former employment agreements with such third parties. Our failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to risks inherent in doing business on an international level that could harm our operating results. Currently, we have software development facilities in several countries around the world. The majority of our software development facilities are located in India. As we continue to increase our presence outside India through our strategic development centers worldwide, we are subject to additional risks related to our international expansion strategy, including risks related to complying with a wide variety of national and local laws, restrictions on the import and export of certain technologies and multiple and possibly overlapping tax structures. In addition, we may face competition in other countries from companies that may have more experience with operations in such countries or with international operations in general. We may also face difficulties integrating new facilities in different countries into our existing operations, as well as integrating employees that we hire in different countries into our existing corporate culture. Our international expansion plans may not be successful, and we may not be able to compete effectively in other countries. 13 Table of Contents Legislation in certain countries in which we operate, including the United States, may restrict companies in those countries from outsourcing work. Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived connection between offshore outsourcing and the loss of jobs domestically. With high domestic unemployment levels and increasing political and media attention on the outsourcing of services internationally by domestic corporations, there have been concerted efforts to enact new legislation to restrict offshore outsourcing or impose restrictions on companies that outsource. Periodically, restrictive outsourcing legislation has been considered by federal and state legislatures in the U.S. In the event any of these measures become law, our ability to do business in these jurisdictions could be adversely impacted, which in turn could adversely affect our revenues and operating profitability. In addition, from time to time, negative experiences associated with offshore outsourcing, such as theft and misappropriation of sensitive client data has been publicized, including reports involving service providers in India. Our current or prospective clients may elect to perform certain services themselves or may be discouraged from transferring services from onshore to offshore service providers to avoid harmful publicity or any negative perceptions that may be associated with using an offshore service provider. Any slowdown or reversal of existing industry trends towards offshore outsourcing would seriously harm our ability to compete effectively with competitors that provide services from within the countries in which our clients operate. Our failure to complete fixed-price, fixed-time frame contracts within the budget and on time may negatively affect our profitability, which could decrease the value of our shareholders’ investment. We offer a portion of our services on a fixed-price, fixed-time frame basis, rather than on a time-and-materials basis. Although we use specified software engineering processes and rely on our past project experience to reduce the risks associated with estimating, planning and performing fixed-price or fixed-time frame projects, we bear the risk of cost overruns, completion delays and wage inflation in connection with these projects. If we fail to accurately estimate the resources and time required for a project, future rates of wage inflation and currency exchange rates, or if we fail to complete our contractual obligations within the contracted timeframe, our profitability may suffer. If our pricing structures do not accurately anticipate the cost and complexity of performing our work, then our contracts could be unprofitable. We negotiate pricing terms with our clients utilizing a range of pricing structures and conditions. Depending on the particular contract, these include time-and-materials pricing, fixed-price arrangements, and hybrid contracts with features of both pricing models. Our pricing is highly dependent on our internal forecasts and predictions about our projects and the marketplace, which might be based on limited data and could be inaccurate. If we do not accurately estimate the costs and timing for completing projects, our contracts could prove unprofitable for us or yield lower profit margins than anticipated. The risk is greatest when pricing our outsourcing contracts, as many of our outsourcing projects entail the coordination of operations and workforces in multiple locations, utilizing workforces with different skill sets and competencies and geographically-distributed service centers. Furthermore, when work gets outsourced we occasionally hire employees from our clients and assume responsibility for one or more of our clients’ business processes. Our pricing, cost and profit margin estimates on outsourced work frequently include anticipated long-term cost savings from transformational and other initiatives that we expect to achieve and sustain over the life of the outsourcing contract. There is a risk that we will under price our contracts, fail to accurately estimate the costs of performing the work or fail to accurately assess the risks associated with potential contracts. In particular, any increased or unexpected costs, delays or failures to achieve anticipated cost savings, or unexpected risks we encounter in connection with the performance of this work, including those caused by factors outside our control, could make these contracts less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on our profit margin. Disruptions in telecommunications could harm our service model, which could result in a reduction of our revenue. A significant element of our business strategy is to continue to leverage and expand our offshore development centers at Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Pune and other cities in India, as well as near-shore development centers outside of India. We believe that the use of a strategically located network of software development centers will provide us with cost advantages, the ability to attract highly skilled personnel from various regions of India and the world, the ability to service clients on a regional and global basis and the ability to provide services to our clients 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Part of our service model is to maintain active voice and data communications between our main offices in Bangalore, our clients’ offices, and our software development and support facilities. Although we maintain redundancy facilities and satellite communications links, any significant loss in our ability to transmit voice and data through satellite and telephone communications could result in a disruption in business, thereby hindering our performance or our ability to complete client projects on time. This, in turn, could lead to a reduction of our revenue. 14 Table of Contents We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by disclosure of confidential information or data security system failures. We often have access to or are required to collect and store confidential client and customer data. Many of our client agreements do not limit our potential liability for breaches of confidentiality. If any person, including any of our employees or former employees, penetrates our network security or misappropriates sensitive data, we could be subject to significant liability from our clients or from our clients’ customers for breaching contractual confidentiality provisions or privacy laws. Unauthorized disclosure of sensitive or confidential client and customer data, whether through breach of our computer systems, systems failure, loss or theft of assets containing confidential information or otherwise, could damage our reputation and cause us to lose clients. We are investing substantial cash assets in new facilities and physical infrastructures, and our profitability could be reduced if our business does not grow proportionately. We have invested substantially in construction or expansion of software development facilities and physical infrastructure during fiscal year 2012 in anticipation of growth in our business. The total amount of investment made to purchase property, plant and equipment in fiscal year 2012 was Rs. 12,977 million (US$255 million). Additionally, as of March 31, 2012, we had contractual commitments of approximately Rs. 1,673 million (US$33 million) related to capital expenditures on construction or expansion of our software development and other facilities. We may encounter cost overruns or project delays in connection with new facilities and these expansions may increase our fixed costs. If we are unable to grow our business and revenues proportionately, our profitability will be reduced. Our business will suffer if we fail to anticipate and develop new services and enhance existing services in order to keep pace with rapid changes in technology and the industries on which we focus. The IT services market is characterized by rapid technological changes, evolving industry standards, changing client preferences and new product and service introductions. Our future success will depend on our ability to anticipate these advances and develop new product and service offerings to meet client needs. We may not be successful in anticipating or responding to these advances on a timely basis, or, if we do respond, the services or technologies we develop may not be successful in the marketplace. Further, products, services or technologies that are developed by our competitors may render our services non-competitive or obsolete. Our failure to address the demands of the rapidly evolving information technology environment, particularly with respect to cloud computing and storage, mobility and applications and analytics, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of our client contracts can typically be terminated without cause, with little or no notice and without termination charges, which could negatively impact our revenue and profitability. Our clients typically retain us on a non-exclusive, project-by-project basis. Many of our client contracts, including those that are on a fixed-price, fixed-time frame basis, can be terminated with or without cause, with as little as 90 days’ notice and without termination-related penalties. Additionally, most of our contracts with clients are typically limited to discrete projects without any commitment to a specific volume of business or future work. Our business is dependent on the decisions and actions of our clients, and there are a number of factors that might result in the termination of a project or the loss of a client that are outside of our control, including: • the business or financial condition of our clients or the economy generally; • a change in strategic priorities, resulting in a reduced level of IT spending; • a demand for price reductions; and • a change in outsourcing strategy such as moving to client in-house IT departments or to our competitors. We may engage in future acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures that may harm our performance, dilute our shareholders’ ownership and cause us to incur debt or assume contingent liabilities. We have acquired and in the future may acquire or make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets. In the future, we may not identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates, we may not complete those transactions on terms commercially acceptable to us. We could have difficulty in assimilating the personnel, operations, technology or software of the acquired companies. In addition, the key personnel of an acquired company may decide not to work for us. We could also have difficulty in integrating the acquired products, services or technologies into our operations. These difficulties could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees and increase our expenses. Changes in competition laws in India and abroad could also impact our acquisition plans by prohibiting potential transactions which would otherwise be beneficial for us. 15 Table of Contents Some of our long-term client contracts contain benchmarking provisions which, if triggered could result in lower contractual revenues and profitability in the future. As the size and complexity of our client engagements increase, our clients may require further benchmarking provisions in our contracts with them. Benchmarking provisions allow a customer in certain circumstances to request a study prepared by an agreed upon third-party comparing our pricing, performance and efficiency gains for delivered contract services against the comparable services of an agreed upon list of other service providers. Based on the results of the benchmark study and depending on the reasons for any unfavorable variance, we may be required to reduce our pricing for future services to be performed for the remainder of the contract term, which could have an adverse impact on our revenues and profitability. We may be liable to our clients for damages caused by system failures, which could damage our reputation and cause us to lose customers. Many of our contracts involve projects that are critical to the operations of our clients’ businesses and provide benefits to our clients that may be difficult to quantify. Any failure in a client’s system could result in a claim for substantial damages against us, regardless of our responsibility for such failure. Although we attempt to limit our contractual liability for consequential damages in rendering our services, we cannot be assured that such limitations on liability will be enforceable in all cases, or that they will otherwise protect us from liability for damages. A successful assertion of one or more large claims against us that exceeds our available insurance coverage or results in changes to our insurance policies, including premium increases or the imposition of a large deductible or co-insurance requirement, could adversely affect our operating results. Clients may subject us to litigation to seek damages for deficient services or for violating intellectual property rights. Our clients may subject us to litigation and seek damages for losses caused by allegedly deficient services. Clients may also subject us to litigation and seek damages for violating or misusing their intellectual property rights. Our inability to provide services at contractually-agreed service levels or inability to prevent violation or misuse of the intellectual property of our clients could cause significant damage to our reputation and adversely affect our results of operations. Compliance with new and changing corporate governance and public disclosure requirements adds uncertainty to our compliance policies and increases our costs of compliance. Changing laws, regulations and standards relating to accounting, corporate governance and public disclosure, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, new SEC regulations, New York Stock Exchange rules, Securities and Exchange Board of India rules and Indian stock market listing regulations, are creating uncertainty for companies like ours. These new or changed laws, regulations and standards may lack specificity and are subject to varying interpretations. Their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs of compliance as a result of ongoing revisions to such governance standards. In particular, continuing compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the related regulations regarding our required assessment of our internal controls over financial reporting requires the commitment of significant financial and managerial resources. With respect to our Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2012, our management has performed an assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. We have determined that the internal controls are effective. We are committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure, and our efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards in this regard have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. In addition, the new laws, regulations and standards regarding corporate governance may make it more difficult for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance. Further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. As a result, we may face difficulties attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. If we fail to comply with new or changed laws or regulations and standards differ, our business and reputation may be harmed. If we fail to or are unable to implement and maintain effective internal controls over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. 16 Table of Contents We are subject to reporting obligations under U.S. securities laws. The SEC, as required under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, has adopted rules requiring every public company to include a report of management on the effectiveness of such company’s internal control over financial reporting in its annual report. In addition, an independent registered public accounting firm must issue an attestation report on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control over financial reporting. If we fail to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, we and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to conclude that we have effective internal control over financial reporting at a reasonable assurance level. This could in turn result in the loss of investor confidence in the reliability of our financial statements. Furthermore, we have incurred and anticipate that we will continue to incur considerable costs and use significant management time and other resources in an effort to comply with Section 404 and other requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. If we are not able to continue to meet the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner or with adequate compliance, we might be subject to sanctions or investigation by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange or other regulatory authorities. Any such action could adversely affect the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting. We cannot predict the outcome of the Securities and Exchange Commission’s voluntary requests for documents and information, the outcome of which could have a material adverse effect on us. As we previously disclosed in our Form 20-F for the year ended March 31, 2010, our Audit Committee and KPMG India conducted an investigation into whether financial relationships, business transactions or loans existed between any members of KPMG India’s audit engagement team and Wipro as well as other potential independence matters, including whether any other members of the KPMG India audit engagement team had dealings with any Wipro employees that would compromise KPMG India’s independence from Wipro. KPMG India concluded that it did not lack independence with respect to Wipro. Based on its review of the facts from KMPG India’s investigation and discussions with its external advisors, our Audit Committee concurred with KPMG India’s conclusion. Subsequently, the SEC’s Division of Enforcement requested that we provide, on a voluntary basis, certain information and documents concerning, among other things, issues relating to auditor independence. Some of the voluntary requests also relate to the same subject matter we disclosed which the Audit Committee investigated previously, including the appropriateness of certain accounting entries pertaining to our exchange rate fluctuation and outstanding liability accounts. We are cooperating with the SEC’s requests. The outcome of the SEC’s review of this matter is uncertain. A conclusion by the SEC that differs with the conclusions reached by KPMG India and our Audit Committee could have a material adverse effect on us. If we are unable to collect our receivables from or invoice our unbilled services to our clients, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. Our business depends on our ability to successfully obtain payment from our clients of the amounts they owe us for work performed. We evaluate the financial condition of our clients and usually bill and collect on relatively short cycles. We maintain provisions against receivables and unbilled services. Actual losses on client balances could differ from those that we currently anticipate and as a result we might need to adjust our provisions. There is no guarantee that we will accurately assess the creditworthiness of our clients. Macroeconomic conditions, such as a potential credit crisis in the global financial system, could also result in financial difficulties for our clients, including limited access to the credit markets, insolvency or bankruptcy. Such conditions could cause clients to delay payment, request modifications of their payment terms, or default on their payment obligations to us, all of which could increase our receivables balance. Timely collection of fees for client services also depends on our ability to complete our contractual commitments and subsequently bill for and collect our contractual service fees. If we are unable to meet our contractual obligations, we might experience delays in the collection of or be unable to collect our client balances, and if this occurs, our results of operations and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience an increase in the time required to bill and collect for our services, our cash flows could be adversely affected. Our work with government clients exposes us to additional risks inherent in the government contracting environment. Our clients include national, provincial, state and local governmental entities. Our government work carries various risks inherent in the government contracting process which may affect our operating profitability. These risks include, but are not limited to, the following: • Government entities often reserve the right to audit our contract costs, including allocated indirect costs, and conduct inquiries and investigations of our business practices with respect to our government contracts. If the client finds that the costs are not reimbursable, then we will not be allowed to bill for them or the cost must be refunded to the client if it has already been paid to us. Findings from an audit may also result in prospective adjustments of previously agreed upon rates for our work and may affect our future margins. 17 Table of Contents • If a government client discovers improper or illegal activities in the course of audits or investigations, we may become subject to various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from doing business with other agencies of that government. The inherent limitations of internal controls may not prevent or detect all improper or illegal activities, regardless of their adequacy and therefore we can only mitigate, and not eliminate, this risk. • Government contracts, and the proceedings surrounding them, are often subject to more extensive scrutiny and publicity than contracts with commercial clients. Negative publicity related to our government contracts, regardless of its accuracy, may further damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts among commercial and governmental entities. • Political and economic factors such as pending elections, changes in leadership among key executive or legislative decision makers, revisions to governmental tax policies and reduced tax revenues can affect the number and terms of new government contracts signed. • Terms and conditions of government contracts tend to be more onerous and are often more difficult to negotiate than those for commercial contracts. We may incur substantial costs for environmental regulation compliance. We are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws relating to protection of the environment. We may incur substantial fines, civil or criminal sanctions, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury if we are held liable under environmental laws and regulations. Our current compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or competitive position. We are exposed to fluctuations in the market values of our investment portfolio. Deterioration of the credit as well as debt and capital markets due to economic turmoil could result in volatility of our investment earnings and impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our financial condition and reported income. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates for our borrowings. Turmoil in the financial markets can cause the borrowings rate to go up in the future. Deterioration in the interest rates could negatively impact our financial condition and reported income. 18 Table of Contents Our financial condition and results of operations may be harmed if we do not successfully reduce market risks through the use of derivative financial instruments. Since we conduct operations throughout the world, a substantial portion of our assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses are denominated in various currencies other than the Indian rupee. Because our financial statements are denominated in the India rupee, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, especially the U.S. dollar against the Indian rupee, could have a material impact on our reported results. We also experience other market risks, including changes in the interest rates of the securities that we own. We may use derivative financial instruments to reduce certain of these risks. However, if our strategies to reduce market risks are not successful, our financial condition and operating results may be harmed. Management’s use of estimates may affect our income and financial position. To comply with IFRS, management is required to make many judgments, estimates, and assumptions. The facts and circumstances on which management bases these estimates and judgments, and management’s judgment of the facts and circumstances, may change from time to time, and this may result in significant changes in the estimates, with a negative impact on our assets or income. Current and future accounting pronouncements and other financial reporting standards may adversely affect the financial information we present. We regularly monitor our compliance with all of the financial reporting standards that are applicable to us and any new pronouncements that are relevant to us. Findings of our monitoring activity or new financial reporting standards may require us to change our internal accounting policies and to alter our operational policy so that it reflects new or amended financial reporting standards. We cannot exclude the possibility that this may have a material impact on our assets, income, or cash flows. For a summary of significant accounting policies, refer to Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements section. An increasing amount of goodwill and acquisition related intangibles in our financials may lead to significant impairment charges in the future. The amount of goodwill and intangible assets in our consolidated financial statement has increased significantly in recent years, primarily due to acquisitions. Goodwill and acquisition related indefinite life intangibles are subject to impairment review at least annually. Impairment testing under IFRS may lead to impairment charges in the future. Any significant impairment charges could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Risks Related to Investments in Indian Companies and International Operations Generally. We are incorporated in India, and a substantial portion of our assets and our employees are located in India. Consequently, our financial performance and the market price of our ADSs will be affected by political, social and economic developments affecting India, Government of India policies such as taxation and foreign investment policies, Government of India currency exchange control and changes in exchange rates and interest rates. Wage increases in India may diminish our competitive advantage against companies located in the United States and Europe and may reduce our profit margins. Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the United States and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees, over the long term wage increases may reduce our profit margins. Furthermore, increases in the proportion of employees with less experience, or source talent from other low cost locations, like Eastern Europe, China or Southeast Asia could also negatively affect our profits. We would realize lower tax benefits if the special tax holiday scheme for units set up in Special Economic Zones is substantially modified. Currently, we benefit from tax incentives under Indian tax laws. We qualify for a deduction from taxable income on profits attributable to our status as a developer of Special Economic Zones or from operation of units located in Special Economic Zones, or SEZs. The tax deduction for SEZ developers is available for any ten consecutive years out of fifteen years, commencing from the year in which the SEZ is notified. The tax deduction for a unit in an SEZ is equal to 100% of profits from the export of services for the first five years after the commencement of operations in the SEZ and thereafter is equal to 50.0% of profits from the export of services for a subsequent period of ten years, subject to meeting specified re-investment conditions and earmarking of specified reserves in the last five years. This tax deduction will terminate if our operations are no longer located in an SEZ, fail to comply with rules required for an SEZ or fail to meet certain conditions prescribed under the Income Tax Act, 1961 of India. These tax benefits of units are conditioned upon our ability to generate positive net foreign exchange within five years of the commencement of our operations in the SEZ. If we fail to 19 Table of Contents generate positive net foreign exchange within five years, or thereafter fail to maintain it, we will be subject to penalties under the Foreign Trade (Development and Regulation) Act, 1992, or the Indian Foreign Trade Act. The maximum penalty that may be imposed is equal to five times the gross value of the goods and services that we purchase with duty exemptions. Effective for financial years beginning April 1, 2011, we are subject to a Minimum Alternate Tax, or MAT, at a fixed rate of approximately 20.0% on its net profits as adjusted by certain prescribed adjustments. Where any tax is paid under MAT, such tax will be eligible for adjustment against regular income tax liability computed under the Income Tax Act, 1961 of India, for the following ten years as MAT credit. We cannot assure you that the Government of India will continue these special tax exemptions or that we will continue to qualify for such tax benefits and other incentives. If we no longer receive these tax benefits and other incentives, or if the MAT rate of taxation is increased, our financial results may be adversely affected. In the past, there have been demands by legislators and various political parties in India for the Government of India to actively regulate the development of SEZs by private entities. There have also been demands to impose strict conditions which need to be complied with before economic zones developed by private entities are designated as SEZs. If such regulations or conditions are imposed, it would adversely impact our ability to set up new units in such designated SEZs and avail ourselves of the tax benefits associated with SEZs. In the event that the Government of India or the government of another country changes its tax policies in a manner that is adverse to us, our tax expense may materially increase, reducing our profitability. In the Finance Bill, 2012, the Government of India has proposed to levy service tax based on a negative list of services. Consequently, all services are likely to become taxable, except notified exempted services. We are also subject to U.S. taxes on income, taking into account corresponding deductions, attributable to the permanent establishment and operation of our U.S. branch. Such tax is assessed at a rate of up to 35%. In addition, we are subject to a 15% Branch Profit Tax, or BPT, in the U.S. on the “dividend equivalent amount” as the term is defined under U.S. tax laws. Based on the net profits of our U.S. branch for fiscal year 2012 and the net assets held as of March 31, 2012 and March 31, 2011, we are not currently subject to BPT. In the event that BPT is triggered, then such after-tax net profits not represented by an increase in net assets would be treated as a deemed distribution of accumulated profits, and we would be liable to pay additional taxes on all such deemed distributions, thereby increasing our income tax expenses and negatively affecting our profits. We operate in jurisdictions that impose transfer pricing and other tax related regulations on us, and any failure to comply could materially and adversely affect our profitability. We are required to comply with various transfer pricing regulations in India and other countries. Failure to comply with such regulations may impact our effective tax rates and consequently affect our net margins. Additionally, we operate in several countries and our failure to comply with the local tax regime may result in additional taxes, penalties and enforcement actions from such authorities. In the event that we do not properly comply with transfer pricing and tax-related regulations, our profitability may be adversely affected. Terrorist attacks or a war could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Terrorist attacks, such as the attacks of September 11, 2001 in the United States, the attacks of July 7, 2005 in London, U.K., the attacks of June 30, 2007 in Glasgow, U.K., the attacks in November 29, 2008 and July 13, 2011 in Mumbai, India and other acts of violence or war have the potential to directly impact our clients. To the extent that such attacks affect or involve the United States or Europe, our business may be significantly impacted, as the majority of our revenue is derived from clients located in those regions. In addition, such attacks may make business travel more difficult, 20 Table of Contents may make it more difficult to obtain work visas for many of our technology professionals who are required to work in the United States or Europe, and may effectively curtail our ability to deliver services to our clients. Such obstacles to business may increase our expenses and negatively affect the results of our operations. Furthermore, any terrorist attacks in India could cause a disruption in the delivery of our services to our clients, could have a negative impact on our business, personnel, assets and results of operations, and could cause our clients or potential clients to choose other vendors for the services we provide. Terrorist threats, attacks or war could also delay, postpone or cancel our clients’ decisions to use our services. The markets in which we operate are subject to the risk of earthquakes, floods and other natural disasters, the occurrence of which could cause our business to suffer. Some of the regions that we operate in are prone to earthquakes, hurricanes, tsunamis, flooding and other natural disasters. In the event that any of our business centers are affected by such disasters, we may sustain damage to our operations and properties, suffer significant financial losses and be unable to complete our client engagements in a timely manner, if at all. Further, in the event of a natural disaster, we may also incur costs in redeploying personnel and property. In addition, if there is a major earthquake, as occurred in Japan in March 2011, a flood, as occurred in Thailand in July 2011, or other natural disaster in any of the locations in which our significant customers are located, we face the risk that our customers may incur losses or sustained business interruption which may materially impair their ability to continue their purchase of our products or services. A major earthquake, flood or other natural disaster including as a result of climate changes in the locations in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Regional conflicts in South Asia could adversely affect the Indian economy, disrupt our operations and cause our business to suffer. South Asia has from time to time experienced instances of civil unrest and hostilities among neighboring countries, including between India and Pakistan. There have been military confrontations between India and Pakistan in the Kashmir region and along the India-Pakistan border. The potential for hostilities between the two countries is high due to recent terrorist activities in India and the aggravated geopolitical situation. Both countries have initiated active measures to reduce hostilities. Military activity or terrorist attacks in the future could harm the Indian economy by disrupting communications and making travel more difficult. Such political tensions could create a greater perception that investments in Indian companies involve a higher degree of risk. This, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on the market for the securities of Indian companies, including our equity shares and our ADSs, and on the market for our services. Political considerations in the Government of India could delay the liberalization of the Indian economy and adversely affect economic conditions in India in general, which could in return impact our financial results and prospects. Since 1991, successive Indian Governments have pursued policies of economic liberalization, including significantly relaxing restrictions on the private sector. Nevertheless, the role of the Indian Central and State Governments in the Indian economy as producers, consumers and regulators has remained significant. Although we believe that the process of economic liberalization will continue, the rate of economic liberalization could change, and specific laws and policies affecting technology companies, foreign investment, currency exchange and other matters affecting investment in our securities could change as well. A significant change in India’s economic liberalization and deregulation policies could adversely affect business and economic conditions in India generally and our business in particular. For instance in April 2007, the Government of India announced a number of changes in its policy relating to SEZs, including specifying a cap on land available for SEZs. The Government of India is also considering making changes in its SEZ policy. We currently have several facilities operating within SEZs and any adverse change in policy relating to SEZs could affect our profitability. Indian law limits our ability to raise capital outside India and may limit the ability of others to acquire us, which could prevent us from operating our business or entering into a transaction that is in the best interests of our shareholders. Indian law constrains our ability to raise capital outside of India through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities. Generally, any foreign investment in, or an acquisition of, an Indian company requires approval from relevant government authorities in India, including the Reserve Bank of India. However, subject to certain exceptions, the Government of India currently does not mandate prior approvals for IT companies such as ours. If we are required to seek the approval of the Government of India and the Government of India does not approve the proposed investment or implements a limit on the foreign equity ownership of IT companies, our ability to seek and obtain additional equity investment by foreign investors will be limited. In addition, these restrictions, if applied to us, may prevent us from entering into a transaction, such as an acquisition by a non-Indian company, which would otherwise be beneficial for our Company and the holders of our equity shares and ADSs. 21 Table of Contents Our ability to acquire companies organized outside India depends on the approval of the Government of India. Our failure to obtain approval from the Government of India for the acquisition of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our revenue. The Ministry of Finance of the Government of India and/or the Reserve Bank of India must approve our acquisition of any company organized outside of India or grant general or special permission for such acquisition. The Reserve Bank of India permits acquisitions of companies organized outside of India by an Indian party without approval in the following circumstances: • if the transaction consideration is paid in cash, up to 400% of the net worth of the acquiring company; • if the acquisition is funded with cash from the acquiring company’s existing foreign currency accounts or with cash proceeds from the issue of ADRs or Global Depositary Receipts (“GDRs”); or • if the transaction consideration is paid in stock (i.e., by issue of ADRs/GDRs), up to ten times the acquiring company’s previous fiscal year’s export earnings. We cannot assure you that any necessary approval from the Reserve Bank of India or the Ministry of Finance or any other Government agency can be obtained. Our failure to obtain such approvals from the Government of India for acquisitions of companies organized outside India may restrict our international growth, which could negatively affect our revenue. It may be difficult for you to enforce any judgment obtained in the United States against us, our directors or executive officers or our affiliates. We are incorporated under the laws of India and many of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States. A substantial portion of our assets and the assets of many of these persons are also located outside the United States. As a result, you may be unable to effect service of process upon us outside of India or upon such persons outside their jurisdiction of residence. In addition, you may be unable to enforce against us in courts outside of India, or against these persons outside the jurisdiction of their residence, judgments obtained in courts of the United States, including judgments predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States. We have been advised by our Indian counsel that the United States and India do not currently have a treaty providing for reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments, other than arbitration awards, in civil and commercial matters. Therefore, a final judgment for the payment of money rendered by any federal or state court in the United States on civil liability, whether or not predicated solely upon the federal securities laws of the United States, would not be enforceable in India. However, the party in whose favor such final judgment is rendered may bring a new suit in a competent court in India based on a final judgment that has been obtained in the United States. The suit must be brought in India within three years from the date of the judgment in the same manner as any other suit filed to enforce a civil liability in India. It is unlikely that a court in India would award damages on the same basis as a foreign court if an action is brought in India. Furthermore, it is unlikely that an Indian court would enforce a foreign judgment if it viewed the amount of damages awarded as excessive or inconsistent with Indian practice. A party seeking to enforce a foreign judgment in India is required to obtain approval from the Reserve Bank of India under the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999, to execute such a judgment or to repatriate any amount recovered. The laws of India do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as those of the United States, and we may be unsuccessful in protecting our intellectual property rights. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property may result in development of technology, products or services which compete with our products. We may also be subject to third-party claims of intellectual property infringement. Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. However, the laws of India do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. Therefore, our efforts to protect our intellectual property may not be adequate. Our competitors may independently develop similar technology or duplicate our products or services. Unauthorized parties may infringe upon or misappropriate our products, services or proprietary information. The misappropriation or duplication of our intellectual property could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, reduce our revenue and increase our expenses. We may need to litigate to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Any such litigation could be time-consuming and costly. As the number of patents, copyrights and other intellectual property rights in our industry increases, and as the coverage of these rights increases, we believe that companies in our industry will face more frequent infringement claims. Defending against these claims, even if not meritorious, could be expensive and divert our attention and resources from operating our company. 22 Table of Contents Although we believe that our intellectual property rights do not infringe on the intellectual property rights of any other party, infringement claims may be asserted against us in the future. If we become liable to third parties for infringing their intellectual property rights, we could be required to pay a substantial damage award and be forced to develop non-infringing technology, obtain a license or cease selling the applications or products that contain the infringing technology. We may be unable to develop non-infringing technology or to obtain a license on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Risks Related to the ADSs Sales of our equity shares may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Sales of substantial amounts of our equity shares in the public market, including sales by insiders, or the perception that such sales may occur, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our equity shares or our ADSs or our ability to raise capital through an offering of our securities. In the future, we may also sponsor the sale of shares currently held by some of our shareholders, or issue new shares. We can make no prediction as to the timing of any such sales or the effect, if any, that future sales of our equity shares, or the availability of our equity shares for future sale, will have on the market price of our equity shares or ADSs prevailing from time to time. The Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) recently adopted rules that require publicly listed companies to have at least 25% of their equity shares held publicly by no later than June 2013. Compliance with these SEBI rules could require our promoters to sell to the public their equity shares and reduce their ownership holdings, which could create volatility and impact the market price of our equity shares or ADSs. The price of our ADSs and the U.S. dollar value of any dividends we declare may be negatively affected by fluctuations in the U.S. dollar to Indian rupee exchange rate. Our ADSs trade on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) in U.S. dollars. Since the equity shares underlying the ADSs are listed in India on the Bombay Stock Exchange (“BSE”) and National Stock Exchange (“NSE”) and trade in Indian rupees, the value of the ADSs may be affected by exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and the Indian rupee. In addition, dividends declared, if any, are denominated in Indian rupees, and therefore the value of the dividends received by the holders of ADSs in U.S. dollars will be affected by exchange rate fluctuations. If the Indian rupee depreciates against the U.S. dollar, the price at which our ADSs trade may—and the value of the U.S. dollar equivalent of any dividend will decrease accordingly. An active or liquid trading market for our ADSs is not assured. An active, liquid trading market for our ADSs may not be maintained in the long term. Loss of liquidity could increase the price volatility of our ADSs. Indian law imposes foreign investment restrictions that limit a holder’s ability to convert equity shares into ADSs, which may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the market price of our equity shares. Under certain circumstances, the Reserve Bank of India must approve the sale of equity shares underlying ADSs by a non-resident of India to a resident of India. The Reserve Bank of India has given general permission to effect sales of existing shares or convertible debentures of an Indian company by a resident to a non-resident, subject to certain conditions, including the price at which the shares may be sold. Additionally, except under certain limited circumstances, if an investor seeks to convert the Rupee proceeds from a sale of equity shares in India into foreign currency and then repatriate that foreign currency from India, he or she will have to obtain additional approval from the Reserve Bank of India for each transaction. Required approval from the Reserve Bank of India or any other government agency may not be obtained on terms which are favorable to a non-resident investor or may not be obtained at all. Investors who exchange ADSs for the underlying equity shares and are not holders of record will be required to declare to us details of the holder of record, and the holder of record will be required to disclose the details of the beneficial owner. Any investor who fails to comply with this requirement may be liable for a fine of up to Rs. 1,000 for each day such failure continues. Such restrictions on foreign ownership of the underlying equity shares may cause our ADSs to trade at a premium or discount to the equity shares. Our ADSs have historically traded at a significant premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on Indian stock exchanges, but may not continue to do so in the future. 23 Table of Contents Historically, our ADSs have traded at a premium to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on Indian stock exchanges due to the relatively small portion of our market capitalization represented by ADSs, restrictions imposed by Indian law on the conversion of equity shares into ADSs, and the potential preference of some investors to trade securities listed on U.S. exchanges. The completion of any additional secondary ADS offering will increase the number of our outstanding ADSs. Further, the restrictions on the issuance of ADSs imposed by Indian law may be relaxed in the future. Over a period of time, investor preferences may also change. Therefore, the historical premium of our ADSs as compared to the trading prices of our underlying equity shares on Indian stock exchanges may be reduced or eliminated. Negative media coverage and public scrutiny may adversely affect the prices of our equity shares and ADSs. Media coverage, including social media coverage such as blogs, of our business practices, employees, policies and actions has increased dramatically over the past several years. Any negative media coverage, regardless of the accuracy of such reporting, may have an initial adverse impact on our reputation and investor confidence, resulting in a decline in the share price of our equity shares and our ADSs. An investor in our ADSs may not be able to exercise preemptive rights for additional shares and may thereby suffer dilution of his or her equity interest in us. Under the Indian Companies Act, a company incorporated in India must offer its holders of equity shares preemptive rights to subscribe and pay for a proportionate number of shares to maintain their existing ownership percentages prior to the issuance of any new equity shares, unless such preemptive rights have been waived by three-fourths of the shares voting on the resolution to waive such rights. Holders of ADSs may be unable to exercise preemptive rights for the equity shares underlying ADSs unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act is available. We are not obligated to prepare and file such a registration statement, and our decision to do so will depend on the costs and potential liabilities associated with any such registration statement, as well as the perceived benefits of enabling the holders of ADSs to exercise their preemptive rights, and any other factors we consider appropriate at the time. No assurance can be given that we would file a registration statement under these circumstances. If we issue any such securities in the future, such securities may be issued to the Depositary, which may sell such securities for the benefit of the holders of the ADSs. There can be no assurance as to the value, if any, the Depositary would receive upon the sale of such securities. To the extent that holders of ADSs are unable to exercise preemptive rights granted in respect of the equity shares represented by their ADSs, their proportional interests in the Company would be reduced. ADS holders may be restricted in their ability to exercise voting rights. At our request, the Depositary will mail to you any notice of shareholders’ meeting received from us along with information explaining how to instruct the Depositary to exercise the voting rights of the securities represented by ADSs. If the Depositary receives voting instructions from you prior to such shareholders’ meeting, relating to matters that have been forwarded to you, it will endeavor to vote the securities represented by your ADSs in accordance with such voting instructions. However, the ability of the Depositary to carry out voting instructions may be limited by practical and legal limitations and the terms of the securities on deposit. We cannot assure that you will receive voting materials in time to enable you to return voting instructions to the Depositary in a timely manner. Securities for which no voting instructions have been received will not be voted. There may be other communications, notices or offerings that we only make to holders of our equity shares, which will not be forwarded to holders of ADSs. Accordingly, you may not be able to participate in all offerings, transactions or votes that are made available to holders of our equity shares. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequence to U.S. holders. Based on the current price of our ADSs and the composition of our income and assets, we do not believe that we are a “passive foreign investment company,” or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes for our current taxable year ended March 31, 2012. However, a separate determination must be made after the close of each taxable year as to whether we are a PFIC. We cannot assure you that we will not be a PFIC for any future taxable year. If we were treated as a PFIC for any taxable year during which a United States holder held an equity share or an ADS, certain adverse United States federal income tax consequences could apply to the United States holder. See “Taxation—Material United States Federal Tax Consequences—Passive foreign investment company.” 