RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Operations Hurricanes and other natural disasters have adversely affected our business in the past and could do so again in the future. The southeast region of Mexico, like other Caribbean destinations, experiences hurricanes, particularly during the third quarter of each year. Portions of the southeast region also experience earthquakes from time to time. Natural disasters may impede operations, damage infrastructure necessary to our operations and/or adversely affect the destinations served by our airports. Any of these events could reduce our passenger traffic volume. The occurrence of natural disasters in the destinations we serve has adversely affected, and could in the future adversely affect, our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Some experts believe that climate change due to global warming could increase the frequency and severity of hurricanes in the future. We have insured the physical facilities at our airports against damage caused by natural disasters, accidents or other similar events, but do not have insurance covering losses due to resulting business interruption. Moreover, should losses occur, there can be no assurance that losses caused by damages to the physical facilities will not exceed the pre-established limits on the policies. On October 21, 2005, Hurricane Wilma struck the Yucatan Peninsula, causing severe damage to the infrastructure of the Cancun and Cozumel airports and to our administrative office building in Cancun. Cancun and Cozumel airports were closed for approximately 62 hours and 42 hours, respectively, and airport operations were disrupted for several weeks thereafter. The hurricane also inflicted extensive damage on the hotel and tourist infrastructure in Cancun, the Mayan Riviera region and Cozumel, which led to sharply reduced air passenger traffic at our airports, especially in the fourth quarter of 2005 and during the first half of 2006. During the fourth quarter of 2005, our passenger traffic decreased 33.1%, and revenues and operating income fell 32.6% and 86.5%, respectively, relative to the same period in 2004, reflecting the decline in passenger traffic. Tourism in Cancun and the Mayan Riviera has by now largely recovered from Hurricane Wilma, and tourism in Cozumel continues to recover. Other hurricanes, such as Hurricane Dean in August 2007, Hurricane Emily in July 2005 and Hurricane Ivan in September 2004, have also affected our operations. Increases in international petroleum prices could reduce demand for air travel. International prices of fuel, which represents a significant cost for airlines using our airports, have significantly increased over the past year and may be subject to further increases resulting from a reduction in output of petroleum, voluntary or otherwise, by oil-producing countries, other market forces, a general increase in international hostilities, or any future terrorist attacks. Such increases in airlines’ costs have resulted in higher airline ticket prices and may decrease demand for air travel generally, thereby having an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 6 Table of Contents Our business could be adversely affected by a downturn in the U.S. economy. In 2007, 66.7% of the international passengers served by our airports arrived or departed on flights originating in or departing to the United States. Thus, our business is dependent on the condition of the U.S. economy, and is particularly influenced by trends in the United States relating to leisure travel, consumer spending and international tourism. Events and conditions affecting the U.S. economy may adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. The U.S. economy has recently experienced and continues to experience an economic slowdown that may negatively affect our results of operations. If this slowdown becomes a prolonged economic crisis, it will likely have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. The loss of one or more of our key customers could result in a loss of a significant amount of our revenues. The global airline industry has recently experienced and continues to experience significant financial difficulties, marked by the filing for bankruptcy protection of several carriers and recent warnings regarding industry profitability, largely as a result of higher oil prices. On June 2, 2008, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) revised its 2008 financial forecast for the air transport industry downwards to a loss of US$2.3 billion, and said losses for the industry could be as high as US$6.1 billion. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not continue to generate comparable portions of our revenue from our key customers, including Mexicana (which accounted for 7.12% of our revenues in 2007), Aeromexico (4.94% of our revenues in 2007), American Airlines (which accounted for 4.74% of our revenues in 2007), and Continental Airlines (which accounted for 4.49% of our revenues in 2007). We do not have contracts with any airlines that obligate them to continue providing service to our airports and we can offer no assurance that competing airlines would seek to increase their flight schedules if any of our key customers reduced their use of our airports. We expect that we will continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from a relatively small number of airlines in the foreseeable future. Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not continue to generate comparable portions of our revenue from our key customers. In addition, Mexican law prohibits an international airline from transporting passengers from one Mexican location to another (unless the flight originated outside Mexico), which limits the number of airlines providing domestic service in Mexico. Accordingly, we expect to continue to generate a significant portion of our revenues from domestic travel from a limited number of airlines. Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from Cancun International Airport. In 2007, Ps. 2,108.1 million or 75.7% respectively, of our revenues were derived from operations at Cancun International Airport. During 2006 and 2007, Cancun International Airport represented 70.6% and 69.8%, respectively, of our passenger traffic and 44.1% and 43.5%, respectively, of our air traffic movements. The desirability of Cancun as a tourist destination and the level of tourism to the area is dependent on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot assure you that tourism in Cancun will not decline in the future. Any event or condition affecting Cancun International Airport or the areas that it serves could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. 7 Table of Contents The September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks had a severe impact on the international air travel industry and adversely affected our business. Similar events may do so again in the future. The events of September 11, 2001 resulted in a significant decline in passenger traffic worldwide and future terrorist attacks could result in similar declines. The terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001 had a severe adverse impact on the air travel industry, particularly on U.S. carriers and carriers operating international service to and from the United States. Airline traffic in the United States fell precipitously after the attacks. In Mexico, airline and passenger traffic decreased substantially, although the decrease was less severe than in the United States. Our airports experienced a significant decline in passenger traffic following September 11, 2001. Any future terrorists attacks, whether or not involving aircraft, will likely adversely affect our business, results of operations, prospects and financial condition. Security enhancements have resulted in increased costs and may expose us to greater liability. The air travel business is susceptible to increased costs resulting from enhanced security and higher insurance and fuel costs. Following the events of September 11, we reinforced security at our airports. For a description of the security measures that we adopted, see “