ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. We operate in a competitive business environment that is influenced by conditions that are both controllable and beyond our control. These conditions include, but are not limited to, the regional economy, monetary policy, and the political and regulatory environment. The following summarizes important risks and uncertainties that may materially affect our business in the future. Over a period of years, we have borrowed substantial amounts of money to finance acquisitions. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations to our senior and subordinated lenders, we would be in default under those obligations, and that could hurt our business or even result in foreclosure, reorganization or bankruptcy. The underlying loans are secured by substantially all of our assets. If we do not repay our indebtedness in a timely fashion, our secured creditors could declare a default and foreclose upon our assets, which would likely result in harmful disruption to our business, the sale of assets for less than their fully realizable value, and possible bankruptcy. We must generate enough cash flow to service this indebtedness until maturity. Fluctuations in interest rates could significantly increase our expenses. We will have significant interest expense for the foreseeable future, which in turn may increase or decrease due to interest rate fluctuations. To partially mitigate this risk, we have established fixed interest rates on 75% of our outstanding senior term debt. As a result of our large amount of debt, we may be perceived by banks and other lenders to be highly leveraged and close to our borrowing ceiling. Until we repay some of our debt, our ability to access additional capital may be limited. In turn, that may limit our ability to finance transactions and to grow our business. In addition, our senior credit agreement limits our ability to incur incremental debt without our lender’s permission. Our senior credit agreement contains numerous covenants and restrictions that affect how we conduct our business. The Baker family currently owns a majority of our voting stock and controls the company. Such control affects our corporate governance, and could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the company. The Baker family group, consisting of four current directors Henry Baker (Chairman Emeritus), Peter Baker (CEO), John Baker (Executive Vice President) and Ross Rapaport (Chairman), as trustee, together own a majority of our common stock. Accordingly, these stockholders, acting together, can exert a controlling influence over the outcome of matters requiring stockholder approval, such as the election of directors, amendments to our certificate of incorporation, mergers and various other matters. The concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control of the company. As permitted under the corporate governance rules of the American Stock Exchange (AMEX), we have, at the direction of the Baker family group, elected “controlled company” status under those rules. A controlled company is exempted from these AMEX corporate governance rules: (1) the requirement that a listed company have a majority of independent directors, (2) the requirement that nominations to the company’s board of directors be either selected or recommended by a nominating 11 Table of Contents committee consisting solely of independent directors, and (3) the requirement that officers’ compensation be either determined or recommended by a compensation committee consisting solely of independent directors. We do not currently utilize exemption (3) as we have a compensation committee consisting solely of three independent directors. Our success depends on the continued services of key personnel. Our continued success will depend in large part upon the expertise of our senior management. Peter Baker, our Chief Executive Officer and President, John Baker, our Executive Vice President, and Bruce MacDonald, our Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary, have entered into employment agreements with Vermont Pure Holdings, Ltd. These “at will” employment agreements do not prevent these employees from resigning. The departure or loss of any of these executives individually could have an adverse effect on our business and operations. The personal interests of our directors and officers create a conflict. As mentioned above, the Baker family group owns a majority of our common stock. In addition, in connection with the acquisition of Crystal Rock Spring Water Company in 2000, we issued members of the Baker family group (including Joan Baker, the wife of Henry Baker) 12% subordinated promissory notes secured by all of our assets. The current balance on these notes is approximately $14,000,000. We also lease important facilities in Watertown and Stamford, Connecticut from Baker family interests. These interests of the Baker family create various conflicts of interest. We face competition from companies with far greater resources than we have. In addition, methods of competition in the distribution of home and office refreshment products continue to change and evolve. If we are unable to meet these changes, our business could be harmed. We operate in highly competitive markets. The principal methods of competition in the markets in which we compete are distribution capabilities, brand recognition, quality, reputation, and price. We have a significant number of competitors, some of which have far greater resources than us. Among our principal competitors are Nestlé Waters North America, large regional brands owned by private groups, and local competitors in the markets that we serve. Price reductions and the introduction of new products by our competitors can adversely affect our revenues, gross margins, and profits. In addition, the industry has been affected by the increasing availability of water coolers in discount retail outlets. This has negatively impacted our rental revenue stream in recent years as more customers choose to purchase coolers rather than rent them. The reduction of rental revenue has been somewhat offset by the increase in coolers that we sell but not to the extent that rentals have declined. We do not expect retail sales to replace rentals completely because we believe that the purchase option does not provide the quality and service that many customers want. However, third party retail cooler sales may continue to negatively impact our rental revenues in the future. The bottled water industry is regulated at both the state and federal level. If we are unable to continue to comply with applicable regulations and standards in any jurisdiction, we might not be able to sell our products in that jurisdiction, and our business could be seriously harmed. The FDA regulates bottled water as a food. Our bottled water must meet FDA requirements of safety for human consumption, labeling, processing and distribution under sanitary conditions and production in accordance with FDA “good manufacturing practices.” In addition, all drinking water must meet Environmental Protection Agency standards established under the Safe Drinking Water 12 Table of Contents Act for mineral and chemical concentration and drinking water quality and treatment, which are enforced by the FDA. We also must meet state regulations in a variety of areas. These regulations set standards for approved water sources and the information that must be provided and the basis on which any therapeutic claims for water may be made. We have received approval for our drinking water in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Rhode Island and Vermont. However, we can give no assurance that we will receive such approvals in the future. Legislative and executive action in state and local governments banning the use of municipal funds for purchasing bottled water, enacting local taxes on bottled water or water extraction, and restricting water withdrawal and usage rights from public and private sources could adversely affect our business and financial results. Recent initiatives have taken place in several major cities regarding bottled water, principally the smaller sizes sold in stores to retail consumers. Regulations have been proposed in some localities that would ban the use of public funds to purchase bottled water and enact local taxes on bottled water or water extraction, and restrict the withdrawal of water from public and private sources. These actions are purportedly designed to discourage the use of bottled water due in large part to concerns about the environmental effects of producing and discarding large numbers of plastic bottles. In developing these stories, local and national media have reported on the growth of the bottled water industry and on the pros and cons of consuming bottled water as it relates to solid waste disposal and energy consumption in manufacturing as well as conserving the supply of water available to the public. We believe that the adverse publicity associated with these reports is generally aimed at the retail, small bottle segment of the industry that is now a minimal part of our business, and that our customers can readily distinguish our products from the retail bottles that are currently the basis for concern in some areas. Our customers typically buy their water in reusable five gallon containers that are placed on coolers and are reused many times and only approximately 4% of our total sales is from water sold in single serve packages.. In addition, we continue to take steps to “green” our business by means of solar electricity generation, high efficiency lighting, no-idling and other driving policies, and the use of biodiesel. While we believe that to date we have not directly experienced any adverse effects from these concerns, and that our products are sufficiently different from those under scrutiny, there is no assurance that adverse publicity about any element of the bottled water industry will not affect consumer behavior by discouraging buyers from buying bottled water products generally. In that case, our sales and other financial results could be adversely affected. We depend upon maintaining the integrity of our water resources and manufacturing process. If our water sources or bottling processes were contaminated for any reason, our business would be seriously harmed. Our ability to retain customers and the goodwill associated with our brands is dependent upon our ability to maintain the integrity of our water resources and to guard against defects in, or tampering with, our manufacturing process. The loss of integrity in our water resources or manufacturing process could lead to product recalls and/or customer illnesses that could significantly reduce our goodwill, market share and revenues. Because we rely upon natural spring sites for sourcing some of our water supply, acts of God, such as earthquakes, could alter the geologic formation of the spring sites, constricting water flow. 13 Table of Contents In addition, we do not own any of our water sources. Although we feel the long term rights to our spring and municipal sources are well secured, any dispute over these rights that resulted in prolonged disruption in supply could cause an increase in cost of our product or shortages that would not allow us to meet the market demand for our product. Fluctuations in the cost of essential raw materials and commodities, including fuel costs, for the manufacture and delivery of our products could significantly impact our business. We rely upon the raw material of polycarbonate, a commodity that is subject to fluctuations in price and supply, for manufacturing our bottles. Bottle manufacturers also use petroleum-based products. Increases in the cost of petroleum will likely have an impact on our bottle costs. Our transportation costs increase as the price of fuel rises. Because trucks are used extensively in the delivery of our products, the rising cost of fuel has impacted and can be expected to continue to impact the profitability of our operations unless we are able to pass along those costs to our customers. Further, limitations on the supply or availability of fuel could inhibit our ability to get raw materials and distribute our products, which in turn could have an adverse affect on our business. A significant portion of our sales, 21% in fiscal year 2007, is derived from coffee. The supply and price of coffee may be limited by climate, by international political and economic conditions, and by access to transportation, combined with consumer demand. An increase in the price of coffee could result in a reduction in our profitability. If our ability to purchase coffee were impaired by a market shortage, our sales might decrease, which would also result in a reduction of profitability. We have a limited amount of bottling capacity. Significant interruptions of our bottling facilities could adversely affect our business. We own three bottling facilities, and also contract with third parties, to bottle our water. If any of these facilities were incapacitated for an extended period of time, we would likely have to relocate production to an alternative facility. The relocation and additional transportation could increase the cost of our products or result in product shortages that would reduce sales. Higher costs and lower sales would reduce profitability. We rely upon a single software vendor that supplies the software for our route accounting system. Our route accounting system is essential to our overall administrative function and success. An extended interruption in servicing the system could result in the inability to access information. Limited or no access to this information would likely inhibit the distribution of our products and the availability of management information, and could even affect our compliance with public reporting requirements. Our supplier is Computer Design Systems, or CDS, of which we own approximately 24%. CDS has a limited number of staff that has proprietary information pertaining to the operation of the software. Changes in personnel might result in disruption of service. Any of these consequences could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial condition. Our customer base is located in New England, New York and New Jersey. If there were to be a material decline in the economy in these regions, our business would likely be adversely affected. 14 Table of Contents Essentially all of our sales are derived from New England, New York and New Jersey. A significant negative change in the economy of any of these regions, changes in consumer spending in these regions, or the entry of new competitors into these regional markets, among other factors, could result in a decrease in our sales and, as a result, reduced profitability. Our business is seasonal, which may cause fluctuations in our stock price. The period from June to September represents the peak period for sales and revenues due to increased consumption of beverages during the summer months in our core Northeastern United States markets. Warmer weather in our geographic markets tends to increase sales, and cooler weather tends to decrease sales. To the extent that our quarterly results are affected by these patterns, our stock price may fluctuate to reflect them. Acquisitions may disrupt our operations or adversely affect our results We regularly evaluate opportunities to acquire other businesses. The expenses we incur evaluating and pursuing acquisitions could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If we acquire a business, we may be unable to manage it profitably or successfully integrate its operations with our own. Moreover, we may be unable to realize the financial, operational, and other benefits we anticipate from these acquisitions. Competition for future acquisition opportunities in our markets could increase the price we pay for businesses we acquire and could reduce the number of potential acquisition targets. Further, acquisitions may involve a number of special financial and business risks, such as: • charges related to any potential acquisition from which we may withdraw; • diversion of our management’s time, attention, and resources; • decreased utilization during the integration process; • loss of key acquired personnel; • increased costs to improve or coordinate managerial, operational, financial, and administrative systems including compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002; • dilutive issuances of equity securities, including convertible debt securities; • the assumption of legal liabilities; • amortization of acquired intangible assets; • potential write-offs related to the impairment of goodwill; • difficulties in integrating diverse corporate cultures; and • additional conflicts of interests. We are required to be in full compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as of our fiscal year ending October 31, 2009. Under current regulations, the financial cost of compliance with Section 404 is significant. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal 15 Table of Contents control in accordance with Section 404 could have a material adverse effect on our business and our stock price. We are in the process of implementing the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires management to assess the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and include an assertion in our annual report as to the effectiveness of its controls. The cost to comply with this law will affect our net income adversely during the compliance period. In addition, management’s effort and cost are no assurance that our independent auditors will attest to the effectiveness of our internal controls in its report required by the law. If that is the case, the resulting report from our auditors may have a negative impact on our stock price. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 