Item 1A. Risk Factors. As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Our business faces a variety of risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur our business operations, performance and financial condition could be adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The current soft economic environment and continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. The global financial crisis that began in 2008 caused disruption in the financial markets, including somewhat diminished liquidity and credit availability. We are unable to predict the strength and duration of an economic recovery. During 2012 and continuing to today research customers in our major markets have been concerned about levels of future government spending. In the U.S., researchers appear concerned about the effects of the sequestration on the federal government’s future funding levels for life science research. While these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets to date, there can be no assurance that these conditions will not adversely affect our ability to do so in the future, particularly if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Continued concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, government spending to sponsor life science research, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could continue to negatively impact demand for our products. If economic growth in the U.S. and other countries continues to be slow and does not improve, customers may delay purchases of our products. The tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment on our industry or us. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. A potential decrease in the level of governmental spending allocated to scientific and medical research could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our revenues will likely be affected by various factors, including the timing of purchases by customers and the seasonal nature of purchasing in Europe. Our revenues will likely be affected by various factors, including the seasonal nature of purchasing in Europe. Our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including the timing of catalog mailings and new product introductions, the release of grant and budget funding, future acquisitions and our substantial sales to European customers, who in summer months often defer purchases. In particular, delays or reduction in purchase orders from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could have a material adverse effect on us and could adversely affect our stock price. 14 Table of Contents Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. We will consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. We expect that our competitors, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do, will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit our funds or the failure of such banking institution to provide services in the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or access to borrowings. We deposit our cash and cash equivalents with a number of financial institutions around the world. Should some or all of these financial institutions fail or otherwise be unable to timely perform requested services, we would likely have a limited ability to quickly access our cash deposited with such institutions. If we are unable to quickly access such funds, we may need to increase our use of our existing credit lines or access more expensive credit, if available. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or if we access existing or additional credit or are unable to access additional credit, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported net income, our financial position, or both. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce stockholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. We may also incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. We may not realize the expected benefits from acquisitions due to difficulties integrating the businesses, operations and product lines. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. The integration process is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We completed the acquisition of CMA Microdialysis in July 2011 and AHN in February 2012. We may have difficulty successfully integrating these and other acquired businesses, and their domestic and foreign operations or product lines, and as a result, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of these and other acquisitions. We cannot assure that our growth rate will equal the growth rates that have been experienced by us and these and other acquired companies, respectively, operating as separate companies in the past. We have been actively engaged in acquiring and divesting companies. As a result, we may be the subject of lawsuits from either an acquiring company’s stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, a divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders. We may be the subject of lawsuits from either an acquiring company’s stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, a divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders. Such lawsuits could result from the actions of the acquisition or divestiture target prior to the date of the acquisition or divestiture, from the acquisition or divestiture transaction itself or from actions after the acquisition or divestiture. Defending potential 15 Table of Contents lawsuits could cost us significant expense and detract management’s attention from the operation of the business. Additionally, these lawsuits could result in the cancellation of or the inability to renew certain insurance coverage that would be necessary to protect our assets. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (“US GAAP”), we review our goodwill and intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on us. We assess the recoverability of identifiable intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASU”) 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment”. In accordance with FASB ASU 350, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other”, goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives from acquisitions are evaluated annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment, to determine whether any portion of the remaining balance of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. If it is determined in the future that a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets is impaired, we will be required to write off that portion of the asset according to the methods defined by FASB ASU 360 and FASB ASU 350, which could have an adverse effect on net income for the period in which the write-off occurs. At December 31, 2012, our continuing operations had goodwill and intangible assets of $58.7 million, or 44%, of our total assets. We concluded that none of our goodwill or other intangible assets was impaired. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with US GAAP. These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled critical accounting policies beginning on page 43 in Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international revenues and operations. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our revenues from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 41.0% of 16 Table of Contents total revenues for 2012. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. The recent global economic slowdown has and could continue to have a negative effect on various foreign markets in which we operate. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: Ÿ the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies, including Europe in particular, outside the United States, Ÿ disruptions of capital and trading markets, Ÿ in-ability to collect accounts receivable, Ÿ limitations on repatriations of funds, Ÿ potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting the ability to or cost of repatriating profits, Ÿ difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, unfavorable labor regulations applicable to European operations, such as severance and the unenforceability of non-competition agreements in the European Union, Ÿ other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, political unrest, acts of war, natural disasters and diseases, Ÿ unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and Ÿ interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our reported earnings. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, which could have a materially adverse effect on the sales price of our products in foreign markets, as well as the costs and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries. Approximately 38.0% of our business during 2012 was conducted in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses. Generally, we have not used forward exchange contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposures. We attempt to manage foreign currency risk through the matching of assets and liabilities. In the future, we may undertake to manage foreign currency risk through hedging methods, including foreign currency contracts. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in managing foreign currency risk or in predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. If we are not able to manage our growth, our operating profits or losses may be adversely impacted. Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations through both organic growth and acquisitions. Effective growth management will place increased demands on our management team, operational and financial resources and expertise. To manage growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Failure to manage this growth effectively could impair our ability to generate revenue or could cause our expenses to increase more rapidly than revenue, resulting in operating losses or reduced profitability. We may incur additional restructuring costs or not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to reduce operating expenses. During the quarter ended September 30, 2010, we developed a plan to streamline our operations at Panlab s.l., our Harvard Apparatus business in Spain. The plan included workforce reduction in all functions of the organization and was carried out during that quarter. 17 Table of Contents During the quarter ended December 31, 2010, we developed a plan to reduce operating expenses at our Biochrom U.K. subsidiary. The plan included workforce reduction in all functions of the organization, inventory impairment charges and other charges and was carried out during that quarter. During the quarter ended September 30, 2011, we initiated a plan to relocate our Hoefer subsidiary’s San Francisco, California facility as part of a business improvement initiative. We also developed a plan to improve operating margins at our Coulbourn Instruments subsidiary. During 2012, we initiated a plan to reduce operating expenses at Panlab s.l., our Harvard Apparatus business in Spain. The plan included workforce reduction. We have incurred approximately $1.4 million in restructuring charges relating to our 2012, 2011 and 2010 restructuring plans and we may incur additional restructuring costs and we may not be able to fully realize the expected benefits of these initiatives. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements—Restructuring and Other Exit Costs. Spending in our Regenerative Medicine Device business will continue to have an adverse affect on our reported results of operations. As we continue to spend increased amounts to fund the development of our RMD business, such spending will reduce our net income from continuing operations as well as have an adverse impact on the adjusted earnings per share and results of operations. We may experience disruptions to our business in connection with the proposed initial public offering by our subsidiary Harvard Apparatus Regenerative Technology, Inc. On December 11, 2012, Harvard Apparatus Regenerative Technology, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiary, filed a Registration Statement on Form S-1 with the SEC relating to its proposed initial public offering. In connection with the proposed offering, any related distribution we may make with respect to our ownership of such subsidiary, or other action: Ÿ our stock price could fluctuate significantly in response to developments relating to the proposed offering or any related distribution or other action or market speculation regarding the proposed offering or any related distribution or other transaction; Ÿ our financial results may be harmed, and our ability to execute effectively upon our business plans may be affected adversely, because of the competing demands on management’s time and attention; Ÿ we may not achieve our desired tax treatment of the proposed offering or any related distribution or other transaction; Ÿ we may encounter difficulties in hiring, retaining and motivating key personnel during this process or as a result of uncertainties generated by this process or any developments or actions relating to it; Ÿ we may incur substantial increases in general and administrative expense associated with the need to retain and compensate third party consultants and advisors (including legal counsel); and Ÿ we may encounter difficulties in maintaining relationships or arrangements with customers, key suppliers, and other parties. In addition, there can be no assurance as to when the proposed offering or any related distribution or transaction will be completed, if at all. If we fail to retain key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue or increased costs. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time upon 18 Table of Contents short notice. The loss of the services of any member of the senior management team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chane Graziano, the President, David Green, the Chief Operating Officer, Susan Luscinski, the Chief Financial Officer, Thomas McNaughton, or any of the managerial, technical or scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. We operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including Boston, Massachusetts, the New York metropolitan area, London and Cambridge, England, where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the areas of general management, finance, information technology, engineering and science, and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy and expensive, and may become more expensive in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. We may be unsuccessful in developing new products for existing markets. Our strategy includes developing new products to drive organic growth in our businesses. We may be unsuccessful developing new products that will be well received in existing markets. The products we develop may have less market demand than we anticipate or the demand may be at substantially lower prices than we anticipate. Our competitors may develop new products or technologies that diminish demand for our new products. Our customers may receive decreased funding levels, which may cause their demand for our products to decrease. Our efforts to develop new intellectual property and new products may be costly. Failure in our new product development program could have a material impact on our results of operation and our financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in launching new products or expanding product offerings in the field of regenerative medicine. We announced the launch of our “InBreath” bioreactor, which was our first product in the field of regenerative medicine. Since that time, we have developed additional bioreactor products and we intend to expand our portfolio of bioreactors in the field of regenerative medicine. We have also developed synthetic scaffold products for regenerative medicine. Scaffolds are artificial structures capable of supporting three-dimensional tissue formation. In regenerative medicine cells are implanted or “seeded” into scaffold. Scaffolds usually serve at least one of the following purposes: allow cell attachment and migration, deliver and retain cells and biochemical factors, enable diffusion of vital cell nutrients and expressed products, and exert certain mechanical and biological influences to modify the behaviour of the cell phase. In addition to developing bioreactors and synthetic scaffolds, we are also developing a stem cell therapy injector based on our market leading Harvard Apparatus research syringe pump technology. We intend to develop a series of products to address what we believe is a long-term growth opportunity in the field of regenerative medicine. Although we believe the field of regenerative medicine presents long-term opportunities for us, we may be unsuccessful in identifying and pursuing such opportunities. We will be required to obtain regulatory approvals, including FDA and EU approvals, for our products in the field of regenerative medicine and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all. In addition, obtaining regulatory approvals may require us to complete clinical trials necessary to support the approvals for our products and such trials will be expensive and can take a significant amount of time. Even if our clinical trials are completed as planned, we cannot be certain that their results will support our product claims or that the FDA, foreign competent authorities or notified bodies will agree with our conclusions regarding them. Even if our products in the field of regenerative medicine are cleared or approved by regulatory authorities, if we or our suppliers fail to comply with ongoing FDA or other foreign regulatory authority requirements, or if we experience unanticipated problems with our products, these products could be subject to restrictions or withdrawal from the market. 19 Table of Contents We may be unsuccessful in introducing new products in the field of regenerative medicine, expanding current product offerings and commercializing existing or new technologies. In addition, there may be a lack of demand in the present or in the future for the products that we introduce in the field of regenerative medicine. The current size and the anticipated size of the regenerative medicine market may be smaller than what we currently believe. In addition, the existence and size of the opportunities that we believe currently are, or may in the future be, available to us may not exist or develop. We may experience competition from many competitors, some of whom may have greater resources or better products or technologies than we do. Our customers may experience decreased demand for our products and research funding levels from endowments at our university customers may decrease. Finally, we will need to acquire, develop and protect our intellectual property, which may involve significant costs, and operate without infringing on the intellectual property of others. Any failure in our pursuit of opportunities in the field of regenerative medicine could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. If our collaborators in the field of regenerative medicine do not devote sufficient time and resources to successfully carry out their duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to advance our products in the field of regenerative medicine in a timely manner or at all. We are currently collaborating in the field of regenerative medicine with multiple academic researchers and clinicians at a variety of research and clinical institutions. Our success in the field of regenerative medicine depends in part on the performance of our collaborators. Some collaborators may not be successful in their research and clinical trials or may not perform their obligations in a timely fashion or in a manner satisfactory to us. Typically, we cannot control the amount of resources or time our collaborators may devote to our programs or potential products that may be developed in collaboration with us. Our collaborators frequently depend on outside sources of funding to conduct or complete research and development, such as grants or other awards. In addition, our academic collaborators may depend on graduate students, medical students, or research assistants to conduct certain work, and such individuals may not be fully trained or experienced in certain areas, or they may elect to discontinue their participation in a particular research program, creating an inability to complete ongoing research in a timely and efficient manner. As a result of these uncertainties, we are unable to control the precise timing and execution of any experiments that may be conducted. We do not have formal agreements in place with most of our collaborators in the field of regenerative medicine, who retain the ability to pursue other research, product development or commercial opportunities that may be directly competitive with our programs. If these collaborators elect to prioritize or pursue other programs in lieu of ours, we may not be able to advance product development programs in an efficient or effective manner, if at all. If a collaborator is pursuing a competitive program and encounters unexpected financial or capability limitations, they may be motivated to reduce the priority placed on our programs or delay certain activities related to our programs. Any of these developments could harm or slow our product and technology development efforts. In particular, in the field of regenerative medicine we depend upon Dr. Paolo Macchiarini, the surgeon who has led all of the clinical surgeries to date using our technology. Dr. Macchiarini’s team developed the initial version of our InBreath airway bioreactor, which we have licensed from the inventors. We continue to collaborate with Dr. Macchiarini on grant proposals and product development. If Dr. Macchiarini were not available to continue to collaborate with us or perform surgeries it would materially slow development of our products. On September 27, 2012, Dr. Macchiarini was arrested in Italy for attempted fraud and extortion for allegedly attempting to persuade severely ill patients to choose private hospitals in other countries over less expensive Italian public hospitals. He was temporarily placed under house arrest and on October 15, 2012 was released from house arrest and is free to travel internationally and to perform surgeries. The case is ongoing. Dr. Macchiarini believes these charges are without merit and has, and intends to continue to, vigorously defend these charges. These allegations do not relate to any surgeries involving our products and have not prevented Dr. Macchiarini from making preparations for further transplant surgeries using our products at the Karolinska Hospital, or in the U.S. or Russia. If Dr. Macchiarini decides to terminate his collaboration with us, if the case described above consumes a significant amount of his time, or if the case prevents him from performing 20 Table of Contents surgeries, our product development efforts could be adversely affected and it could cause harm to our reputation or business. Our competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products. We expect to encounter increased competition from both established and development-stage companies that continually enter the market. We anticipate that these competitors will include: Ÿ companies developing and marketing life sciences research tools, Ÿ health care companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers, Ÿ diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, Ÿ analytical instrument companies, Ÿ companies developing life science or drug discovery technologies, and Ÿ companies developing regenerative medicine technologies. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies that provide products that perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and tactical discounts, and may have greater name recognition. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the field. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our products compete in markets that are subject to technological change, and therefore one or more of our products could be made obsolete by new technologies. Because the market for life science tools is characterized by technological change and frequent new product introductions, our product lines may be made obsolete unless we are able to continually improve existing products and develop new products. To meet the evolving needs of customers, we must continually enhance our current and planned products and develop and introduce new products. However, we may experience difficulties that may delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies that are subject to change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. Our failure to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers could cause our product sales to decline, and we could experience significant losses. We offer and plan to offer a broad product line and have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for development of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. The speed of technological change in our market may prevent us from being able to successfully market some or all of our products for the length of time required to recover development costs. Failure to recover the development costs of one or more products or product lines could decrease our profitability or cause us to experience significant losses. Rising commodity and precious metals costs could adversely impact our profitability. Raw material commodities such as resins, and precious metal commodities such as platinum are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs and availability of these commodities and the costs of energy, transportation and other necessary services may adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along any higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies such as in manufacturing and distribution. 21 Table of Contents Our $20.0 million credit facility contains certain financial and negative covenants, the breach of which may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a $20.0 million revolving credit loan agreement with Bank of America, as agent, and Bank of America and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co as lenders. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, we had borrowings of $13.0 million and $16.3 million, respectively, under the credit facility. The credit facility includes covenants relating to income, debt coverage and cash flow and minimum working capital requirements. The credit facility also contains limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $6.0 million and for acquisitions funded solely with equity in excess of $10.0 million. If we are not in compliance with certain of these covenants, in addition to other actions the creditor may require, the amounts drawn on the $20.0 million facility may become immediately due and payable. This immediate payment may negatively impact our financial condition. Failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to implement our acquisition strategy, finance the development of our Regenerative Medicine Device business, expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and result in less revenue. We anticipate that our financial resources, which include available cash, cash generated from operations, and debt and equity capacity, will be sufficient to finance operations and capital expenditures for at least twelve months. However, this expectation is premised on the current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors, including market acceptance of new products and future opportunities with collaborators. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. Our inability to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all) could seriously harm our business, product development, development of our RMD business and acquisition efforts. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt or equity-linked securities, existing percentages of ownership in our common stock will be reduced. In addition, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products, or grant licenses to third parties on terms that are unfavorable. In addition, our revolving credit loan agreement with Bank of America, as agent, and Bank of America and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co as lenders, contains limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $6.0 million and for acquisitions funded solely with equity in excess of $10.0 million. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to alter our operations or change our business strategy. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund operations or our acquisition strategy will be available in the future. If GE Healthcare (formerly Amersham Biosciences) terminates its distribution agreements with us, fails to renew such agreements on favorable terms or fails to perform its obligations under the distribution agreements, it could impair the marketing and distribution efforts for some of our products and result in lost revenues. We have distribution agreements with GE Healthcare in two of our businesses. In April 2008, our Biochrom subsidiary entered into a new distribution agreement with GE Healthcare that expires December 31, 2013 if it is not extended by GE Healthcare for an additional one-year period. In November 2003, in connection with the acquisition of Hoefer from GE Healthcare, we entered into a separate distribution agreement with GE Healthcare for the distribution of the Hoefer products. This contract expires in September 30, 2013. We believe our relationship with GE Healthcare is good. However, we cannot guarantee that the distribution agreements will be renewed, that GE Healthcare will aggressively market our products in the future or that GE Healthcare will continue the partnership. If any of these events occurs, our marketing and distribution efforts for some of our products may be impaired and our revenues may be adversely impacted. 22 Table of Contents For 2012, approximately 6% of our revenues were generated through our two distribution agreements with GE Healthcare. We have little or no control over GE Healthcare’s marketing and sales activities or the use of its resources. GE Healthcare may fail to purchase sufficient quantities of products from us or perform appropriate marketing and sales activities. The failure by GE Healthcare to perform these activities could materially adversely affect our business and growth prospects. In addition, following any termination of such agreements, our inability to enter into new agreements with GE Healthcare for product distribution could materially impede the growth of our business and our ability to generate sufficient revenue. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We also own numerous U.S. registered trademarks and trade names and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not be accepted and patents might not be issued, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued or which may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive could be materially impaired. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not be able to obtain these agreements in all circumstances in part due to local regulations. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade-secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. The manufacture, sale and use of products and services may expose us to product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability. We face an inherent business risk of exposure to product liability claims if our products, services or product candidates, including without limitation, any of our life science research tools or our “InBreath” bioreactors , syringe pumps or synthetic scaffolds utilized now or in the future in relation to our Regenerative Medical Device division, are alleged or found to have caused injury, damage or loss. Such losses could include claims for liabilities relating to patients that suffer serious complications or death during or following transplants involving our Regenerative Medical Device division products. We may in the future be unable to obtain insurance with adequate levels of coverage for potential liability on acceptable terms or claims of this nature may be excluded from coverage under the terms of any insurance policy that we can obtain. If we are unable to obtain such insurance or the amounts of any claims successfully brought against us substantially exceed our coverage, then our business could be adversely impacted. 23 Table of Contents If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with the regulations of the United States Food and Drug Administration and other governmental agencies, we may be forced to recall products and cease their manufacture and distribution, and we could be subject to civil or criminal penalties. Our operations are subject to regulation by different state and federal government agencies in the United States and other countries. If we fail to comply with those regulations, we could be subject to fines, penalties, criminal prosecution or other sanctions. Some of the products we produce are subject to regulation by the United States Food and Drug Administration and similar foreign and domestic agencies. These regulations govern a wide variety of product activities, from design and development to labeling, manufacturing, promotion, sales, resales and distribution. If we fail to comply with those regulations or those of similar foreign and domestic agencies, we may have to recall products, cease their manufacture and distribution, and may be subject to fines or criminal prosecution. Our 2002 merger with Genomic Solutions may fail to qualify as a reorganization for federal income tax purposes, resulting in the recognition of taxable gain or loss in respect of our treatment of the merger as a taxable sale. Both we and Genomic Solutions intended the merger to qualify as a reorganization within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Although the Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, has not provided a ruling on the matter, Genomic Solutions obtained a legal opinion from its tax counsel that the merger constitutes a non-taxable reorganization for federal income tax purposes. This opinion does not bind the IRS or prevent the IRS from adopting a contrary position. If the merger fails to qualify as a non-taxable reorganization, the merger would be treated as a deemed taxable sale of assets by Genomic Solutions for an amount equal to the merger consideration received by Genomic Solutions’ stockholders plus any liabilities assumed by us. As successor to Genomic Solutions, we would be liable for any tax incurred by Genomic Solutions as a result of this deemed asset sale. If we were to be liable for any such tax, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time-consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. Several of our products are based on patents that are closely surrounded by patents held by competitors or potential competitors. As a result, we believe there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our patents were not closely surrounded by other patents. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits should they occur. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of being rejected and no patents being issued. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, including the patent rights, trademarks and trade names of third parties. We have received correspondence from legal counsel to Nanofiber Solutions, Inc., or NFS, claiming that in developing our scaffold product and related intellectual property, we 24 Table of Contents may have committed misappropriation, unauthorized use and disclosure of confidential information, and possible infringement of intellectual property rights of NFS. Intellectual property litigation is costly and the outcome is uncertain. If we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity, or obtain a license to or design around the intellectual property in question. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to design around any third party patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products and services, which could result in reduced revenue. Many of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be one of our major sources of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as pricing pressures as third-party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, ongoing consolidation and uncertainty of technological change, and to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries. In particular, the biotechnology industry is largely dependent on raising capital to fund its operations. If biotechnology companies that are our customers are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical or biotechnology companies that are our customers suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. A decrease in the level of governmental spending, such as the anticipated effects from sequestration on U.S. government spending, allocated to scientific and medical research could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants, and could also have an adverse impact on our results of operations. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Customer, vendor and employee uncertainty about the effects of any of our acquisitions could harm us. We and the customers of any company we acquire may, in response to the consummation of the acquisition, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by customers could adversely affect our business. Similarly, employees of acquired companies may experience uncertainty about their future role until or after we execute our post-acquisition strategies. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel following an acquisition. Ethical concerns surrounding the use of our products and misunderstanding of the nature of our business could adversely affect our ability to develop and sell our existing products and new products. Some of our products may be used in areas of research and clinical usage involving cloning, cell-based technologies, including stem cells, human tissue and organ transplants, animal research and other techniques presently being explored in the life science or regenerative medicine industries. These techniques have drawn 25 Table of Contents much negative attention recently in the public forum. Government authorities may regulate or prohibit any of these activities. Additionally, the public may disfavor or reject these activities. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and could experience substantial declines in the future and, as a result, management’s attention may be diverted from tasks that are more productive. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may become volatile and could decline in the future, perhaps substantially, in response to various factors including: Ÿ volatility of the financial markets, Ÿ uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, Ÿ technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies, Ÿ revenues and operating results fluctuating or failing to meet the expectations of management, securities analysts, or investors in any quarter, Ÿ developments relating to the proposed offering by HART or any related distribution or other action or market speculation regarding the proposed offering or any related distribution or other transaction, Ÿ failure to achieve our desired tax treatment of the proposed offering by HART or any related distribution or other transaction, Ÿ comments of securities analysts and mistakes by or misinterpretation of comments from analysts, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or management guidance, Ÿ investment banks and securities analysts becoming subject to lawsuits that may adversely affect the perception of the market, Ÿ conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, Ÿ announcements of significant acquisitions or financings or changes in strategic partnerships, Ÿ non-compliance with the internal control standards pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and Ÿ a decrease in the demand for our common stock. In addition, public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volatility. The stock market and the NASDAQ Global Market in general, and the biotechnology industry and small cap markets in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that at times may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may further harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Provisions of Delaware law, of our charter and bylaws and our Shareholder Rights Plan may make a takeover more difficult, which could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt, which is opposed by management and the board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. In February 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, the Company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 20% or more of our common stock (an “Acquiring Person”) could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all shareholders other than the Acquiring Person. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to 26 Table of Contents change the composition of the board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. Such provisions may also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Although our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for the shares may not be sustained. This could negatively affect the price for our common stock, including investors’ ability to buy or sell our common stock and the listing thereof. Any issuance of preferred stock in the future may dilute the rights of our common stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of these shares. The board of directors may exercise this authority without any further approval of stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of future holders of preferred stock. Cash dividends will not likely be paid on our common stock. Currently, we intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the expansion and development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the near future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be a stockholder’s sole source of gain for the near future. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 