Item 1A. Risk Factors. You should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information included in this report. Each of these risks could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock or other securities. If we are not able to generate sufficient funds from our operations and other financing sources, we may not be able to finance our planned development activity, acquisitions or service our debt. We have been dependent on debt and equity financing to fund our cash needs that are not funded from operations or the sale of assets. In addition, low commodity prices, production problems, disappointing drilling results and other factors beyond our control could reduce our funds from operations and may restrict our ability to obtain additional financing or to pay interest and principal on our debt obligations. Furthermore, we have incurred losses in the past that may affect our ability to obtain financing. Quantifying or predicting the likelihood of any or all of these occurring is difficult in the current domestic and world economy. For these reasons, financing may not be available to us in the future on acceptable terms or at all. In the event additional capital is required but not available on acceptable terms, we would curtail our acquisition, drilling, development and other activities or could be forced to sell some of our assets on an untimely or unfavorable basis. Our 2011 development plans in the Gulf of Mexico, as well as our longer term business plan, are dependent on receiving approval for deepwater drilling and other permits submitted to the BOEM. While we believe we can satisfy the permitting requirements for our planned 2011 development wells which will allow us to significantly increase our production from current levels, there is no assurance that they will be received in time to benefit our 2011 results or that permits will be issued in the future. Should the permitting process in the Gulf of Mexico continue to be delayed, we believe we can continue to meet our existing obligations for at least the next twelve months; however, absent alternative funding sources, our ability to do so is dependent on maintaining existing production levels from our currently producing wells and maintaining commodity prices and operating costs near current levels. The size of our operations and our capital expenditures budget limit the number of properties that we can develop in any given year and a substantial portion of our current production is concentrated among relatively few wells located offshore in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea, which are characterized by rapid production declines. As a result, we are particularly vulnerable to a near term severe impact resulting from unanticipated complications in the development of, or production from, any single material well or infrastructure installation, including lack of sufficient capital, delays in receiving necessary drilling and operating permits, increased regulation, reduced access to equipment and services, mechanical or operational failures, and bad weather. Any unanticipated significant disruption to, or decline in, our current production levels or negative changes in current commodity prices or operating cost levels could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and cash flows and our ability to meet our commitments as they come due. We have historically obtained various other sources of funding to 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements supplement our cash flow from operations and we will continue to pursue them in the future, however, there is no assurance that these alternative sources will be available should these risks and uncertainties materialize. We recently amended our first lien credit facility to provide for an increase to the principal amount from the current $150 million to the lesser or $210 million or 10% of the Company’s Adjusted Consolidated Net Tangible Assets, which we expect will provide an additional $60 million, before transaction costs, of available liquidity. Our longer term liquidity is also dependent on our ability to bring the next two wells at Telemark on production in the near term and continuing to operate in the Gulf of Mexico, which we expect will generate sufficient cash flows to fund subsequent development projects and service our long-term debt and other obligations. Our longer term liquidity is also dependent on the prevailing prices for oil and natural gas which have historically been very volatile. To mitigate future price volatility, we may continue to hedge the sales price of a portion of our future production. The U.S. governmental and regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident and resulting oil spill could have a prolonged and material adverse impact on our Gulf of Mexico operations. On April 20, 2010, a semi-submersible drilling rig operating in the deepwater Outer Continental Shelf (“OCS”) in the Gulf of Mexico exploded, burned for two days and sank, resulting in an oil spill in Gulf of Mexico waters. In response to this crisis, the DOI, on May 6, 2010, instructed the MMS to stop issuing drilling permits for OCS wells and to suspend existing OCS drilling permits issued after April 20, 2010, until May 28, 2010, when a report on the accident was expected to be completed. On May 28, 2010, DOI issued a moratorium (“Moratorium I”), originally scheduled to last for six months, that essentially halted all drilling in water depths greater than 500 feet in the Gulf of Mexico. On June 7, 2010, a lawsuit was filed by several suppliers of services to Gulf of Mexico exploration and production companies challenging the legality of Moratorium I. This challenge was successful and on June 22, 2010, a Federal District Court issued a preliminary injunction preventing Moratorium I from taking effect. On July 8, 2010, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit denied the DOI’s motion to stay the preliminary injunction against the enforcement of Moratorium I. On July 12, 2010, in response to the Court’s actions, the DOI issued a second moratorium (“Moratorium II”) originally scheduled to end on November 30, 2010 that (i) specifically superseded Moratorium I, (ii) suspended all existing operations in the Gulf of Mexico and other regions of the OCS utilizing a subsea blowout preventer (“BOP”) or a surface BOP on a floating facility, and (iii) suspended pending and future permits to drill wells involving the use of a subsurface BOP or a surface BOP on a floating facility. Several lawsuits challenging the legality of Moratorium II and, among other things, the BOEM handling of drilling permits and development plans were subsequently filed in different Federal District Courts, all of which have been consolidated into one case in a Federal District Court that is still pending. On October 12, 2010 the DOI lifted Moratorium II as to all deepwater drilling activity. The lifting of Moratorium II, however, did not remove all restrictions on offshore drilling. According to DOI’s order lifting Moratorium II, prior to receiving new permits to drill wells, OCS lessees and operators must first comply with an earlier notice to lessees and operators issued by the BOEM that requires additional testing, third-party verification, training for rig personnel, and governmental approvals to enhance well bore integrity and the operation of BOPs and other well control equipment used in OCS wells, (“NTL 2010-No.5”). NTL 2010-No.5 was set aside by the Federal District Court on October 19, 2010, as having been improperly issued by BOEM. The DOI’s order lifting Moratorium II, however, also requires OCS lessees and operators to comply with BOEM’s Interim Final Rule entitled “Increased Safety Measures for Energy Development on the Outer Continental Shelf (the “Safety Interim Final Rule”) issued in September 2010, before recommencing deepwater operations. In general, the Safety Interim Final Rule incorporates the terms of NTL 2010-No.5 and establishes new safety requirements relating to the design of wells and testing of the integrity of well bores, the use of drilling fluids, and the functionality and testing of BOPs. Longer term, OCS lessees and operators will be required to comply with the BOEM’s new Final Workplace Safety Rule, also issued by BOEM in September 2010. The Final Workplace Safety Rule requires all OCS operators to implement all of the formerly voluntary practices in the American Petroleum Institute’s Recommended Practice 75, which includes the development and maintenance of a Safety and Environmental Management System, within one year after the date of the rule. In addition to these two rules, before a permit will be issued, each operator must 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements demonstrate that it has enforceable obligations that ensure that containment resources are available promptly in the event of a deepwater blowout. Although Moratorium II has been lifted, we cannot predict with certainty when permits will be granted under the new requirements. We cannot predict how federal and state authorities will further respond to the incident in the Gulf of Mexico or whether additional changes in laws and regulations governing oil and gas operations in the Gulf of Mexico will result. New regulations already issued will, and potential future regulations or additional statutory limitations, if enacted or issued, could, require a change in the way we conduct our business, increase our costs of doing business or ultimately prohibit us from drilling for or producing hydrocarbons in the Gulf of Mexico. We cannot predict if or how the governments of other countries in which we operate will respond to the accident in the Gulf of Mexico. We have planned drilling operations in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, some of which were permitted prior to April 20, 2010, and some of which are not yet permitted. Moratorium II has caused us to delay the third and fourth wells scheduled at our Telemark Hub and, even though Moratorium II has been lifted, any delays in the resumption of the permitting process may result in delays in our drilling operations scheduled in 2011 at our Gomez Hub as well. During 2010, a side-track well operation in 7,000 feet of water was interrupted when Moratorium I was imposed and work on that project stopped, resulting in the early termination of a drilling contract. In the course of obtaining a full release from our obligations under the contract, we incurred net costs of $8.7 million reflected as drilling interruption costs on our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Additionally, because the necessary deepwater drilling permits were not issued, drilling interruption costs also include $14.9 million of stand-by costs related to drilling operations at our Telemark and Gomez Hubs. Delays in the development of or production curtailment at our material properties, including at our Telemark Hub, may adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The size of our operations and our capital expenditures budget limits the number of properties that we can develop in any given year. Complications in the development of any single major well or infrastructure installation may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during 2010 our operations have been curtailed due to the imposition of the deepwater drilling moratoriums and permitting slowdown discussed above. We cannot predict with certainty if or when the BOEM will issue to us the necessary deepwater drilling permits to us. During 2009, delays obtaining workover permits for an operation at our Gomez Hub pushed completion of the workover from the fourth quarter of 2009 to late January 2010. During 2008, we experienced production delays and increased costs at our High Island A-589 project in the Gulf of Mexico. Also, see the above discussion of the U.S. regulatory response to the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig accident. In addition, relatively few wells contribute a substantial portion of our production. If we were to experience operational problems or adverse commodity prices resulting in the curtailment of production in any of these wells, our total production levels would be adversely affected, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. For example, during September 2008, Hurricane Ike caused wide-spread damage to many pipelines in the Gulf of Mexico. While our facilities suffered only minimal damage, production curtailments resulting from damages to third-party infrastructure, especially downstream of the Gomez Hub, significantly impacted our cash flows for several months. Our actual development results are likely to differ from our estimates of our oil and gas reserves. We may experience production that is less than estimated and development costs that are greater than estimated in our reserve reports. Such differences may be material. Estimates of our oil and natural gas reserves and the costs and timing associated with developing these reserves may not be accurate. Additionally, at December 31, 2010, approximately 81% of our total proved reserves are classified as undeveloped. Development of these reserves may not yield the expected results, or the development may be delayed or the development costs may exceed our estimates, any of which may materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Development activity may result in downward adjustments of reserves or higher than estimated costs. 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our estimates of our proved oil and natural gas reserves and the estimated future net revenues from such reserves are based upon various assumptions, including assumptions required by the SEC relating to oil and natural gas prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures, taxes and availability of funds. This process requires significant decisions and assumptions in the evaluation of available geological, geophysical, engineering and economic data for each reservoir. Therefore, these estimates are inherently imprecise and the quality and reliability of this data can vary. Any significant variance could materially affect the estimated quantities and PV-10 value of our reserves. Our properties may also be susceptible to hydrocarbon drainage from production by other operators on adjacent properties. In addition, we will likely adjust estimates of proved reserves to reflect production history, results of development, prevailing oil and natural gas prices and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Actual production, revenues, taxes, development expenditures and operating expenses with respect to our reserves may vary materially from our estimates. We have significant debt, trade payables, other long-term obligations. Our trade payables, other long-term obligations and related interest payment requirements and scheduled debt maturities may have important negative consequences. For instance, they could: • make it more difficult or render us unable to satisfy these or our other financial obligations; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of any cash flow from operations to the payment of overriding royalties or interest and principal due under our debt, which will reduce funds available for other business purposes; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to some of our competitors that have less financial leverage; and • limit our ability to obtain additional financing required to fund working capital and capital expenditures and for other general corporate purposes. Our ability to satisfy our financial obligations and commitments depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. We cannot provide assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flow or that future financings will be available to provide sufficient proceeds to meet these obligations. The inability to meet our financial obligations and commitments will impede the successful execution of our business strategy and the maintenance of our economic viability. Oil and natural gas prices are volatile, and low prices have had in the past and could have in the future a material adverse impact on our business. Our revenues, profitability and future growth and the carrying value of our properties depend substantially on the prices we realize for our oil and natural gas production. Our realized prices also affect the amount of cash flow available for capital expenditures and our ability to borrow and raise additional capital. Historically, the markets for oil and natural gas have been volatile, and they are likely to continue to be volatile. For example, oil and natural gas prices increased significantly in late 2000 and early 2001 and then steadily declined in 2001. This phenomenon occurred again beginning in 2004 when oil prices began to climb and reached an all-time high in mid 2008. By the end of 2008, oil had lost nearly two-thirds of its value, dropping from a high of $146 per barrel in July 2008 to a close of $45 per barrel in December 2008. In February 2009, oil closed at its lowest price for the year of $33.98 per barrel. In 2010, oil has climbed to over $90 per barrel toward the end of the year. Among the factors that have caused and may continue to cause this volatility are: • worldwide or regional demand for energy, which is affected by economic conditions; • the domestic and foreign supply of oil and natural gas; 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • volatility in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies; • governmental regulations or lack of regulations around the world; • the continuation of Moratorium II after October 12, 2010 and the uncertainty of when the BOEM will issue permits for deepwater drilling; • political conditions in oil or natural gas producing regions; • the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to agree upon and maintain oil prices and production levels; • speculative trading in crude oil and natural gas derivative contracts; • weather conditions; and • price and availability of alternative fuels. It is impossible to predict oil and natural gas price movements with certainty. Lower oil and natural gas prices may not only decrease our revenues on a per-unit basis but also may reduce the amount of oil and natural gas that we can produce economically. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices may materially and adversely affect our future business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and ability to finance planned capital expenditures. Further, oil prices and natural gas prices do not necessarily move together. Rapid growth may place significant demands on our resources. We have experienced rapid growth in our operations and expect that significant expansion of our operations will continue. Our rapid growth has placed, and our anticipated future growth will continue to place, a significant demand on our managerial, operational and financial resources due to: • the need to manage relationships with various strategic partners and other third parties; • difficulties in hiring, managing and retaining skilled personnel necessary to support our rapid growth; • the need to train and manage a growing employee base; and • pressures for the continued development of our financial and information management systems. If we have not made adequate allowances for the costs and risks associated with this expansion or if our systems, procedures or controls are not adequate to support our operations, our business could be adversely impacted. Our success depends on dedicated and skillful management and staff, whose departure could disrupt our business operations. Our success will depend on our ability to retain and attract experienced geoscientists and other professional staff. As of December 31, 2010, we had 27 engineers, geologist/geophysicists and other technical personnel in our Houston office, 3 engineers, geologist/geophysicists and other technical personnel in our U.K. location and 1 engineer in our Netherlands office. We depend to a large extent on the efforts, technical expertise and continued employment of these personnel and members of our management team. If a significant number of them resign or become unable to continue in their present role and if they are not adequately replaced, our business operations could be adversely affected. Our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover some liabilities or losses that we may incur. We maintain insurance to protect the Company and its subsidiaries against losses arising out of our oil and gas operations. Our insurance includes coverage for physical damage to our offshore properties, general (third party) liability, workers compensation and employers liability, seepage and pollution and other risks. Our insurance includes various limits and deductibles or retentions, which must be met prior to or in conjunction with recovery. Additionally, our insurance is subject to the terms, conditions and exclusions of such policies. For losses emanating from offshore operations, ATP has up to an aggregate of $2.1 billion of various insurance coverages with individual policy limits ranging from $1.0 million to over $500 million each. While we maintain insurance levels, deductibles and retentions that we believe are prudent and responsible, there is no assurance that such coverage will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In general, our current insurance policies cover physical damage to our oil and gas assets. The coverage is designed to repair or replace assets damaged by insurable events. Our excess liability policies generally provide coverage (dependent on the asset) for bodily injury and property damage, including coverage for negative environmental effects such as seepage and pollution. This liability coverage would cover claims for bodily injury or death brought against the company by or on behalf of individuals who are not employees of the company. The liability limits scale to either our operating interest or the total insured interest including nonoperating partners. Our energy insurance package includes coverage for operator’s extra expense, which provides coverage for control of well, re-drill and pollution arising from a covered event. We maintain a $150 million Oil Spill Financial Responsibility policy in order to provide a Certificate of Financial Responsibility to the BOEM under the requirements of the Oil Pollution Act of 1990. Additionally, as noted above, our excess liability policies provide coverage (dependent on the asset) for bodily injury and property damage, including coverage for negative environmental effects such as seepage and pollution. Legislation has been proposed to increase the limit of the Oil Spill Financial Responsibility policy required for the certificate and there is no assurance that we will be able to obtain this insurance should that happen. The occurrence of a significant accident or other event not fully covered by our insurance could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition. Our insurance does not protect us against all operational risks. We do not carry business interruption insurance at levels that would provide enough funds for us to continue operating without access to other funds. For some risks, we may not obtain insurance if we believe the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. Because third-party contractors and other service providers are used in our offshore operations, we may not realize the full benefit of worker’s compensation laws in dealing with their employees. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable. Our price risk management decisions may reduce our potential gains from increases in commodity prices and may result in losses. We utilize derivative instruments and fixed-price forward sales contracts with respect to a portion of our expected production, in order to manage our exposure to oil and natural gas price volatility. These instruments expose us to risk of financial loss if: • production is less than expected for forward sales contracts; • the counterparty to the derivative instrument defaults on its contract obligations; or • there is an adverse change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the derivative instrument or fixed-price forward sales contract and actual price received. Our results of operations may be negatively impacted in the future by our derivative instruments and fixed-price forward sales contracts as these instruments may limit any benefit we would receive from increases in the prices for oil and natural gas. Potential regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding derivatives could adversely impact our ability to engage in commodity price risk management activities. Periodically we enter into commodity derivative contracts as an economic hedge on a portion of our oil and natural gas sales. On July 21, 2010, Congress enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), which imposes a comprehensive regulatory scheme significantly impacting companies engaged in over-the-counter (“OTC”) swap transactions. The Dodd-Frank Act generally applies to “swaps” entered into by “major swap participants” and/or “swap dealers,” each as defined in the Dodd-Frank Act. A swap is very broadly defined in the Dodd-Frank Act and includes an energy commodity swap. A swap dealer includes an entity that regularly enters into swaps with counterparties as an “ordinary course of business for its own account.” Furthermore, a person may qualify as a major swap participant if it maintains a “substantial position” in outstanding swaps, other than swaps used for “hedging or mitigating commercial risk” or whose positions create substantial exposure to its counterparties or the U.S. financial system. The Dodd-Frank Act subjects swap dealers and major swap participants to substantial supervision and 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements regulation by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), including capital standards, margin requirements, business conduct standards, and recordkeeping and reporting requirements. It also requires most regulated swaps to be cleared through a derivatives clearing organization (“DCO”) registered with the CFTC. By clearing through a DCO, each party to a swap will be required to provide collateral to the DCO to settle, on a daily basis, any credit exposure resulting from fluctuations in market prices. The CFTC also has the authority to impose position limits on companies trading in OTC derivatives markets. Although the Dodd-Frank Act provides a framework for regulating OTC swap transactions, the substance of the Act will be set forth in numerous rules subsequently promulgated by the CFTC and other agencies. Because the CFTC has not yet clearly articulated the scope of key definitions in the Dodd-Frank Act, such as “swap,” “swap dealer” and “major swap participant,” and because the parameters of Dodd-Frank Act requirements are still shifting, it is impossible to know exactly how the Dodd-Frank Act will impact our business. However, the issuance of any rules or regulations relating to the Dodd-Frank Act that subject us to additional business conduct standards, position limits and/or reporting, capital, margin or clearing requirements with respect to our energy commodity swap risk management positions could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business or on the cost of our hedging activities. If we are required to post collateral as a result of new rules, we would have to do so by utilizing cash or letters of credit, to the extent allowed by our credit agreements, which would reduce our liquidity position and increase costs. These changes could materially reduce our hedging opportunities and increase the costs associated with our hedging programs, both of which could negatively affect our cash flow. The unavailability or increased cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies, personnel and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute on a timely basis our development plans and abandonment operations within our budget. Shortages or increases in the cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies or personnel could delay or adversely affect our operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the level of drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea affects the availability of offshore rigs and associated equipment. In periods of increased drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico and the North Sea, we may experience increases in associated costs, including those related to drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and personnel and the services and products of other vendors to the industry. These costs may increase further and necessary equipment and services may not be available to us at economical prices. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recorded losses on abandonment of $4.8 million, $2.9 million and $13.3 million, respectively, primarily as a result of unanticipated increases in service costs in the Gulf of Mexico. We may suffer losses as a result of foreign currency fluctuations. The net assets, net earnings and cash flows from our wholly owned subsidiaries in the U.K. and the Netherlands are based on the U.S. dollar equivalent of such amounts measured in the applicable local currency. These foreign operations have the potential to impact our financial position due to fluctuations in exchange rates. Any increase in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will adversely affect our revenues from our foreign operations when translated into U.S. dollars. Similarly, any decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to the value of the local currency will increase our development costs in our foreign operations, to the extent such costs are payable in foreign currency, when translated into U.S. dollars. We currently have no derivatives or other financial instruments in place to hedge the risk associated with the movement in foreign currency exchange rates. The oil and natural gas business involves many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and can cause substantial losses. Our development activities may be unsuccessful for many reasons, including cost overruns, equipment shortages and mechanical difficulties. Moreover, the successful drilling of an oil or natural gas well does not ensure a profit on investment. A variety of factors, both technical and market-related, can cause a well to become uneconomic or only marginally economic. In addition to their cost, unsuccessful wells can hurt our efforts to replace reserves. The oil and natural gas business involves a variety of operating risks, including: • fires; 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements • explosions; • blow-outs and surface cratering; • uncontrollable flows of natural gas, oil and formation water; • pipe, cement, subsea well or pipeline failures; • casing collapses; • embedded oil field drilling and service tools; • abnormally pressured formations; • environmental accidents or hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil spills, pipeline ruptures and discharges of toxic gases; and • hurricanes and other natural disasters. If we experience any of these problems, it could affect well bores, platforms, gathering systems and processing facilities, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct operations. We could also incur substantial losses in excess of our insurance coverage as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • severe damage to and destruction of property, natural resources and equipment; • pollution and other environmental damage; • clean-up responsibilities; • regulatory investigation and penalties; • suspension of our operations; and • repairs to resume operations. Offshore operations are also subject to a variety of operating risks peculiar to the marine environment, such as capsizing, collisions and damage or loss from hurricanes or other adverse weather conditions. These conditions can cause substantial damage to facilities and interrupt production. As a result, we could incur substantial liabilities that could reduce or eliminate the funds available for development or leasehold acquisitions, or result in loss of equipment and properties. Our Gulf of Mexico properties are subject to rapid production declines. Therefore, we are required to replace our reserves at a faster rate than companies whose onshore reserves have longer production periods. We may not be able to identify or complete the acquisition of properties with sufficient proved reserves to implement our business strategy. Reservoirs in the Gulf of Mexico are typically prolific producers due to their high permeability and efficient completions. Reserves can therefore be produced rapidly. As of December 31, 2010, we project normalized annual decline rates of 22% for oil and 10% for gas in our Gulf of Mexico deepwater fields. While this results in recovery of a relatively higher percentage of reserves from Gulf of Mexico properties during the initial years of production, we must incur significant capital expenditures to replace declining production. We may not be able to identify or complete the acquisition of properties with sufficient reserves or reservoirs to implement our business strategy. As we produce our existing reserves, we must identify, acquire and develop properties through new acquisitions or our level of production and cash flows will be adversely affected. The availability of properties for acquisition depends largely on the divesting practices of other oil and natural gas companies, commodity prices, general economic conditions and other factors that we cannot control or influence. A substantial decrease in the availability of oil and gas properties that meet our criteria in our areas of operation, or a substantial increase in the cost to acquire these properties, would adversely affect our ability to replace our reserves. We may incur substantial impairment write-downs. We account for our oil and gas property costs using the successful efforts accounting method. Under the successful efforts method, lease acquisition costs and intangible drilling and development costs on successful wells and development dry holes are capitalized. Costs of drilling exploratory wells are initially capitalized, but charged to expense if and when a well is determined to be unsuccessful. 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements If management’s estimates of the recoverable reserves on a property are revised downward, if development costs exceed previous estimates or if oil and natural gas prices decline, we may be required to record additional noncash impairment write-downs in the future, which would result in a negative impact to our financial position and earnings. We review our proved oil and gas properties for impairment on a depletable unit basis whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. To determine if a depletable unit is impaired, we compare the carrying value of the depletable unit to the undiscounted future net cash flows by applying management’s estimates of future oil and gas prices to the estimated future production of oil and gas reserves over the economic life of the property and deducting estimated future operating and development costs. Future net cash flows are based upon reservoir engineers’ estimates of proved reserves. In addition, other factors such as probable and possible reserves are taken into consideration when justified by economic conditions and actual or planned drilling or other development activities. For a property determined to be impaired, an impairment loss equal to the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the impaired property will be recognized. Fair value, on a depletable unit basis, is estimated to be the present value of the aforementioned expected future net cash flows. Any impairments of proved properties are aggregated in accumulated depletion, depreciation, amortization and impairment, and reduce our basis in the asset. Each part of this calculation is subject to a large degree of judgment, including the determination of the depletable units’ estimated reserves, future net cash flows and fair value. We recorded impairments during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 totaling $42.4 million, $44.6 million and $124.7 million, respectively, on certain proved properties in the Gulf of Mexico. We also recorded impairments totaling $14.9 million during 2010, on certain proved properties in the North Sea. Impairments of unproved properties were $6.0 million, $1.2 million and $0.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily related to surrendered leases in the Gulf of Mexico. Management’s assumptions in calculating oil and gas reserves or estimating the future cash flows or fair value of our properties are subject to change at any time as economic conditions change. Changes in reserve volumes or commodity price forecasts will directly impact our estimates of future cash flows and property fair values. Adverse changes in these variables could result in the recognition of impairment expense, which would reduce our net income (or increase a net loss) and reduce our basis in the related asset. We may be unable to identify liabilities associated with the properties that we acquire or obtain protection from sellers against them. Acquiring oil and gas properties requires us to assess reservoir and infrastructure characteristics, including recoverable reserves, development and operating costs and potential environmental and other liabilities. Such assessments are inexact and inherently uncertain. In connection with the assessments, we perform a review of the subject properties, but such a review will not reveal all existing or potential problems. In the course of our due diligence, we may not inspect every well, platform or pipeline. We cannot necessarily observe structural and environmental problems, such as pipeline corrosion, when an inspection is made. We may not be able to obtain contractual indemnities from the seller for liabilities created prior to our purchase of the property. We may be required to assume the risk of the physical condition of the properties in addition to the risk that the properties may not perform in accordance with our expectations. Competition in our industry is intense, and we are smaller than some of our competitors in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea. We compete with major and independent oil and natural gas companies for property acquisitions. We also compete for the equipment and labor required to operate and to develop our properties. Some of our competitors have substantially greater financial and other resources than we do. In addition, larger competitors may be able to absorb the burden of any changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations more easily than we can, which would adversely affect our competitive position. These competitors may be able to pay more for oil and natural gas properties and may be able to define, evaluate, bid for and acquire a greater number of properties than we can. Our ability to acquire additional properties and develop new and existing properties in the future will depend on our ability to conduct operations, to evaluate and select suitable properties and to consummate transactions in this highly competitive environment. Members of our management team own a significant amount of common stock, giving them influence in corporate transactions and other matters, and the interests of these individuals could differ from those of other shareholders. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Members of our management team beneficially own approximately 13% of our outstanding shares of common stock at March 2, 2011. As a result, these shareholders are in a position to significantly influence the outcome of matters requiring a shareholder vote, including the election of directors, the adoption of an amendment to our articles of incorporation and the approval of mergers and other significant corporate transactions. Their influence may delay or prevent a change of control and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other shareholders. 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Terrorist attacks or similar hostilities may adversely impact our results of operations. The terrorist attacks that took place in the U.S. on September 11, 2001 were unprecedented events that have created many economic and political uncertainties, some of which may materially adversely impact our business. Uncertainty surrounding military strikes or a sustained military campaign may affect our operations in unpredictable ways, including disruptions of fuel supplies and markets, particularly oil markets, and the possibility that infrastructure facilities, including pipelines, production facilities, processing plants and refineries, could be direct targets of, or indirect casualties of, an act of terror or war. The continuation of these developments may subject our operations to increased risks and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We are subject to complex laws and regulations, including environmental regulations that can adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of doing business. As discussed above, development, production and sale of oil and natural gas in the Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea are subject to extensive laws and regulations, including environmental laws and regulations. We may be required to make large expenditures to comply with environmental and other governmental regulations. Under these laws and regulations, we could be liable for personal injuries, property damage, oil spills, discharge of hazardous materials, remediation and clean-up costs and other environmental damages. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations also may result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties. Moreover, these laws and regulations could change in ways that substantially increase our costs. Accordingly, any of these liabilities, penalties, suspensions, terminations or regulatory changes could materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Legislation and regulations pertaining to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions have the potential to materially adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including costs of compliance and permitting delays. The extent and magnitude of these adverse impacts cannot be reliably or accurately estimated at this time because specific regulatory and legislative requirements have not been finalized and uncertainty exists with respect to the measures being considered, the costs and the time frames for compliance, and our ability to pass compliance costs on to our customers. Certain federal income tax deductions currently available with respect to oil and gas exploration and development may be eliminated as a result of future legislation. Periodically, legislation is introduced to eliminate certain key U.S. federal income tax preferences currently available to oil and gas exploration and production companies. Such changes include, but are not limited to, (i) the repeal of the percentage depletion allowance for oil and gas properties; (ii) the elimination of current deductions for intangible drilling and development costs; (iii) the elimination of the deduction for certain U.S. production activities; and (iv) an extension of the amortization period for certain geological and geophysical expenditures. These changes were included in the White House budget proposals, released on February 26, 2009, February 1, 2010 and February 14, 2011 and may be raised again in the future. Additionally, since the first White House proposal multiple bills have been proposed in Congress to implement many of these changes. It is unclear, however, whether any of these changes will be enacted or how soon they could be effective. Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset our future taxable income may be severely limited under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “I.R.C.”), generally limits the ability of a corporation that undergoes an “ownership change” to utilize its net operating loss carryforwards (“NOLs”) and certain other tax attributes against future taxable income in periods after the ownership change. The amount of taxable income in each tax year after the ownership change that may be offset by pre-change NOLs and certain other pre-change tax attributes is generally equal to the product of (a) the fair market value of the corporation’s outstanding stock immediately prior to the ownership change and (b) the long-term tax exempt 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements rate (i.e., a rate of interest established by the Internal Revenue Service that fluctuates from month to month.) In general, an “ownership change” occurs whenever the percentage of the stock of a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by “5-percent stockholders” (within the meaning of Section 382 of the I.R.C.) increases by more than 50 percentage points over the lowest percentage of the stock of such corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by such “5-percent stockholders” at any time over the preceding three years. Our NOLs and certain other tax attributes are subject to an annual limitation as a result of an ownership change we experienced in November 2007. Additional ownership changes could further reduce our annual NOL limitation if our equity value at the time of the ownership changes is significantly below our equity value as of the date of the November 2007 ownership change. Issuances of our stock, sales or other dispositions of our stock by certain significant stockholders, certain acquisitions of our stock and issuances, sales or other dispositions or acquisitions of interests in certain significant stockholders could trigger additional ownership changes. We have little or no control over any such events. If additional ownership changes occur, any further limitation on our use of NOLs and certain other tax attributes to offset our taxable income could result in a significant increase in our future income tax payments, and could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operation and our ability to make payments on our outstanding indebtedness. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None 