Item 1A. Risk Factors You should consider carefully the following information about the risks described below, together with the other information contained in this annual report on Form 10-K and in our other public filings, in evaluating our business. If any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. Risks Related To Our Business We are dependent on our product discovery and development collaborators for all of our revenue and we are dependent on our current and any future product discovery and development collaborators to develop and commercialize any flavor ingredients we may discover. A key element of our strategy is to commercialize our flavor ingredients through product discovery and development collaborations. To date, substantially all of our revenue has been derived solely from research and development payments, milestone payments and cost reimbursement payments received under our collaborations. Substantially all of our revenue in the foreseeable future will result from these types of payments from these collaborations until such time, if ever, that we earn material royalties on future sales of consumer products incorporating our flavor ingredients. Our agreement, as amended, with Campbell provides for research and development funding until March 2009 and gives Campbell the right to terminate the agreement earlier without cause, provided that it pay a specified termination fee if it terminates the agreement prior to March 28, 2009. Our agreement with Coca-Cola provides for research and development funding until April 2010 and gives Coca-Cola the right to conclude the collaborative program earlier for any reason upon payment to us of an early conclusion fee. Our initial agreement with Nestlé (as amended in April 2005 and April 2008) provides for research and development funding through April 2010 and gives Nestlé the right to terminate the agreement earlier without cause on July 18, 2009, October 18, 2009 and January 18, 2010 upon 30 days’ written notice. Our most recent agreement with Nestlé regarding the discovery and commercialization of novel flavor ingredients in the coffee and coffee whitener fields provides for research and development funding through July 2011 and gives Nestlé the right to terminate the agreement earlier without cause, provided that it pay additional specified research funding if it terminates the agreement prior to July 26, 2011. Our agreement with Cadbury (as amended in July 2008) provides for research and development funding through July 2009 and gives Cadbury the right to terminate the agreement earlier without cause upon 90 days’ written notice. Our initial agreement with Ajinomoto provides for research and development funding through March 2009 and gives Ajinomoto the right to terminate the agreement without cause provided that it pay additional specified research funding if it terminates the agreement prior to March 23, 2009. Our most recent agreement with Ajinomoto provides for research and development funding through October 2009 and gives Ajinomoto the right to terminate the agreement without cause provided that it pay additional specified research funding if it terminates the agreement prior to October 5, 2009. Our agreement with Solae provides for research and development funding through April 2010, and gives Solae the right to terminate the agreement without cause upon 90 days’ prior notice provided it pay additional specified research funding if it terminates the agreement prior to April 23, 2010. Our initial agreement with Firmenich permits Firmenich to terminate the agreement without cause upon 90 days written notice on any anniversary of the effective date of the agreement provided that it pay additional specified research funding if it terminates prior to December 14, 2010. Our most recent agreement with Firmenich permits Firmenich to terminate the agreement without cause upon 90 days written notice on any anniversary of the effective date. If any or all of our material agreements with our collaborators expire or are terminated, our revenue could significantly decline and if all of our agreements expire or are terminated, our revenue would be substantially eliminated, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our collaborators may not renew their agreements with us or, if they do, they may not be on terms that are as favorable to us as our current agreements. For example, our discovery and development collaboration with Kraft Foods Global, Inc. concluded on December 9, 2007, one year earlier than the scheduled term of the agreement. 26 Table of Contents Our current collaboration agreements provide that we will receive royalties of up to 4% on our collaborators’ sales of retail and food service products, and up to 5% on our collaborators’ sales of ingredient supplies containing our flavor ingredients. The actual royalties payable vary by agreement and depend on a number of factors including, for example, the product field, cost of goods savings, degree of flavor enhancement and sales volume of collaborator products incorporating our flavor ingredients. It is possible that our collaborators will not incorporate our flavor ingredients into any or all of their products within their exclusive or co-exclusive product fields on a timely basis or at all. We are dependent on our current and any other possible future collaborators to commercialize any flavor ingredients that we successfully develop and to provide the sales, marketing and distribution capabilities required for the success of our business. We have limited or no control over the amount and timing of resources that our current or any future collaborators may devote to our programs or potential products. Our collaborators may decide not to devote the necessary resources to the commercialization of our flavor ingredients, or may pursue a competitor’s product if our flavor ingredients do not have the characteristics desired by the collaborator. These characteristics include, among other things, enhancement properties, temperature stability, solubility, taste, cost and an adequate safety profile. If these collaborators fail to conduct their commercialization, sales and marketing or distribution activities successfully and in a timely manner, we will earn little or no royalty revenues from our flavor ingredients and we will not be able to achieve our objectives or build a sustainable or profitable business. Our present and any future product discovery and development collaboration opportunities could be harmed if: · our existing or any future collaborators terminate their collaboration agreements with us prior to the expiration of the agreements; · we do not achieve our research and development objectives under our collaboration agreements prior to the termination of the collaboration periods; · we disagree with our collaborators as to the parties’ respective licensing rights to our flavor ingredients, methods or other intellectual property we develop; · we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous collaborations; · potential collaborators fail to spend their resources on research and development or commercialization of our flavor ingredients due to general market conditions or for any other reason; or · consolidation in our target markets limits the number of potential collaborators. Our business and operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. Our business depends on our ability to maintain and enter into new collaborative research, development and commercialization agreements with leading food, beverage and flavor companies. Our arrangements typically require our collaborators to make a significant commitment of capital and other resources. In most instances these investments are discretionary on the part of our collaborators. The recent deterioration of economic conditions may reduce the amount of discretionary investment that our current and prospective collaborators may be willing to make in our programs. In some instances the result may be that companies elect to defer or delay entering into a collaborative agreement with us, or existing collaborators may terminate or not renew an existing program when it expires. Therefore, weak economic conditions, or a reduction in research and development funding, even if economic conditions improve, would likely adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition in a number of ways, including longer business development cycles, unfavorable financial or other commercial terms, and longer development timelines. 27 Table of Contents We may not be able to negotiate additional collaboration agreements having terms satisfactory to us or at all. We may not be able to enter into additional product discovery and development collaborations due to the exclusive nature of our current product discovery and development collaborations. Each of our current collaboration agreements provides that we will conduct research and development on flavor ingredients for use within one or more defined packaged food, beverage and ingredient product fields on an exclusive or co-exclusive basis for the respective collaborator during the collaborative period specified in the agreement. In the case of exclusive agreements, or co-exclusive agreements where all fields and geographies are granted, we will not be able to enter into additional collaborations with any other food, beverage and ingredient company covering the same product field during the applicable collaborative period. In addition, our collaborators’ competitors may not wish to do business with us at all due to our relationship with our collaborators. If we are unable to enter into additional product discovery and development collaborations, our ability to sustain or expand our business will be significantly diminished. We may not be successful in developing flavor ingredients useful for formulation into products. In order to develop flavor ingredients, we must have first identified the correct human taste receptor for the taste of interest and develop high-throughput assays to test for compounds that affect the taste of interest. If we are not able to identify the correct human taste receptor for the taste of interest, our assays may not successfully identify compounds that affect the taste of interest. For example, in the event that SNMX-29 is not the primary human salt-taste receptor, we may not be able to develop an effective salt taste enhancer. Similarly, we may not succeed in identifying the specific receptors needed to reduce or block bitter taste in soy-based products under our collaboration with Solae. In addition, we may not be successful in the development of a high-throughput assay to each human taste receptor of interest to us. Even if we succeed in the identification of a human taste receptor of interest to us and develop an appropriate high-throughput assay, we may not succeed in developing flavor ingredients with the appropriate attributes required for use in successful commercial products. Successful flavor ingredients require, among other things, appropriate biological activity, including the correct taste property for the product application, an acceptable safety profile, including lack of toxicity or allergenicity, and appropriate physical or chemical properties, including relative levels of solubility, stability, volatility and resistance to heat. Our development programs are intended to evaluate these characteristics of novel flavor ingredients. Therefore, until we complete our development of a given novel flavor ingredient we will not be able to determine whether that flavor ingredient will possess all of the appropriate attributes necessary for commercialization. Successful flavor ingredients must also be cost-efficient for our collaborators, which includes, among other things, the cost to manufacture a flavor ingredient at commercial scale as well as other costs associated with the reformulation of products that include our flavor ingredients. We have only limited experience in evaluating these costs and we may not be able to accurately predict whether our flavor ingredients will be cost-efficient for our current collaborators or potential future collaborators. We may not be able to develop flavor ingredients that meet all of these criteria and possess the appropriate attributes necessary for commercialization. It is possible that flavor ingredients that initially appear to meet these criteria are later found to fail these criteria or other criteria that we later deem important. In that case, we may not commercialize such an ingredient when anticipated, or at all, or the potential commercial utility for such an ingredient may be more limited than we expected. If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain and maintain the GRAS determination or other regulatory approval required before certain of our flavor ingredients can be incorporated into products that are sold, we would be unable to commercialize our flavor ingredients and our business would be adversely affected. In March 2005, we obtained a FEMA GRAS determination for four of our savory flavor ingredients. In November 2008, we obtained a FEMA GRAS determination for one of our sucralose flavor ingredients. Apart from these flavor ingredients, we do not have GRAS determination or other regulatory approval for any other flavor ingredient at this time. In the United States, the development, sale and incorporation of our flavor ingredients into products are subject to regulation by the FDA and in some instances other government bodies. Obtaining and maintaining a GRAS determination or other regulatory approval can be costly and take many years. 28 Table of Contents Depending on the amount or intended use of a particular flavor ingredient added to a product and the number of product categories in which the flavor ingredient will be incorporated, specific safety assessment protocols and regulatory processes must be satisfied before we or our collaborators can commercially market and sell products containing any flavor ingredients that we may discover. A key element of our strategy is to develop flavor ingredients that may be subject to review under the FEMA GRAS process. In our experiences with the savory and sucralose programs, safety studies, preparation and FEMA GRAS review has ranged from 12 to 16 months and cost less than $1 million. This experience may not be representative of the timing and cost for current and future programs. This approach is less expensive than the alternative of filing a food additive petition with the FDA, approval of which can take up to four years. The FEMA GRAS process may take longer than 12 to 16 months and cost more than $1 million depending on the properties of the flavor ingredient, and if we elect to perform additional safety studies or if additional safety studies are requested by the FEMA Expert Panel or are necessary to explain unexpected safety study findings. There is a risk that one or more of our product candidates for which we seek FEMA GRAS determination may not qualify for a FEMA GRAS determination. This may occur for a variety of reasons, including the flavor ingredient’s intended use, the amount of the flavor ingredient intended to be added to packaged foods and beverages, the number of product categories in which the flavor ingredient will be incorporated, whether the flavor ingredient imparts sweetness, the safety profile of the flavor ingredient and the FEMA Expert Panel’s interpretation of the safety data. Even if we obtain a GRAS determination with respect to a flavor ingredient, the FDA has the ability to challenge such determination, which could materially adversely affect our ability to market products on schedule or at all. In the event that a particular flavor ingredient does not qualify for FEMA GRAS determination, we could be required to pursue a lengthy FDA approval process or dedicate our development efforts to alternative ingredients, which would further delay commercialization. In addition, laws, regulations or FDA practice governing the regulatory approval process, the availability of the GRAS determination process or the manufacture or labeling of such products, may change in a manner that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products on schedule or at all. Sales of our flavor ingredients outside of the United States will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements, which are subject to change and inherent uncertainty. In most cases, whether or not a GRAS determination has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. A GRAS determination in the United States or in any other jurisdiction does not ensure approval in other jurisdictions because the requirements from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may vary widely and may change over time. Because of the inherent uncertainty associated with the regulatory approval process outside the United States, predicting the outcome or timing of review of any of our submissions to foreign regulatory authorities, present or in the future, is difficult. Accordingly, our estimates and forecasts for those submissions and potential approvals may not be accurate. The process of obtaining foreign approvals could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and require additional safety studies and additional expenses. If we experience delays or if we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain required approvals, our ability to generate revenue will be diminished. We and our collaborators may not be successful in overcoming these regulatory hurdles, which could result in product launch delays, unanticipated expenses, termination of collaborations and flavor ingredients not being approved for incorporation into consumer products. In addition, even after regulatory approval of our ingredients, we may become aware of new information that suggests our ingredients are unsuitable for consumer use, in which case our regulatory approvals may be revoked or we may elect to voluntarily cease the commercialization of those ingredients. These consequences would have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. 29 Table of Contents If we or our collaborators are unable to obtain and maintain the regulatory approval required before any high potency sweeteners can be incorporated into products that are sold, we would be unable to commercialize our high potency sweeteners and our business would be adversely affected. In the United States, the development, sale and incorporation of our high potency sweeteners into products are subject to regulation by the FDA and in some instances other government bodies. Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval can be costly and take many years. Depending on the amount or intended use of a particular high potency sweetener added to a product and the number of product categories in which the high potency sweetener will be incorporated, specific safety assessment protocols and regulatory processes must be satisfied before we or our collaborators can commercially market and sell products containing any high potency sweeteners that we may discover. An element of our strategy is to develop high potency sweeteners that may be subject to review under the Food Additive Petition process, which encompasses filing a food additive petition with the FDA, approval of which can take up to four years or more and may cost up to $7 million or more. Government resource constraints may also slow the review and approval process. In addition, laws, regulations or FDA practice governing the regulatory approval process, the availability of the Food Additive Petition process or the manufacture or labeling of such products, may change in a manner that could adversely affect our ability to commercialize products on schedule or at all. Sales of our high potency sweeteners outside of the United States will be subject to foreign regulatory requirements. In most cases, whether or not FDA approval has been obtained, approval of a product by the comparable regulatory authorities of foreign countries must still be obtained prior to manufacturing or marketing the product in those countries. FDA approval in the United States or regulatory approval in any other jurisdiction does not ensure similar approval in other jurisdictions because the requirements from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may vary widely. Obtaining foreign approvals could result in significant delays, difficulties and costs for us and require additional safety studies and additional expenses. If we fail to comply with these regulatory requirements or to obtain and maintain required approvals, our ability to generate revenue will be diminished. We and our collaborators may not be successful in overcoming these regulatory hurdles, which could result in product launch delays, unanticipated expenses, termination of collaborations and high potency sweeteners not being approved for incorporation into consumer products. These consequences would have a material adverse effect on our business financial condition and results of operations. Even if we or our collaborators receive regulatory approval and incorporate our flavor ingredients into products, those products may never be commercially successful. Even if we discover and develop flavor ingredients that obtain the necessary GRAS determination or other regulatory approval, our success depends to a significant degree upon the commercial success of packaged food, beverage and ingredient products incorporating those flavor ingredients. If these products fail to achieve or subsequently maintain market acceptance or commercial viability, our business would be significantly harmed because our royalty revenue is dependent upon consumer sales of these products. In addition, we could be unable to maintain our existing collaborations or attract new product discovery and development collaborators. Many factors may affect the market acceptance and commercial success of any potential products incorporating flavor ingredients that we may discover, including: · health concerns, whether actual or perceived, or unfavorable publicity regarding our flavor ingredients or those of our competitors; · the timing of market entry as compared to competitive products; · the rate of adoption of products by our collaborators and other companies in the flavor industry; and · any product labeling that may be required by the FDA or other United States or foreign regulatory agencies for products incorporating our flavor ingredients. 30 Table of Contents We have a history of operating losses and we may not achieve or maintain profitability. We have not been profitable and have generated substantial operating losses since we were incorporated in September 1998. We incurred net losses of approximately $26.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2008, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $176.0 million. We expect to incur additional losses for at least the next two years. The extent of our future losses will depend, in part, on the rate of increase in our operating expenses and the rate of growth, if any, in our revenue from our existing and any future product discovery and development collaborations as well as from other sources that may become available to us in the future and on the level of our expenses. To date, substantially all of our revenue has come from research and development funding, upfront fees, cost reimbursement and milestone payments under our product discovery and development collaborations. In order for us to generate further royalty revenue and become profitable, we must substantially retain our existing product discovery and development collaborations and our collaborators must further commercialize products incorporating one or more of our flavor ingredients, from which we can derive additional royalty revenues. Our ability to generate royalty revenue is uncertain and will depend upon our ability to meet particular research, development and commercialization objectives. We expect that our results of operations will fluctuate from period to period, and this fluctuation could cause our stock price to decline. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future based upon a number of factors, many of which we have little or no control over. We operate in a highly dynamic industry and future results could be subject to significant fluctuations. These fluctuations could cause us to fail to meet or exceed our published guidance or financial expectations of securities analysts or investors, which could cause our stock price to decline rapidly and significantly. Revenue and expenses in future periods may be greater or less than revenue and expenses in the immediately preceding period or in the comparable period of the prior year. Therefore, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily a good indication of our future performance. Some of the factors that could cause our operating results to fluctuate include: · termination of any of our product discovery and development collaboration agreements; · our ability to discover and develop flavor ingredients or the ability of our product discovery and development collaborators to incorporate them into packaged food, beverage and ingredient products; · our receipt of milestone payments in any particular period; · the ability and willingness of collaborators to commercialize products incorporating our flavor ingredients on expected timelines, or at all; · our ability to enter into new product discovery and development collaborations and technology collaborations or to extend the terms of our existing collaboration agreements and our payment obligations, expected revenue and other terms of any other agreements of this type; · our ability, or our collaborators’ ability, to successfully satisfy all pertinent regulatory requirements; · the demand for our collaborators’ products containing our flavor ingredients; and · general and industry specific economic conditions, including the current economic and credit crisis, which may affect our collaborators’ research and development expenditures and commercialization efforts. We may need to obtain additional capital to fund our operations. If we are unable to successfully commercialize our flavor ingredients, maintain our existing product discovery and development collaborations or enter into new collaborations, we will likely need to obtain additional capital or change our strategy to continue our operations. In addition, our business and operations may change in a manner that would consume available resources at a greater rate than anticipated. In such event, we may need to raise substantial additional capital to, among other things: · fund new research, discovery or development programs; · advance additional product candidates into and through the safety evaluation and regulatory approval process; and · acquire rights to products or product candidates, technologies or businesses. 31 Table of Contents If we require additional capital to continue our operations, we cannot assure you that additional financing will be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In particular, although we have previously been successful in obtaining financing through offerings of our equity securities, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future, especially given the current economic and credit crisis. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our operations, take advantage of opportunities, identify and develop flavor ingredients, develop technologies or otherwise respond to competitive pressures could be significantly limited. In addition, if financing is not available, we may need to alter our strategy or cease operations. In addition, issuances of debt or additional equity could impact the rights of the holders of our common stock, may dilute our stockholders’ ownership and may impose restrictions on our operations. These restrictions could include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain qualified personnel, it could adversely affect our business. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our executive officers, management and scientific staff. If we lose the services of one or more of these people and, in particular, Kent Snyder, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Mark Zoller, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President of Discovery & Development and Chief Scientific Officer, the relationships we have with our collaborators would likely be negatively impacted and we may be delayed or unable to develop new product candidates, commercialize our existing product candidates or achieve our other business objectives, any of which could cause our stock price to decline. Dr. Zoller is currently on a medical leave of absence until early June 2009, although it is possible that his leave could be extended. We have entered into employment letter agreements with the following executive officers: Kent Snyder, Mark Zoller, Ph.D., John Poyhonen, our Senior Vice President, Chief Financial and Business Officer, Sharon Wicker, our Senior Vice President and Chief Strategy Officer and David Berger, our Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. All of our employees are at-will employees, which means that either we or the employee may terminate their employment at any time. We currently have no key person insurance. In addition, our discovery and development programs depend on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled scientists, including molecular biologists, biochemists, chemists and engineers. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified employees in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among technology-based businesses, particularly in the San Diego area. We also face competition from universities and public and private research institutions in recruiting and retaining highly qualified scientific and management personnel. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will adversely affect our ability to meet the demands of our current or any future product discovery and development collaborators in a timely fashion or to support our independent discovery and development programs. We may encounter difficulties managing our growth, which could adversely affect our business. Our strategy includes entering into and working on simultaneous flavor ingredient discovery and development programs across multiple markets. We increased the number of our full-time employees from seven on December 31, 1999 to 129 on December 31, 2008 and we may continue to grow to meet our strategic objectives. If our growth continues, it will continue to place a strain on us, our management and our resources. Our ability to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires us to continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may not be able to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, we may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. If we fail to improve our operational, financial and management information systems, or fail to effectively monitor or manage our new and future employees or our growth, our business would suffer significantly. In addition, no assurance can be made that we will be able to maintain adequate facilities to house our staff, conduct our research or achieve our business objectives. 32 Table of Contents We will rely on third parties to manufacture our flavor ingredients on a commercial scale. We do not have experience in manufacturing, nor do we have the resources or facilities to manufacture, flavor ingredients on a commercial scale. Therefore, the commercialization of our flavor ingredients will depend in part on our or our collaborators’ ability to contract with third-party manufacturers of our flavor ingredients on a large scale, at a competitive cost, with the specified quality and in accordance with relevant food, beverage and ingredient regulatory requirements. Any such third-party manufacturers may encounter manufacturing difficulties at any time that could result in delays in the commercialization of potential flavor ingredients. Our inability to find capable third-party manufacturers or to enter into agreements on acceptable terms with third-party manufacturers could delay commercialization of any products we may develop and may harm our relationships with our existing and any future product discovery and development collaborators and our customers. Moreover, if we are required to change from one third-party manufacturer to another for any reason, the commercialization of our products may be delayed further. In addition, if third-party manufacturers fail to comply with the FDA’s good manufacturing practice regulations or similar regulations in other countries, then we may be subject to adverse regulatory action including product recalls, warning letters and withdrawal of our products, or our collaborators’ or customers’ products, from the market. Further, because our flavor ingredients are regulated as food products under the FD&C Act, we and the third parties with which we collaborate or contract to manufacture, process, pack, import or otherwise handle our products or our product ingredients, may be required to comply with certain registration, prior notice submission, recordkeeping and other regulatory requirements. Failure of any party in the chain of distribution to comply with any applicable requirements under the FD&C Act or the FDA’s implementing regulations, or similar regulations in other countries, may adversely affect the manufacture and/or distribution of our products in commerce. If we acquire products, technologies or other businesses, we will incur a variety of costs, may have integration difficulties and may experience numerous other risks that could adversely affect our business. If appropriate opportunities become available, we may consider acquiring businesses, technologies or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. We currently have no commitments or agreements with respect to, and are not actively seeking, any material acquisitions. We have limited experience in identifying acquisition targets, successfully acquiring them and integrating them into our current infrastructure. We may not be able to successfully integrate any businesses, products, technologies or personnel that we might acquire in the future without a significant expenditure of operating, financial and management resources, if at all. In addition, future acquisitions might be funded by issuances of additional debt or equity, which could impact your rights as a holder of our common stock and may dilute your ownership percentage. Any of the foregoing could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related To Our Industry Our ability to compete in the flavor ingredient market may decline if we do not adequately protect our proprietary technologies. Our success depends in part on our ability to obtain and maintain intellectual property that protects our technologies and flavor ingredients. Patent positions may be highly uncertain and may involve complex legal and factual questions, including the ability to establish patentability of sequences relating to taste receptors, proteins, chemical synthesis techniques, compounds and methods for using them to modulate taste for which we seek patent protection. No consistent standard regarding the allowability or enforceability of claims in many of our pending patent applications has emerged to date. As a result, we 33 Table of Contents cannot predict the breadth of claims that will ultimately be allowed in our patent applications, if any, including those we have in-licensed or the extent to which we may enforce these claims against our competitors. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is therefore highly uncertain and we cannot assure you that: · we were the first to file patent applications or to invent the subject matter claimed in patent applications relating to the technologies upon which we rely; · others will not independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; · others did not publicly disclose our claimed technology before we conceived the subject matter included in any of our patent applications; · any of our patent applications will result in issued patents; · any of our patent applications will not result in interferences or disputes with third parties regarding priority of invention; · any patents that have issued or may be issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors will provide a basis for commercially viable products or will provide us with any competitive advantages or will not be challenged by third parties; · we will develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable; · the patents of others will not have an adverse effect on our ability to do business; or · new proprietary technologies from third parties, including existing licensors, will be available for licensing to us on reasonable commercial terms, if at all. In addition, patent law outside the United States is uncertain and in many countries intellectual property laws are undergoing review and revision. The laws of some countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as domestic laws. It may be necessary or useful for us to participate in opposition proceedings to determine the validity of our competitors’ patents, litigation to enforce our or our licensed intellectual property against others or to defend the validity of any of our or our licensors’ future patents, which could result in substantial costs and would divert our efforts and attention from other aspects of our business. We cannot be certain of the outcome of any such proceedings or litigation. Technologies licensed to us by others, or in-licensed technologies, are important to our business. In particular, we depend on high-throughput screening technologies that we licensed from Aurora Biosciences, technology related to certain taste receptor sequences that we license from the University of California and others and technology related to compound libraries that we license from third parties. In addition, we may in the future acquire rights to additional technologies by licensing such rights from existing licensors or from third parties. Such in-licenses may be costly. Also, we generally do not control the patent prosecution, maintenance or enforcement of in-licensed technologies. Accordingly, we are unable to exercise the same degree of control over this intellectual property as we do over our internally developed technologies. Moreover, some of our academic institution licensors, collaborators and scientific advisors have rights to publish data and information to which we have rights. If we cannot maintain the confidentiality of our technologies and other confidential information in connection with our collaborations, our ability to protect our proprietary information or obtain patent protection in the future may be impaired, which could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of the patent applications we and our licensors have filed have not yet been substantively examined and may not result in patents being issued. Many of the patent applications filed by us and our licensors were filed recently with the United States Patent and Trademark Office and most have not been substantively examined and may not result in patents being issued. Some of these patent applications claim sequences that were identified from different publicly available sequence information sources such as the High-Throughput Genomic Sequences division of GenBank. It is difficult to predict whether any of our or our licensors’ applications will ultimately be found to be patentable or, if so, to predict the scope of any allowed claims. In addition, the disclosure in our or our licensors’ patent applications, particularly in respect of the utility of our claimed inventions, may not be 34 Table of Contents sufficient to meet the statutory requirements for patentability in all cases. Furthermore, recent changes in rules promulgated by the United States Patent and Trademark Office may adversely affect the patentability of inventions claimed in our and our licensors’ patent applications. As a result, it is difficult to predict whether any of our or our licensors’ applications will be allowed, or, if so, to predict the scope of any allowed claims or the enforceability of the patents. Even if enforceable, others may be able to design around any patents or develop similar technologies that are not within the scope of such patents. Our and our licensors’ patent applications may not issue as patents that will provide us with any protection or competitive advantage. Disputes concerning the infringement or misappropriation of our proprietary rights or the proprietary rights of others could be time consuming and extremely costly and could delay our research and development efforts. Our commercial success, if any, will be significantly harmed if we infringe the patent rights of third parties or if we breach any license or other agreements that we have entered into with regard to our technology or business. Our success will also depend, in part, on our ability to prevent others from infringing our patent rights. We are aware of other companies and academic institutions that have been performing research in the areas of taste modulation and flavor ingredients. In particular, other companies, academic institutions and inventor applicants have announced that they have conducted taste-receptor or ion channel research and have published data on taste receptor sequence information and taste receptors or filed patent applications or obtained patent protection on taste modulation or taste receptors and their uses, including Ajinomoto, California Institute of Technology, Cargill, Dendreon, Duke University, Firmenich, the German Institute of Human Nutrition, Givaudan SA, International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., Johannes Gutenberg University, Monell Chemical Senses Corp., Mount Sinai School of Medicine, Nestlé, Novartis, NutraSweet, Nutrinova GMBH, Pfizer, Inc., Redpoint Bio, Sloan Kettering, Symrise, Tate & Lyle, The Scripps Research Institute, Unilever, the University of California, the University of Wisconsin, Virginia Commonwealth University and Wissenbach. To the extent any of these companies, academic institutions or inventor applicants currently have, or obtain in the future, broad patent claims, such patents could block our ability to use various aspects of our discovery and development process and might prevent us from developing or commercializing newly discovered flavor ingredients or otherwise conducting our business. The University of California, for example, claims certain patent rights relating to the coexpression of T1R receptors that may not have been licensed to us. While our technology is focused on the use of human T1R receptors, we cannot assure you that it does not infringe such patent rights. In such event, if we are not able to amend our license with the University of California to include such patent rights and our technology is found to interfere with or infringe such patent rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer a significant adverse effect. In addition, it is possible that some of the flavor ingredients that are discovered using our technology may not be patentable or may be covered by intellectual property of third parties. We are not currently a party to any litigation, interference, opposition, protest, reexamination, reissue or any other potentially adverse governmental, ex parte or inter-party proceeding with regard to our patent or trademark positions. However, the life sciences and other technology industries are characterized by extensive litigation regarding patents and other intellectual property rights. Many life sciences and other technology companies have employed intellectual property litigation as a way to gain a competitive advantage. We may become involved in litigation, interference proceedings, oppositions, reexamination, protest or other potentially adverse intellectual property proceedings as a result of alleged infringement by us of the rights of others or as a result of priority of invention disputes with third parties. Similarly, we may initiate proceedings to enforce our patent rights and prevent others from infringing our or our licensed intellectual property rights. In any of these circumstances, we might have to spend significant amounts of money, time and effort defending our position and we may not be successful. In addition, any claims relating to the infringement of third-party proprietary rights or proprietary determinations, even if not meritorious, could result in costly litigation, lengthy governmental proceedings, divert management’s attention and resources, or require us to enter into royalty or license agreements that are not advantageous to us. 35 Table of Contents Should any person have filed patent applications or obtained patents that claim inventions also claimed by us, we may have to participate in an interference proceeding declared by the relevant patent regulatory agency to determine priority of invention and, thus, the right to a patent for these inventions in the United States. Such a proceeding could result in substantial cost to us even if the outcome is favorable. Even if successful on priority grounds, an interference action may result in loss of claims based on patentability grounds raised in the interference action. Litigation, interference proceedings or other proceedings could divert management’s time and efforts. Even unsuccessful claims could result in significant legal fees and other expenses, diversion of management’s time and disruption in our business. Uncertainties resulting from initiation and continuation of any patent proceeding or related litigation could harm our ability to compete and could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. An adverse ruling arising out of any intellectual property dispute, including an adverse decision as to the priority of our inventions, could undercut or invalidate our intellectual property position. An adverse ruling could also subject us to significant liability for damages, including possible treble damages, prevent us from using technologies or developing products, or require us to negotiate licenses to disputed rights from third parties. Although patent and intellectual property disputes in the technology area are often settled through licensing or similar arrangements, costs associated with these arrangements may be substantial and could include license fees and ongoing royalties. Furthermore, necessary licenses may not be available to us on satisfactory terms, if at all. Failure to obtain a license in such a case could have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to protect our trade secrets and other proprietary information, we could lose any competitive advantage we may have, which could adversely affect our business. We rely in part on trade secret protection for our confidential and proprietary information, know how and processes. Our policy is to execute proprietary information and invention agreements with our employees and consultants upon the commencement of an employment or consulting relationship. These agreements generally require that all confidential information developed by the individual or made known to the individual by us during the course of the individual’s relationship with us be kept confidential and not be disclosed to third parties. These agreements also generally provide that inventions conceived by the individual in the course of their employment shall be our exclusive property. Similarly, in the course of our collaborations or in the negotiation of potential collaborations we often disclose confidential and proprietary information under written agreements that obligate those third parties to keep our information confidential and to use our confidential information only for the purposes that we specify. There can be no assurance that we will be able to effectively enforce these agreements or that proprietary information is our exclusive property. There can be no assurance that the subject proprietary information will not be disclosed, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information and techniques or otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or that we can meaningfully protect our trade secrets. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Many potential competitors, including those who have greater resources and experience than we do, may develop products or technologies that make ours obsolete or noncompetitive. The life sciences and other technology industries are characterized by rapid technological change, and the area of sensory or taste receptor research is a rapidly evolving field. Our future success will depend on our ability to maintain a competitive position with respect to technological advances. Technological developments by others may result in our flavor ingredients and technologies becoming obsolete. In particular, we face substantial competition from companies pursuing the commercialization of products and services relevant to taste using more traditional methods for the discovery of flavor ingredients, or for the reduction of salt, sugar, MSG or bitter taste. These competitors include leading flavor companies, such as Firmenich, Givaudan SA, International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., Symrise and 36 Table of Contents Takasago. These companies provide flavors and other products, such as oils, extracts and distillates, to consumer products companies for use in a wide variety of products including foods, beverages, confectionaries, dairy products and pharmaceuticals. Competitors currently developing or marketing high potency sweeteners include Ajinomoto, BRAIN AG (or Biotechnology Research and Information Network AG), Cargill, Natur Research Ingredients, Nutrasweet, Nutrinova GMBH, Symrise and Tate & Lyle. Competitors currently developing or marketing menthol or cooling agents include Jindal Drugs, Mentha & Allied, Sharp Menthol, Symrise, Takasago and Millenium Specialty Chemicals. We currently compete and will continue to compete in the future with these companies in collaborating with and selling flavor products and technologies to manufacturers of packaged food, beverage and ingredient products. Many of these companies have substantially greater capital resources, research and development resources and experience, manufacturing capabilities, regulatory expertise, sales and marketing resources, established relationships with consumer products companies and production facilities. Savory flavor enhancers, particularly IMP, are commercially available, and we will compete with the companies that produce these flavors. IMP is widely available and is a generally accepted food additive by the packaged food, beverage and ingredient industries. As a result, our existing and future collaborators may choose to incorporate IMP or similar savory flavor enhancers into their packaged food, beverage and ingredient products instead of our savory flavor ingredients. We may compete with bitter masking or bitter blocking compounds, such as AMP. We may also compete with known methods for reducing sodium, such as the use of potassium chloride in combination with flavors and masking agents. In addition, we may compete with existing cooling agents, such as menthol and WS-3, that are currently in use. We may in the future face competition from life sciences and other technology companies and other commercial enterprises. These entities engage as we do in biotechnology, biology or chemistry research and could apply this technology to the discovery and development of flavor ingredients. We are aware of one other company, Redpoint Bio, that is involved in research on sweetness potentiators, salt substitutes and bitter blockers, specifically AMP. We cannot guarantee that products developed as a result of our competitors’ existing or future collaborations will not compete with our flavor ingredients. Universities and public and private research institutions are also potential competitors. While these organizations primarily have educational objectives, they may develop proprietary technologies related to the sense of taste or secure patent protection that we may need for the development of our technologies and products. We may attempt to license these proprietary technologies, but these licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. Our competitors, either alone or with their collaborative partners, may succeed in developing technologies or discovering flavor ingredients that are more effective, safer, more affordable or more easily commercialized than ours, and our competitors may obtain intellectual property protection or commercialize products sooner than we do. Developments by others may render our product candidates or our technologies obsolete. In addition, our current product discovery and development collaborators are not prohibited from entering into research and development collaboration agreements with third parties in any product field. Our failure to compete effectively would have a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be sued for product liability and exposed to other product safety-related risks, which could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. Because our business strategy involves the development and sale by our collaborators of commercial products incorporating our flavor ingredients, we may be sued for product liability. Products incorporating our flavor ingredients are also subject to risks such as product contamination or spoilage, product tampering or other adulteration. From time to time we receive reports of observed effects after individuals taste solutions or products that include novel flavor ingredients that we are testing or developing, including reports such as irritation of the mouth, tingling of the tongue, lips or gums, and modulation or loss of taste sensation. Our practice is to track reports of any observed effects and, in particular, to evaluate whether any adverse effect may be related to our novel flavor ingredient or whether another cause is determinable. In some instances, these effects may be observed only at higher levels of use or exposure, in which case we 37 Table of Contents may elect to proceed with development, and subsequent commercialization, of a novel flavor ingredient at use levels that we believe are appropriate for only a subset of all potential applications. Nevertheless, we may be held liable if any flavor ingredient we test, develop or commercialize, or any product our collaborators test, develop or commercialize that incorporates any of our flavor ingredients, causes injury or illness or is found otherwise unsuitable during product testing, manufacturing, marketing, sale or consumer use. In addition, the safety studies we must perform and the regulatory approvals we must obtain prior to incorporating our flavor ingredients into a commercial product will not protect us from any such liability. Any alleged illness or injury associated with any of our flavor ingredients, product defect, product liability judgment or product recall may negatively impact our financial results depending on the reaction of our collaborators, scope, competitive reaction and consumer attitudes. Even if such an allegation or product liability claim lacks merit, cannot be substantiated, is unsuccessful or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding any assertion that our flavor ingredients or products that incorporate our flavor ingredients caused illness, injury or death could adversely affect our reputation with existing and potential collaborators and licensees and our corporate image and could cause a decline in our stock price. Our product liability insurance may not fully cover our potential liabilities associated with the sale of commercial products incorporating any of our flavor ingredients. Inability to obtain sufficient insurance coverage to protect against potential product liability claims could prevent or inhibit the commercialization of products developed by us or our product discovery and development collaborators. We may be obligated to indemnify our product discovery and development collaborators for product liability or other losses they incur as a result of our flavor ingredients. Any indemnification we receive from such collaborators for product liability that does not arise from our flavor ingredients may not be sufficient to satisfy our liability to injured parties. If we are sued for any injury caused by our flavor ingredients or products incorporating our flavor ingredients, our liability could exceed our total assets. We use hazardous materials. Any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming and costly. Our discovery and development process requires our employees to routinely handle hazardous chemical, radioactive and biological materials. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials. As a result of the increase in size of our operations, we are now classified as a large quantity generator of hazardous waste. This classification may result in increased scrutiny of our operations by the Environmental Protection Agency. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental regulations may impair our discovery and development efforts. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or discharge and any resultant injury from these materials. Our insurance policies have limited coverage for damages or cleanup costs related to hazardous waste disposal or contamination. We may be forced to curtail operations or be sued for any injury or contamination that results from our use or the use by others of these materials, and our liability may exceed our total assets. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related To Our Common Stock The price of our common stock is volatile. The market prices for securities of biotechnology companies historically have been highly volatile, and the market has from time to time experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that are unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. Since our initial public offering in June 2004, the price of our common stock has ranged from approximately $2 per share to approximately $23 per share. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate in response to many factors, including: · developments concerning our collaborative agreements; · delays in commercialization of our flavor ingredients; · results of safety evaluation of our flavor ingredients; · developments related to the United States and international regulatory approval of our products; · results of consumer acceptance testing of our flavor ingredients by our collaborators; · announcements of technological innovations by us or others; · the discovery of a product defect or the commencement of a product recall; · an allegation of illness or injury relating to our flavor ingredients, whether meritorious or not, or any product liability judgment; · developments in patent or other proprietary rights; · changes in our management, key personnel or members of our Board of Directors; · future sales of our common stock by existing stockholders; · comments by securities analysts; · general market conditions, including the current economic and credit crisis; · fluctuations in our operating results; · government regulation; · failure of any of our flavor ingredients, if approved, to achieve commercial success; and · public concern as to the safety of our flavor ingredients. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law may make an acquisition of us more complicated and the removal and replacement of our directors and management more difficult. Provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of Delaware law, could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us, even if doing so would benefit our stockholders. These provisions may also make it difficult for stockholders to remove and replace our board of directors and management. These provisions: · authorize the issuance of “blank check” preferred stock by our board of directors, without stockholder approval, which could increase the number of outstanding shares and prevent or delay a takeover attempt; · limit who may call a special meeting of stockholders; · prohibit stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our stockholders; and · establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to the board of directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon at stockholder meetings. In addition, the requirements of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law may discourage, delay or prevent a third party from acquiring us. Our shareholder rights plan may hinder or prevent change of control transactions. Our shareholder rights plans may discourage transactions involving an actual or potential change in our ownership. In addition, our board of directors may issue shares of preferred stock without any further action by you. Such issuances may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our ownership. If changes in our ownership are discouraged, delayed or prevented, it would be more difficult for our current board of directors to be removed and replaced, even if you and other stockholders believe such actions are in the best interests of us and our stockholders. 39 Table of Contents We have never paid cash dividends on our capital stock and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our classes of capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. In addition, the terms of any future debt or credit facility may preclude us from paying any dividends. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be your sole source of potential gain for the foreseeable future. 40 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 