Item 1A. Risk Factors. As previously discussed, our actual results could differ materially from our forward-looking statements. Our business faces a variety of risks. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial. If any of the events or circumstances described in the following risk factors occur our business operations, performance and financial condition could be adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information in this 2009 Form 10-K. The ongoing economic downturn and continued uncertainty in the financial markets and other adverse changes in general conditions may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. The current global financial crisis that began in 2008 has caused disruption in the financial markets, including severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. While these conditions have not impaired our ability to access credit markets to date, there can be no assurance that these conditions will not adversely affect our ability to do so in the future, particularly if there is further deterioration in the world financial markets and major economies. As our business has grown, we have become increasingly subject to the risks arising from adverse changes in domestic and global economic conditions. Continued concerns about credit markets, consumer confidence, economic conditions, volatile corporate profits and reduced capital spending could continue to negatively impact demand for our products. If economic growth in the U.S. and other countries continues to be slow and does not improve, customers may delay purchasing of our products. The on-going tightening of credit in financial markets may adversely affect the ability of our customers and suppliers to obtain financing, which could result in a decrease in, or deferrals or cancellations of, the sale of our products. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the United States, remain uncertain or persist, spread, or deteriorate further, we may experience a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Unstable economic, political and social conditions make it difficult for our customers, our suppliers and us to accurately forecast and plan future business activities. If such conditions persist, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We cannot project the extent of the impact of the economic environment on our industry or us. Our quarterly revenues will likely be affected by various factors, including the timing of purchases by customers and the seasonal nature of purchasing in Europe. Our quarterly revenues will likely be affected by various factors, including the seasonal nature of purchasing in Europe. Our revenues may vary from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, including the timing of catalog mailings and new product introductions, the release of grant and budget funding, future acquisitions and our substantial sales to European customers, who in summer months often defer purchases. In particular, delays or reduction in purchase orders from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries could have a material adverse effect on us and could adversely affect our stock price. The failure of any banking institution in which we deposit our funds or the failure of such banking institution to provide services in the current economic environment could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or access to borrowings. We deposit our cash and cash equivalents with a number of financial institutions around the world. Should some or all of these financial institutions fail or otherwise be unable to timely perform requested services, we would likely have a limited ability to quickly access our cash deposited with such institutions. If we are unable to quickly access such funds, we may need to increase our use of our existing credit lines or access more expensive 11 Table of Contents credit, if available. If we are unable to access some or all of our cash on deposit, either temporarily or permanently, or if we access existing or additional credit or are unable to access additional credit, it could have a negative impact on our operations, including our reported net income, or our financial position, or both. If we engage in any acquisition, we will incur a variety of costs, and may never realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Our business strategy includes the future acquisition of businesses, technologies, services or products that we believe are a strategic fit with our business. If we undertake any acquisition, the process of integrating an acquired business, technology, service or product may result in unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and may absorb significant management attention that would otherwise be available for ongoing development of our business. Moreover, we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits of any acquisition as rapidly as expected or at all. Future acquisitions could reduce stockholders’ ownership, cause us to incur debt, expose us to future liabilities and result in amortization expenses related to intangible assets with definite lives. We may incur significant expenditures in anticipation of an acquisition that is never realized. We may not realize the expected benefits from acquisitions due to difficulties integrating the businesses, operations and product lines. Our ability to achieve the benefits of acquisitions depends in part on the integration and leveraging of technology, operations, sales and marketing channels and personnel. The integration process is a complex, time-consuming and expensive process and may disrupt our business if not completed in a timely and efficient manner. We may have difficulty successfully integrating the acquired businesses, the domestic and foreign operations or the product lines, and as a result, we may not realize any of the anticipated benefits of the acquisitions. Most recently, we completed the acquisition of Denville Scientific, Inc. in September 2009. We cannot assure that our growth rate will equal the growth rates that have been experienced by us and the acquired companies, respectively, operating as separate companies in the past. We have been actively engaged in acquiring and divesting companies. As a result, we may be the subject of lawsuits from either the acquiring company’s stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, the divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders. We may be the subject of lawsuits from either the acquiring company’s stockholders, an acquired company’s previous stockholders, the divested company’s stockholders or our current stockholders. These lawsuits could result from the actions of the acquisition or divestiture target prior to the date of the acquisition or divestiture, from the acquisition or divestiture transaction itself or from actions after the acquisition or divestiture. Defending potential lawsuits could cost us significant expense and detract management’s attention from the operation of the business. Additionally, these lawsuits could result in the cancellation of or the inability to renew, certain insurance coverage that would be necessary to protect our assets. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. We will consider the acquisition of other businesses. However, we may not have the opportunity to make suitable acquisitions on favorable terms in the future, which could negatively impact the growth of our business. In order to pursue such opportunities, we may require significant additional financing, which may not be available to us on favorable terms, if at all. We expect that our competitors, many of which have significantly greater resources than we do, will compete with us to acquire compatible businesses. This competition could increase prices for acquisitions that we would likely pursue. If our goodwill or intangible assets become impaired, we may be required to record a significant charge to earnings. Under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, we review our intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. 12 Table of Contents Goodwill is required to be tested for impairment at least annually. Factors that may be considered a change in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of our goodwill or other intangible assets may not be recoverable include a decline in our stock price and market capitalization, future cash flows, and slower growth rates in our industry. We may be required to record a significant charge to earnings in our financial statements during the period in which any impairment of our goodwill or other intangible assets is determined, resulting in an impact on our results of operations. Accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets may have a material adverse effect on us. We assess the recoverability of identifiable intangibles with finite lives and other long-lived assets, such as property, plant and equipment, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable in accordance with the provisions of Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) Accounting Standards Codification (“ASU”) 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment” (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets. In accordance with FASB ASU 350, “Intangibles-Goodwill and Other” (formerly SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets), goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives from acquisitions are evaluated annually, or more frequently, if events or circumstances indicate there may be an impairment, to determine whether any portion of the remaining balance of goodwill and indefinite lived intangibles may not be recoverable. If it is determined in the future that a portion of our goodwill and other intangible assets is impaired, we will be required to write off that portion of the asset according to the methods defined by FASB ASU 360 and FASB ASU 350, which could have an adverse effect on net income for the period in which the write off occurs. At December 31, 2009, our continuing operations had goodwill and intangible assets of $54.5 million, or 51%, of our total assets. Future changes in financial accounting standards may adversely affect our reported results of operations. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the SEC and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles. New accounting pronouncements and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in these principles can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even retroactively affect previously reported transactions. These new accounting pronouncements may adversely affect our reported financial results. If our accounting estimates are not correct, our financial results could be adversely affected. Management judgment and estimates are necessarily required in the application of our Critical Accounting Policies. We discuss these estimates in the subsection entitled Critical Accounting Policies beginning on page 38. If our estimates are incorrect, our future financial operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Additionally, our acquisition of Denville requires that a final contingent payment be made to the seller in 2010. To the extent that the final payment differs from our estimate of that payment, included in the Company’s balance sheet as of December 31, 2009, our 2010 results of operations could be significantly impacted. Our business is subject to economic, political and other risks associated with international revenues and operations. Since we manufacture and sell our products worldwide, our business is subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. Our revenues from our non-U.S. operations represented approximately 52% of total revenues for 2009. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a substantial portion of our revenues in the foreseeable future. In addition, a number of our manufacturing facilities and suppliers are located outside the United States. A global economic slowdown could have a negative effect on various foreign markets in which we operate. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: Ÿ the impact of recessions and other economic conditions in economies, including Europe in particular, outside the United States, Ÿ disruptions of capital and trading markets, 13 Table of Contents Ÿ inability to collect accounts receivable, Ÿ limitations on repatriations of funds, Ÿ potentially negative consequences from changes in tax laws affecting the ability to expatriate profits, Ÿ difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, unfavorable labor regulations applicable to European operations, such as severance and the unenforceability of non-competition agreements in the European Union, and Ÿ other factors beyond our control, including terrorism, acts of war, natural disasters and diseases. We are also subject to the risks of fluctuating foreign exchange rates, which could have a materially adverse effect on the sales price of our products in foreign markets, as well as the costs and expenses of our foreign subsidiaries. Generally, we do not use forward exchange contracts to hedge our foreign currency exposure. However, in order to mitigate the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, we used derivative financial instruments (or “foreign currency contracts”) to hedge the foreign currency effects on the value of certain loans between subsidiaries and do not designate these derivative instruments as accounting hedges. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may have a negative impact on our reported earnings. Approximately 48% of our business from continuing operations during 2009 was conducted in functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar, which is our reporting currency. As a result, currency fluctuations among the U.S. dollar and the currencies in which we do business have caused and will continue to cause foreign currency translation and transaction gains and losses. Currently, we attempt to manage foreign currency risk through the matching of assets and liabilities. In the future, we may undertake to manage foreign currency risk through additional hedging methods. We recognize foreign currency gains or losses arising from our operations in the period incurred. We cannot guarantee that we will be successful in managing foreign currency risk or in predicting the effects of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future operating results because of the number of currencies involved, the variability of currency exposure and the potential volatility of currency exchange rates. If we are not able to manage our growth, our operating profits or losses may be adversely impacted. Our success will depend on the expansion of our operations through both organic growth and acquisitions. Effective growth management will place increased demands on management, operational and financial resources and expertise. To manage growth, we must expand our facilities, augment our operational, financial and management systems, and hire and train additional qualified personnel. Failure to manage this growth effectively could impair our ability to generate revenue or could cause our expenses to increase more rapidly than revenue, resulting in operating losses or reduced profitability. We may incur additional restructuring costs or not realize the expected benefits of our initiatives to reduce operating expenses. During the quarter ended March 31, 2008, we committed to an ongoing initiative to consolidate business functions to reduce operating expenses. Our actions in 2008 were related to the separation of our electrophoresis product lines from our spectrophotometer and plate reader product lines. As part of these initiatives, we made changes in management, completed the consolidation of the Hoefer electrophoresis administrative and marketing operations from San Francisco, California to the headquarters of the Harvard Apparatus subsidiary in Holliston, Massachusetts and consolidated the activities of our Asys Hitech subsidiary in Austria to our Biochrom subsidiary’s facility located in Cambridge, UK. During the quarter ended March 31, 2009, the management of Harvard Bioscience initiated a plan to relocate the Scie-Plas operation to Hoefer’s San Francisco, California facility and exit its general fabrication business as part of its ongoing business improvement initiative. We may incur additional restructuring costs and we may not be able to realize fully the expected benefits of these initiatives. See Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements—Restructuring and Other Exit Costs. 14 Table of Contents If we fail to retain key personnel and hire, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to compete effectively, which could result in reduced revenue or increased costs. Our success is highly dependent on the continued services of key management, technical and scientific personnel. Our management and other employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any time upon short notice. The loss of the services of any member of the senior management team, including the Chief Executive Officer, Chane Graziano, the President, David Green, the Chief Operating Officer, Susan Luscinski, the Chief Financial Officer, Thomas McNaughton, or any of the managerial, technical or scientific staff may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of product development and other business objectives. Our future success will also depend on our ability to identify, recruit and retain additional qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in the technology area is intense, and we operate in several geographic locations where labor markets are particularly competitive, including Boston, Massachusetts and London and Cambridge, England, and where demand for personnel with these skills is extremely high and is likely to remain high. As a result, competition for qualified personnel is intense, particularly in the areas of general management, finance, information technology, engineering and science, and the process of hiring suitably qualified personnel is often lengthy and expensive, and may become more expensive in the future. If we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, our ability to conduct and expand our business could be seriously reduced. We may be unsuccessful in developing new products for existing markets. Our strategy includes developing new products to drive organic growth in our businesses. We may be unsuccessful developing new products that will be well received in existing markets. The products we develop may have less market demand than we anticipate or the demand may be at substantially lower prices than we anticipate. Our competitors may develop new products or technologies that diminish demand for our new products. Our customers may receive decreased funding levels, which may cause their demand for our products to decrease. Our efforts to develop new intellectual property and new products may be costly. Substantial failure in our new product development program could have a material impact on our results of operation and our financial condition. We may be unsuccessful in launching new products or expanding product offerings in the field of regenerative medicine. We recently announced the launch of our new ORGANIZER Series Model 100 “In Breath” bioreactor, which is our first product in the field of regenerative medicine. We also announced that we intend to develop a series of products to address what we believe is a long-term growth opportunity in the field of regenerative medicine. Although we believe the field of regenerative medicine presents long-term opportunities for the Company, we may be unsuccessful in identifying and pursuing such opportunities. We may be unsuccessful in introducing new products in the field of regenerative medicine, expanding current product offerings and commercializing new technologies. In addition, there may be a lack of demand in the present or in the future for the products that we introduce in the field of regenerative medicine. We may be required to obtain regulatory approvals, including FDA approvals, for our products in the field of regenerative medicine and there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully obtain such approvals on a timely basis or at all. The current size and the anticipated size of the regenerative medicine market may be smaller than what we currently believe. In addition, the existence and size of the opportunities that we believe are currently, or may in the future be, available to the Company may not exist or develop. We may experience competition from many competitors, some of whom may have greater resources or better products or technologies than we do. Our customers may experience decreased demand for our products and research funding levels from endowments at our university customers may decrease. Finally, we will need to acquire, develop and protect our intellectual property, which may involve significant costs, and operate without infringing on the intellectual property of others. Any failure in our pursuit of opportunities in the field of regenerative medicine could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 15 Table of Contents Our competitors and potential competitors may develop products and technologies that are more effective or commercially attractive than our products. We expect to encounter increased competition from both established and development-stage companies that continually enter the market. We anticipate that these competitors will include: Ÿ companies developing and marketing life sciences research tools, Ÿ health care companies that manufacture laboratory-based tests and analyzers, Ÿ diagnostic and pharmaceutical companies, Ÿ analytical instrument companies, and Ÿ companies developing life science or drug discovery technologies. Currently, our principal competition comes from established companies that provide products that perform many of the same functions for which we market our products. Our competitors may develop or market products that are more effective or commercially attractive than our current or future products. Many of our competitors have substantially greater financial, operational, marketing and technical resources than we do. Moreover, these competitors may offer broader product lines and tactical discounts, and may have greater name recognition. In addition, we may face competition from new entrants into the field. We may not have the financial resources, technical expertise or marketing, distribution or support capabilities to compete successfully in the future. Our products compete in markets that are subject to technological change, and therefore one or more of our products could be made obsolete by new technologies. Because the market for life science tools is characterized by technological change and frequent new product introductions, our product lines may be made obsolete unless we are able to continually improve existing products and develop new products. To meet the evolving needs of customers, we must continually enhance our current and planned products and develop and introduce new products. However, we may experience difficulties that may delay or prevent the successful development, introduction and marketing of new products or product enhancements. In addition, our product lines are based on complex technologies that are subject to change as new technologies are developed and introduced in the marketplace. We may have difficulty in keeping abreast of the changes affecting each of the different markets we serve or intend to serve. Our failure to develop and introduce products in a timely manner in response to changing technology, market demands or the requirements of our customers could cause our product sales to decline, and we could experience significant losses. We offer and plan to offer a broad product line and have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial expenses for development of new products and enhanced versions of our existing products. The speed of technological change in our market may prevent us from being able to successfully market some or all of our products for the length of time required to recover development costs. Failure to recover the development costs of one or more products or product lines could decrease our profitability or cause us to experience significant losses. Our $20.0 million credit facility contains certain financial and negative covenants, the breach of which may adversely affect our financial condition. We have a $20.0 million revolving credit loan agreement with Bank of America, as agent, and Bank of America and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co as lenders. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had borrowings of $13.3 million and no borrowings, respectively, under the credit facility. The credit facility includes covenants relating to income, debt coverage and cash flow and minimum working capital requirements. The credit facility also contains limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $6.0 million and for acquisitions funded solely with equity in excess of $10.0 million. If we are not in compliance with certain of these covenants, in addition to other actions the creditor may require, the amounts drawn on the $20.0 million facility may become immediately due and payable. This immediate payment may negatively impact our financial condition. 16 Table of Contents Failure to raise additional capital or generate the significant capital necessary to implement our acquisition strategy, expand our operations and invest in new products could reduce our ability to compete and result in lower revenue. We anticipate that our financial resources, which include available cash, cash generated from operations, and debt and equity capacity, will be sufficient to finance operations and capital expenditures for at least twelve months. However, this expectation is premised on the current operating plan, which may change as a result of many factors, including market acceptance of new products and future opportunities with collaborators. Consequently, we may need additional funding sooner than anticipated. Our inability to raise sufficient capital on favorable terms and on a timely basis (if at all) could seriously harm our business, product development and acquisition efforts. If we raise additional funds through the sale of equity or convertible debt or equity-linked securities, existing percentages of ownership in our common stock will be reduced. In addition, these transactions may dilute the value of our outstanding common stock. We may issue securities that have rights, preferences and privileges senior to our common stock. If we raise additional funds through collaborations or licensing arrangements, we may relinquish rights to certain of our technologies or products, or grant licenses to third parties on terms that are unfavorable. In addition, our revolving credit loan agreement with Bank of America, as agent, and Bank of America and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co as lenders, contains limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness and requires lender approval for acquisitions funded with cash, promissory notes and/or other consideration in excess of $6.0 million and for acquisitions funded solely with equity in excess of $10.0 million. If future financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, we may have to alter our operations or change our business strategy. We cannot assure you that the capital required to fund operations or our acquisition strategy will be available in the future. If GE Healthcare (formerly Amersham Biosciences) terminates its distribution agreements with us, fails to renew such agreements on favorable terms or fails to perform its obligations under the distribution agreements, it could impair the marketing and distribution efforts for some of our products and result in lost revenues. During 2004, General Electric Company acquired Amersham plc, the parent of Amersham Biosciences. In connection with the acquisition, Amersham Biosciences was renamed GE Healthcare. While GE Healthcare has indicated its intention to continue Amersham’s presence in the life science market, and we believe our relationship with GE Healthcare is good, we cannot guarantee that the distribution agreements will be renewed, that GE Healthcare will aggressively market our products in the future or that GE Healthcare will continue the partnership. If any of these events occurs, our marketing and distribution efforts for some of our products may be impaired and our revenues may be adversely impacted. For 2009, approximately 12% of our revenues were generated through two distribution agreements with GE Healthcare. In April 2008, our Biochrom subsidiary entered into a new distribution agreement with GE Healthcare. This distribution agreement between Biochrom and GE Healthcare, formerly Amersham Biosciences, is a continuation of a long standing relationship between the companies. Under the terms of the agreement, GE Healthcare will serve as the exclusive, worldwide (except Canada) distributor, marketer and seller of a significant portion of the spectrophotometer and DNA/RNA calculator product lines sold by Biochrom, including the microliter spectrophotometer to which GE Healthcare has exclusive access to on a worldwide basis including Canada. We are restricted from allowing another person or entity to distribute, market and sell into the life sciences market the products that Biochrom makes specifically for GE Healthcare. We have little or no control over GE Healthcare’s marketing and sales activities or the use of its resources. GE Healthcare may fail to purchase sufficient quantities of products from us or perform appropriate marketing and sales activities. The failure by GE Healthcare to perform these activities could materially adversely affect our business and growth prospects. In addition, our inability to enter into a new agreement with GE Healthcare for product distribution could materially impede the growth of our business and our ability to generate sufficient revenue. The term of the agreement expires December 31, 2012, may be extended by GE Healthcare for additional one-year periods and may be 17 Table of Contents terminated by either party upon one year advance written notice after March 27, 2009. Additionally, upon breach of certain terms of the agreement by either party, the agreement may be terminated with a 60-day notice period. The second distribution agreement, between Hoefer, Inc., our subsidiary, and GE Healthcare was entered into in November 2003 in connection with our acquisition of certain assets of the Hoefer 1-D gel electrophoresis business, including the Hoefer name, from Amersham Bioscience. The agreement provides that Hoefer will be the exclusive supplier of 1-D gel electrophoresis products to GE Healthcare. Hoefer also has the right to develop, manufacture and market 2-D gel electrophoresis products, which would be offered to GE Healthcare for sale under GE Healthcare’s brand name. Hoefer has the right to sell any of its products, under the Hoefer brand name or any other non-GE Healthcare brand name, through other distribution channels, both direct and indirect. This contract has a five-year term with an automatic five-year renewal period, and may be terminated after five years with a one-year advance notice under certain circumstances. Additionally, upon breach of certain terms of the agreement, such as pricing, exclusivity and delivery, by either party, the agreement may be terminated with a 30-day notice period. If we are unable to effectively protect our intellectual property, third parties may use our technology, which would impair our ability to compete in our markets. Our continued success will depend in significant part on our ability to obtain and maintain meaningful patent protection for certain of our products throughout the world. Patent law relating to the scope of claims in the technology fields in which we operate is still evolving. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. We also own numerous U.S. registered trademarks and trade names and have applications for the registration of trademarks and trade names pending. We rely on patents to protect a significant part of our intellectual property and to enhance our competitive position. However, our presently pending or future patent applications may not issue as patents, and any patent previously issued to us may be challenged, invalidated, held unenforceable or circumvented. Furthermore, the claims in patents which have been issued or which may be issued to us in the future may not be sufficiently broad to prevent third parties from producing competing products similar to our products. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries in which we compete may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent, as do the laws of the United States. If we fail to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary technology, our ability to be commercially competitive will be materially impaired. In addition to patent protection, we also rely on protection of trade secrets, know-how and confidential and proprietary information. To maintain the confidentiality of trade-secrets and proprietary information, we generally seek to enter into confidentiality agreements with our employees, consultants and strategic partners upon the commencement of a relationship. However, we may not be able to obtain these agreements in all circumstances in part due to local regulations. In the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information, these agreements, even if obtained, may not provide meaningful protection for our trade-secrets or other confidential information. In addition, adequate remedies may not exist in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of this information. The loss or exposure of our trade secrets and other proprietary information would impair our competitive advantages and could have a material adverse effect on our operating results, financial condition and future growth prospects. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents that would be expensive and time-consuming. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may initiate patent litigation against third parties. We may also become subject to interference proceedings conducted in the patent and trademark offices of various countries to determine the priority of inventions. Several of our products are based on patents that are closely surrounded by patents held by competitors or potential competitors. As a result, we believe there is a greater likelihood of a patent dispute than would be expected if our patents were not closely surrounded by other patents. The defense and prosecution, if necessary, of intellectual property suits, interference proceedings and related legal and administrative proceedings would be costly and divert our technical and management personnel from their normal responsibilities. We may not prevail in any of these suits should they occur. An adverse determination of any litigation or defense proceedings could put our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. 18 Table of Contents Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. For example, during the course of this kind of litigation, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments in the litigation. Securities analysts or investors may perceive these announcements to be negative, which could cause the market price of our stock to decline. Our success will depend partly on our ability to operate without infringing on or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of others. We may be sued for infringing on the intellectual property rights of others, including the patent rights, trademarks and trade names of third parties. Intellectual property litigation is costly and the outcome is uncertain. If we do not prevail in any intellectual property litigation, in addition to any damages we might have to pay, we could be required to stop the infringing activity, or obtain a license to or design around the intellectual property in question. If we are unable to obtain a required license on acceptable terms, or are unable to design around any third party patent, we may be unable to sell some of our products and services, which could result in reduced revenue. Many of our current and potential customers are from the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries and are subject to risks faced by those industries. We derive a substantial portion of our revenues from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We expect that pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies will continue to be one of our major sources of revenues for the foreseeable future. As a result, we are subject to risks and uncertainties that affect the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, such as pricing pressures as third-party payers continue challenging the pricing of medical products and services, government regulation, ongoing consolidation and uncertainty of technological change, and to reductions and delays in research and development expenditures by companies in these industries. In particular, the biotechnology industry is largely dependent on raising capital to fund its operations. If biotechnology companies are unable to obtain the financing necessary to purchase our products, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. As it relates to both the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, many companies have significant patents that have expired or are about to expire, which could result in reduced revenues for those companies. If pharmaceutical companies suffer reduced revenues as a result of these patent expirations, they may be unable to purchase our products, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In addition, we are dependent, both directly and indirectly, upon general health care spending patterns, particularly in the research and development budgets of the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, as well as upon the financial condition and purchasing patterns of various governments and government agencies. Many of our customers, including universities, government research laboratories, private foundations and other institutions, obtain funding for the purchase of products from grants by governments or government agencies. There exists the risk of a potential decrease in the level of governmental spending allocated to scientific and medical research, which could substantially reduce or even eliminate these grants. If government funding necessary to purchase our products were to decrease, our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Customer, vendor and employee uncertainty about the effects of any of our acquisitions could harm us. We and the customers of any companies we acquire may, in response to the consummation of the acquisitions, delay or defer purchasing decisions. Any delay or deferral in purchasing decisions by customers could adversely affect our business. Similarly, employees of acquired companies may experience uncertainty about their future role until or after we execute our strategies with regard to employees of acquired companies. This may adversely affect our ability to attract and retain key management, sales, marketing and technical personnel following an acquisition. 19 Table of Contents Ethical concerns surrounding the use of our products and misunderstanding of the nature of our business could adversely affect our ability to develop and sell our existing products and new products. Some of our products may be used in areas of research involving cloning, stem cells, human tissue and organ transplants, animal research and other techniques presently being explored in the life science industry. These techniques have drawn much negative attention recently in the public forum. Government authorities may regulate or prohibit any of these activities. Additionally, the public may disfavor or reject these activities. Our stock price has fluctuated in the past and could experience substantial declines in the future and, as a result, management’s attention may be diverted from tasks that are more productive. The market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may become volatile and could decline in the future, perhaps substantially, in response to various factors including: Ÿ volatility of the financial markets, Ÿ uncertainty regarding the prospects of the domestic and foreign economies, Ÿ technological innovations by competitors or in competing technologies, Ÿ revenues and operating results fluctuating or failing to meet the expectations of management, securities analysts, or investors in any quarter, Ÿ comments of securities analysts and mistakes by or misinterpretation of comments from analysts, downward revisions in securities analysts’ estimates or management guidance, Ÿ investment banks and securities analysts may themselves be subject to lawsuits that may adversely affect the perception of the market, Ÿ conditions or trends in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries, Ÿ announcements of significant acquisitions or financings or changes in strategic partnerships, Ÿ non-compliance with the internal control standards pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and Ÿ a decrease in the demand for our common stock. In addition, public stock markets have experienced extreme price and trading volatility. The stock market and the NASDAQ Global Market in general, and the biotechnology industry and small cap markets in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that at times may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. These broad market and industry factors may further harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. In the past, securities class action litigation has often been instituted following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities. A securities class action suit against us could result in substantial costs, potential liabilities and the diversion of management’s attention and resources. Provisions of Delaware law, of our charter and bylaws and our Shareholder Rights Plan may make a takeover more difficult, which could cause our stock price to decline. Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and in the Delaware corporate law may make it difficult and expensive for a third party to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt, which is opposed by management and the board of directors. Public stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have an opportunity to do so. In February 2008, our Board of Directors adopted a Shareholder Rights Plan that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or could discourage a third party from acquiring, the Company or a large block of our common stock. A third party that acquires 20% or more of our common stock (an “acquiring person”) could suffer substantial dilution of its ownership interest under the terms of the Shareholder Rights Plan through the issuance of common stock to all shareholders other than the acquiring person. We also have a staggered board of directors that makes it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board of directors in any one year. These anti-takeover provisions could 20 Table of Contents substantially impede the ability of public stockholders to change our management and board of directors. Such provisions may also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay for shares of our common stock in the future. An active trading market for our common stock may not be sustained. Although our common stock is quoted on the NASDAQ Global Market, an active trading market for the shares may not be sustained. Any issuance of preferred stock in the future may dilute the rights of our common stockholders. Our board of directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, privileges and other terms of these shares. The board of directors may exercise this authority without any further approval of stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be adversely affected by the rights of future holders of preferred stock. Cash dividends will not be paid on our common stock. Currently, we intend to retain all of our earnings to finance the expansion and development of our business and do not anticipate paying any cash dividends to holders of our common stock in the near future. As a result, capital appreciation, if any, of our common stock will be a stockholder’s sole source of gain for the near future. As a public company, we have and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 