Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Operations—Our business is highly dependent upon revenues from Cancún International Airport.” The airport’s facilities include Terminal 1 (the charter terminal), Terminal 2 (the old main terminal, which includes a wing referred to as the satellite wing), Terminal 3 (the new terminal that commenced operations in May 2007 as described below) and a general aviation building that handles private aircraft. The airport has 40 gates, 20 of which are accessible by passenger walkways. Terminal 2 has nine gates accessible by passenger walkways, Terminal 3 has 11 boarding gates accessible by passenger walkways. 44 Table of Contents The airport has 289 retail outlets located throughout Terminals 2 and 3, and one bank branch located in Terminal 3. As part of our commercial strategy, in the fourth quarter of 2005 we completed an expansion of 8,224 square meters (approximately 88,621 square feet) and a remodeling of 1,387 square meters (approximately 14,445 square feet), giving us a total of 52,522 square meters (approximately 563,342 square feet) in Cancún Airport’s Terminal 2. On December 6, 2005, we began construction on Terminal 3, which we opened on May 17, 2007, and which began operations on May 18, 2007. With a total investment of approximately U.S.$100.0 million, Terminal 3 constitutes our most ambitious investment project to-date. Terminal 3 has doubled international passenger capacity at Cancún International Airport. The new building, measuring a total area of 45,263 square meters (approximately 487,207 square feet), has capacity for 84 check-in counters and 11 boarding gates with boarding bridges and four remote boarding gates served by buses, as well as 27 retail outlets and one bank branch. The terminal features state-of-the-art passenger information systems and security equipment, including the first CT scanning system (a system that uses x-rays to form a three-dimensional model of the contents of a piece of luggage) in Mexico for all checked baggage. The charter terminal in Cancún International Airport, which we acquired on June 30, 1999, has an additional 20,383 square meters (approximately 234,007 square feet). Cancún International Airport currently has two runways. The first runway has a length of 3,500 meters (2.2 miles). The second runway, which was completed in 2009, has a length of 2,800 meters (1.7 miles). Along with the second runway, we also built a new control tower at Cancún airport in 2009. In April 2006, we obtained a license to develop cargo facilities at the airport, which are currently being operated by Caribbean Logistics, S.A. de C.V. (previously Asur Carga, S.A. de C.V.). As of February 2013, we charge taxis and passenger vans an access fee of Ps.19.37, and buses an access fee of Ps.32.88, upon entering the airport. In October 2004, the Mexican state of Quintana Roo formed a majority state-owned company, Aeropuerto Internacional de la Riviera Maya, S.A. de C.V., to seek a concession from the Mexican federal government to build and operate a new airport in the Mayan Riviera region of the state, which is currently served primarily by Cancún International Airport. This airport would be approximately 101 kilometers from our airport in Cancún and could adversely affect passenger traffic there. The bidding process for the concession for the airport was announced on May 11, 2010. Three companies, including ASUR, participated in the bidding process for the concession. On January 31, 2011, the Federal Competition Commission (COFECO) issued an unfavorable decision regarding our participation in the bidding process for the construction, maintenance and operation of the Riviera Maya airport. We disagreed with the decision and the views expressed by COFECO and on March 11, 2011, we initiated legal proceedings pursuant to established Mexican legislation to defend our right to participate in the bidding process. On May 20, 2011, we were notified by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, through the Mexican Civil Aviation Authority, that the international public bidding process was cancelled because none of the technical bids presented by the participants complied with the requirements established in the bidding documents. As a result, these legal proceedings were cancelled and have therefore terminated. No party was declared the 45 Table of Contents winner of these legal proceeding. If the bidding process is restarted, we may again be denied the right to participate. As a result, we are unable to estimate the potential financial impact, if any, that the decision to not let us participate in the bidding process will have on the future earnings of Cancún Airport. Mérida International Airport Mérida International Airport serves the inland city of Mérida, which has a population of approximately 828,834 and surrounding areas in the state of Yucatan. Mérida International Airport ranked second among our airports in 2012 in terms of passenger traffic and contribution to revenues. The substantial majority of this airport’s passengers are domestic. The airport’s primary point of origin and destination is Mexico City. In 2012, approximately 1.2 million passengers traveled through Mérida International Airport. Mérida International Airport attracts a mix of both business travelers and tourists. The city of Mérida is an established urban area with numerous small and medium-sized businesses. The city is approximately 120 kilometers (75 miles) by highway from Chichen Itza and approximately 80 kilometers (50 miles) from Uxmal, pre-Columbian archeological sites that attract a significant number of tourists. The airport has two perpendicular runways, one with a length of 3,200 meters (2.0 miles) and another with a length of 2,300 meters (1.4 miles). The airport has one terminal, with four gates accessible by passenger walkways and six remote boarding positions. As part of our commercial strategy, we remodeled the entire 16,731 square meters (180,091 square feet) in 2001. This remodeled area was opened in December 2001. In 2011 and 2012 approximately 17,732 and 17,713 metric tons of cargo, respectively, were transported through Mérida International Airport, making it our leading airport in terms of cargo volume. In 2011 and 2012 Mérida represented approximately 35.8% and 34.4% respectively, of our total cargo volume. We have considered opportunities for further developing the Mérida cargo facilities, but we have no plans to pursue such opportunities at this time. There are currently 39 businesses operating in Mérida International Airport. One business is operated by Grupo de Desarrollo del Sureste, S.A. de C.V. (GDS) pursuant to a long-term lease contract that terminated on January 1, 2009. This lease allowed GDS to construct and develop the airport’s air cargo terminal. Although GDS continues operating the business notwithstanding the termination of the lease, we have initiated legal proceedings to have them evicted, which are currently in process. In addition, we opened a retail store in the terminal in August 2007 and a car rental company was opened in October 2009. Our concession provides us the right to collect landing charges and parking charges for aircraft using the cargo terminal. Cozumel International Airport Cozumel International Airport is located on the island of Cozumel in the state of Quintana Roo. The airport primarily serves foreign tourists. During 2012, approximately 457,269 passengers traveled through Cozumel International Airport, most of which were international passengers. Cozumel is the most frequently visited destination for cruise ships in Mexico, hosting approximately 2.89 million and 2.75 million cruise ship visitors in 2011 and 2012, respectively. Cozumel has one of the world’s largest coral reserves, 46 Table of Contents and many passengers traveling to Cozumel are divers. The airport’s most important points of origin and destination are Houston, Dallas, Atlanta and Mexico City. The island of Cozumel has a population of approximately 83,373. As part of our commercial strategy, at Cozumel International Airport’s terminal we completed an expansion of 2,218 square meters (approximately 23,900 square feet) and a remodeling of 1,132 square meters (approximately 12,200 square feet) in 2001, giving us a terminal building with a total of 9,831 square meters (approximately 105,820 square feet). The airport has a commercial runway with a length of 2,700 meters (1.7 miles). The airport has one main commercial terminal with four remote boarding positions. The airport also has a general aviation building for small private aircraft. There are currently 32 businesses operating at Cozumel International Airport. Villahermosa International Airport Villahermosa International Airport is located in the state of Tabasco, approximately 75 kilometers (46.9 miles) from Palenque, a Mayan archeological site. The city of Villahermosa has a population of approximately 667,137. Oil exploration is the principal business activity in the Villahermosa area, and most of the airport’s passengers are businesspeople working in the oil industry. During 2012, the airport served approximately 960,094 passengers, substantially all of which arrived on domestic flights. The airport’s most important point of origin and destination is Mexico City. As a result of a modernization project carried out in 2006 the airport’s commercial aviation apron was extended by a total of 12,521 square meters (approximately 134,634 square feet), representing an increase of 87%. The terminal building was expanded from 5,463 square meters (approximately 58,741 square feet) to 9,584 square meters (approximately 103,161 square feet), representing an increase of 77%. There are currently 28 businesses operating at Villahermosa International Airport. The airport has one runway with a length of 2,200 meters (1.4 miles), which was repaired in 2010. The airport’s terminal has six remote parking positions, with three served by boarding bridges. Oaxaca International Airport Oaxaca International Airport serves the city of Oaxaca, which is the capital of the state of Oaxaca. The city of Oaxaca, located 390 kilometers (243.8 miles) from the Pacific coast, has a population of approximately 316,390. The airport served approximately 473,133 passengers in 2012, most of which were domestic. The airport’s passengers are primarily Mexican businesspeople and tourists, thus its passenger volume and results of operations are dependent on Mexican economic conditions. Oaxaca is a picturesque colonial city located near several tourist attractions, including the archeological ruins of Monte Alban and Mitla. The airport’s most important point of origin and destination is Mexico City. 47 Table of Contents The airport has one runway with a length of 2,450 meters (1.5 miles) and a terminal building with six remote positions. The airport also includes a general aviation building for small private airplanes with 20 positions. There are currently 21 businesses operating at Oaxaca International Airport. Veracruz International Airport Veracruz International Airport is located in the city of Veracruz along the Gulf of Mexico. The city of Veracruz has a population of approximately 557,951. Veracruz is the busiest port in Mexico in terms of commercial traffic, and is the location of the country’s largest container terminal. According to the Mexican Bureau of Ports, Veracruz accounted for 7.7% of all waterborne cargo handled by Mexican ports in 2012. In 2012, the airport served approximately 894,552 passengers. Because the airport’s passengers are primarily Mexican business people, its passenger volume and results of operations are dependent on Mexican economic conditions. The airport’s most important point of origin and destination is Mexico City. The original 4,065 square meters (43,700 square feet) of the terminal building at the airport were remodeled in 2005, and an extension of 2,000 square meters (21,500 square feet) was added, representing an increase of 49%. In addition, special collapsible jetways were built to protect passengers during boarding and disembarking, along with a new international baggage claim facility and bigger, newer offices and facilities for federal authorities. There are currently 22 businesses operating at Veracruz International Airport. The airport has two perpendicular runways, one with a length of 2,400 meters (1.5 miles) and another with a length of 1,523 meters (1.0 miles). The airport has one main commercial terminal. The airport also has a general aviation building for small private aircraft with 23 positions. Huatulco International Airport Huatulco International Airport serves the Huatulco resort area in the state of Oaxaca on Mexico’s Pacific coast. Huatulco has a population of approximately 38,294, and was first developed as a tourist resort in the late 1980s. The airport served approximately 473,262 passengers in 2012, most of which were domestic. The substantial majority of the airport’s passengers are international tourists, although many arrive through domestic flights and are thus classified as domestic. The airport’s most important points of origin and destination are Mexico City, Monterrey and Oaxaca. The airport has one runway with a length of 2,700 meters (1.7 miles). The airport’s terminal has five remote positions. The airport has a general aviation building for small private airplanes with eight positions. There are currently 26 businesses operating at Huatulco International Airport. 48 Table of Contents Tapachula International Airport Tapachula International Airport serves the city of Tapachula, which has a population of approximately 202,003, and the state of Chiapas. In 2012, the airport served approximately 157,926 passengers, substantially all of which were domestic. The airport’s passenger volume and results of operations are dependent on Mexican economic conditions since virtually all of its passengers are domestic. The airport’s most important point of origin and destination is Mexico City. The airport has one runway with a length of 2,000 meters (1.3 miles), which was repaired in 2010. The airport has one terminal with three remote boarding positions. The airport also has a general aviation building for small private aircraft with 24 boarding positions. There are currently 18 businesses operating at Tapachula International Airport. Minatitlán International Airport Minatitlán International Airport is located near the Gulf of Mexico, 13 kilometers (8.1 miles) from the city of Coatzacoalcos in the state of Veracruz, 11 kilometers (6.9 miles) from the city of Cosoleacaque and 26 kilometers (16.2 miles) from the city of Minatitlán. The metropolitan area comprised of these three cities has a population of approximately 111,031. In 2012, the airport served approximately 133,235 passengers. In recent years, the airport’s passenger traffic has decreased due to lower oil and petrochemical industry activity in Coatzacoalcos and Cosoleacaque. The airport’s passengers are principally domestic business people drawn by the area’s petrochemical and agriculture businesses. Because the airport’s passengers are primarily Mexican travelers, its passenger volume and results of operations are dependent on Mexican economic conditions. The airport’s most important point of origin and destination is Mexico City. The airport has one runway with a length of 2,100 meters (1.3 miles). The airport’s main terminal has four remote parking positions. The airport has a general aviation building for small private airplanes with 30 boarding positions. There are currently 14 businesses operating at Minatitlán International Airport. Other Properties In October 2008, we purchased 130 hectares of land on the bay of Huatulco from FONATUR for Ps.286.3 million. We won the right to purchase the land through a public bidding process that was part of a program launched by the Mexican Government to accelerate the development of Huatulco as a flagship city for Mexican tourism. Pursuant to the terms of the purchase agreement, we are required to construct at least 450, and no more than 1,300 hotel rooms. We will be considered to have satisfied our obligations under the purchase agreement when at least 80% of the construction on 450 hotel rooms is completed. On March 26, 2013, FONATUR relieved us of the obligation to submit architectural plans and begin and complete construction within a specific timeframe. Therefore, we are no longer subject to penalties by FONATUR if we do not present the architectural plans or complete the project within the allotted time. However, we cannot assure you that FONATUR will not make future requests to complete the project within a set timeframe or that we will be able to timely complete the required steps within that timeframe. 49 Table of Contents Principal Air Traffic Customers of our Mexican Airports As of December 31, 2012, 72 international airlines and 9 Mexican airlines operated flights at our nine airports (including airlines operating solely on a code share basis). A code share arrangement means that airlines that do not fly their own aircraft into our airports arrange to share the passenger space in another airline’s aircraft, with both airlines booking passengers through the same code. Prior to August 2010, Grupo Mexicana, whose subsidiaries include Mexicana and Click (formerly known as Aerovías Caribe), operated the most flights at our airports, with Grupo Aeromexico providing the fifth highest number of flights. Grupo Mexicana ceased operations on August 28, 2010. Since then, the airline that operates the most flights at our airports is Aerovias de Mexico, S.A. de C.V (Aeromexico). Grupo Aeromexico also control other airlines operating in our airports, including Aerocozumel and Aeromexpress, as well as the largest provider of baggage and ramp handling services at our airports, Administradora Especializada. Among foreign airlines, American Airlines and United Air Lines (previously United Air Lines and Continental Airlines) operate the greatest number of flights to and from our airports. In 2011, American Airlines and United Air Lines (previously United Air Lines and Continental Airlines) accounted for 4.5% and 5.4%, respectively, of our revenues. On November 29, 2011, American Airlines, Inc. and certain of their respective affiliates, filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S. As of December 31, 2012, our accounts receivable balance with American Airlines is Ps.20.7 million. As of the date of this report, American Airlines has continued to operate normally throughout the bankruptcy process and the restructuring has not affected its flight schedules. However, no assurances can be made that American Airlines will not reduce flight schedules or use the bankruptcy process to restructure its existing agreements with or obligations to us. Additionally, on February 24, 2013, American Airlines and US Airways Group, Inc. announced that they intend to merge into a new company that will keep the American Airlines name. In 2011 and 2012, American Airlines and US Airways together accounted for approximately 7.0% of our revenues. American Airlines and US Airways have announced that the merger is expected to be completed once American Airlines exits bankruptcy protection, which American Airlines has announced is expected in the third quarter of 2013. Completion of the merger is pending approval from American Airline’s bankruptcy judge and U.S. regulators. The following table sets forth our principal air traffic customers based on the percentage of revenues they represented for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012: 50 Table of Contents Principal Air Traffic Customers Percentage of ASUR Revenues Year ended December 31, 2011 2012 Customer United Air Lines, Inc.(2) 5.4% 5.0% American Airlines(1) (3) 4.5% 4.5% US Airways Group, Inc.(3) 2.5% 2.5% Aerovías de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (Aeromexico) 5.4% 5.3% Aviation Support S.A. de C.V. 3.3% 3.9% Delta Air Lines, Inc. 3.2% 2.9% Aviacion Comercial Especializada S.A. de C.V. 1.8% 1.7% Air Canada 0.9% 0.8% Other 73.0% 73.4% Total 100.0% 100.0% (1) American Airlines, Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection in the U.S. on November 29, 2011. See “Item 5—Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Recent Developments—American Airlines Files For Bankruptcy.” (2) On May 3, 2010, Continental Airlines, Inc. merged with UAL, Inc. (the parent company of United Air Lines, Inc.). (3) On February 24, 2013, American Airlines, Inc. and US Airways Group, Inc. announced that they intend to merge into a new company that will keep the American Airlines name. See “Item 4—Information on the Company—Principal Air Traffic Customers of our Mexican Airports.” Seasonality Our business is subject to seasonal fluctuations. In general, demand for air travel is typically higher during the summer months and during the winter holiday season, particularly in international markets, because there is more vacation travel during these periods. Our results of operations generally reflect this seasonality, but have also been impacted by numerous other factors that are not necessarily seasonal, including economic conditions, war or threat of war, weather, air traffic control delays and general economic conditions, as well as the other factors discussed above. As a result, our operating results for a quarterly period are not necessarily indicative of operating results for an entire year, and historical operating results are not necessarily indicative of future operating results. Competition Since our business is substantially dependent on international tourists, our principal competition is from competing tourist destinations. We believe that the main competitors to Cancún are vacation destinations in Mexico, such as Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta and Los Cabos, and elsewhere such as Florida, Cuba, Jamaica, the Dominican Republic and other Caribbean island and Central American resorts. In March 2000, a new airport opened in Chichen Itza. This airport is operated by the former operator of the charter terminal in Cancún airport. In addition, the Mexican government has announced its intention to grant a concession for a new airport in the Mayan Riviera through a public bidding process. The bidding process for the Mayan Riviera airport was announced on May 11, 2010. Three companies, including ASUR, participated in the bidding process. On January 31, 2011, the Federal Competition Commission (COFECO) issued an unfavorable decision regarding our participation in the bidding process for the construction, maintenance and operation of the Riviera Maya airport. We disagreed with the decision and the views expressed by COFECO and on March 11, 2011, 51 Table of Contents we initiated legal proceedings pursuant to established Mexican legislation to defend our right to participate in the bidding process. On May 20, 2011, we were notified by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, through the Mexican Civil Aviation Authority, that the international public bidding process was cancelled because none of the technical bids presented by the participants complied with the requirements established in the bidding documents. As a result, these legal proceedings were cancelled and have therefore terminated. No party was declared the winner of these legal proceeding. If the bidding process is restarted, we may again be denied the right to participate. As a result, we are unable to estimate the potential financial impact, if any, that the decision to not let us participate in the bidding process will have on the future earnings of Cancún airport. In October 2004, the Mexican state of Quintana Roo formed a majority state-owned company, Aeropuerto Internacional de la Riviera Maya, S.A. de C.V., to seek any such concession that may be granted. Currently, the Mayan Riviera is served primarily by Cancún airport. Although the Ministry of Communications and Transportation has committed to adjust the master development plans and maximum rates for our airports within three months of the granting of a concession for the Mayan Riviera Airport, we are unable to predict the effect that the new airport may have on our passenger traffic or operating results if the project is successfully carried out, and the extent of any revisions to our master development plans or maximum rates. The relative attractiveness of the locations we serve is dependent on many factors, some of which are beyond our control. These factors include promotional activities and pricing policies of hotel and resort operators, weather conditions, perceptions of security, natural disasters (such as hurricanes) and the development of new resorts that may be considered more attractive. There can be no assurance that the locations we serve will continue to attract the same level of passenger traffic in the future. The Mexican Airport and Auxiliary Services Agency currently operates seven small airports in Mexico’s southeast region. The Mexican Airport and Auxiliary Services Agency estimates that its airports collectively account for less than 10% of the passenger traffic in the region. Other Airports Luis Muñoz Marín International Airport We, through our Cancún airport subsidiary, own a 50% interest in Aerostar, which has a 40 year lease for the Luis Muñoz Marín (LMM) International Airport. The LMM Airport is located three miles outside of San Juan, Puerto Rico. It is the Caribbean’s largest and busiest airport, offering leisure and business travel to over 50 destinations. The LMM Airport is ranked as the 18th largest medium hub facility and the 47th largest airport in the United States by the FAA based on number of enplanements, as of October 2012. According to the Puerto Rico Ports Authority, in 2011 and the first six months of 2012, approximately 8.0 million and 4.4 million passengers, respectively, travelled through the LMM Airport. The LMM Airport serves the capital of San Juan and it is 52 Table of Contents the primary gateway from Puerto Rico to international destinations and the mainland United States. The LMM Airport site covers approximately 1,300 acres of land. It does not face competition from other forms of surface transportation given its island location. The largest competing airport on the island is nearly two hours away by car from San Juan. The LMM Airport is a short driving distance from the largest hotels in Puerto Rico. The top ten hotels, which represent approximately 40% of total hotel capacity on the island, are on average within twelve miles of the LMM Airport. The LMM Airport has the capacity to handle up to 10 million enplanements annually, which is more than double its current usage. The LMM Airport is comprised of two runways and five terminals (Terminals A through E). Terminal A, which is the newest facility at the LMM Airport, opened in June 2012. Terminals B through E were constructed in various stages beginning with Terminals D and E in the late 1950s, then Terminal B in the 1980s and Terminal C in the 1990s. Terminal E is not currently in use and Aerostar plans to close Terminal D within three years to utilize the airport’s capacity more efficiently. The LMM Airport also has the largest air cargo facility in Puerto Rico. According to the Puerto Rico Ports Authority, in 2011 and the first twelve months of 2012, 380.2 million and 182.8 million pounds of cargo, respectively, were handled at the LMM Airport. As of July 2012, scheduled passenger air services at LMM Airport was provided by 20 airlines (together with regional affiliates and other partners). Eleven carriers provide cargo service to LMM Airport, led by UPS and FedEx. Over the past decade, passengers at LMM Airport traveling to and from the United States have represented approximately 75% of total passenger traffic. The LMM Airport’s passenger segments are primarily divided among leisure, visiting friends and relatives and business. Aerostar’s Operating Agreement In order to participate in the bidding process for the LMM Airport, our Cancún airport subsidiary entered into a joint venture with two of Highstar’s infrastructure funds, Highstar Capital IV, L.P. (Highstar IV) and Highstar Aerostar Prism/IV-A Holdings, L.P. (Highstar Aerostar) and created Aerostar on March 14, 2012 for the purpose of leasing, developing, operating and managing the LMM Airport pursuant to the Lease Agreement, the Airport Use Agreements and the terms of the contracts related to the LMM Airport assumed by Aerostar as of February 27, 2013. As part of Aerostar’s formation process, our Cancún airport subsidiary entered into Aerostar’s Limited Liability Company Operating Agreement with Highstar IV and Highstar Aerostar, as members, on July 11, 2012. The Operating Agreement governs the relationship between the three Aerostar members and sets out their governance, management and voting rights. The Operating Agreement prohibits any member from directly or indirectly selling, exchanging, transferring, pledging, assigning or otherwise disposing of its membership units to any person, with the exception of transfers (i) between investment funds where, following such transfer, the ownership interests remain under common ownership management or control or (ii) of shares of any member or any parent of such member that is publicly traded on a national or international stock exchange, whether or not the transfer occurs on such stock exchange. Restrictions on transfers include, among others, that (i) the proposed transferee must execute 53 Table of Contents and deliver to the management board an instrument agreeing to be bound by the terms of the Operating Agreement, (ii) each other member has been consulted as to any transferee becoming a member of Aerostar, (iii) the transferee (a) may not be a strategic airport competitor of ASUR in North America, (b) is not a North American-focused infrastructure fund, (c) is not and has not been involved in corrupt activities, (d) has not publicly stated it is insolvent, (e) is able to pay its debts as they become due and (f) has not filed for or is subject to bankruptcy and (iv) the transfer otherwise complies with the Operating Agreement. As a member of Aerostar, our Cancún airport subsidiary was required to make an initial capital contribution equivalent to its proportionate share of the Leasehold Fee required under the Lease Agreement minus any anticipated net cash proceeds of any debt financing incurred for the purpose of paying the Leasehold Fee multiplied by its membership percentage at least two business days prior to the Closing. Our Cancún airport subsidiary’s membership percentage at that time was 50%. Our Cancún airport subsidiary is not required to make any additional capital contributions to Aerostar unless it is required to do so by the Operating Agreement or all of the managers approve additional capital contributions by unanimous vote. Additionally, if (i) during the terms of either the Lease Agreement or the Airport Use Agreements Aerostar requires additional financing to meet its obligations under these agreements or to ensure that it is not insolvent, and Aerostar is not able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to the managers, or (ii) Aerostar’s President and Chief Financial Officer reasonably determine that within thirty (30) days Aerostar will not have enough working capital to meet its current expenses, and the managers fail to agree by unanimous vote that additional capital contributions are required, then the members are required to make such additional capital contributions, in proportion to their respective membership percentages, without the need for action by the managers. If the managers agree or the President and CFO determine that additional capital contributions are needed, then the members must make such contribution within seven business days after the managers make the determination. Our Cancún airport subsidiary is not entitled to receive interest on any capital contribution made to Aerostar. Our Cancún airport subsidiary is also entitled to distributions in accordance with its membership percentage, subject to the adequacy of projected cash flows after giving effect to any distribution, any capital expenditure requirements, any financial covenants contained in any financing documents or other agreements to which Aerostar is a party and the need to maintain a reasonable level of working capital for Aerostar. Aerostar’s property, business and affairs are managed by a board of managers comprised of eight managers which are appointed by the members in proportion to their respective membership units. Each member that holds at least a 12.5% interest in Aerostar is entitled to appoint, remove and replace one manager for each 12.5% interest. Accordingly, our Cancún airport subsidiary is entitled to designate four members of the board. Each member is entitled to suspend or remove any manager it appoints and to appoint another manager in its place. Other than these rights, the members do not have any right or power to take part in the management or control of Aerostar or to act for or bind Aerostar in any way. 54 Table of Contents All operating and management decisions relating to Aerostar, except for major decisions, require the approval of the majority of the votes of the managers, provided that at least one manager appointed by each member votes in the affirmative. Major decisions require the unanimous vote of Aerostar’s members. Major decisions include: (i) making calls for additional capital contributions by the members, (ii) determining the amount of cash available for distributions and approving any distributions to be made to the members, (iii) amending in a material way the Lease to operate the LMM Airport , the Airport Use Agreements governing the Signatory Airlines’ use of the LMM Airport or any financing documents to which Aerostar is a party, (iv) appointing or removing officers, including the President, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Operating Officer and setting their salary, (v) approving Aerostar’s annual budget, including the capital expenditure budget, and deviations from the set budgets by more than 5%, (vi) material borrowings from third parties and material encumbrances, (vii) affiliate transactions, or (viii) changing Aerostar’s corporate structure, business or business plans. The Operating Agreement provides that if there is a deadlock between the managers, any manager may refer the deadlock to the Chief Executive Officers of ASUR or Highstar Capital. If that person is unable to resolve the deadlock within twenty-one days of being requested to resolve the matter, then the matter will be referred to a non-binding mediation process. Finally, if the matter is not resolved through mediation within forty-five days (unless ASUR and Highstar Capital agree otherwise) after a mediator is appointed, then either member can submit the dispute to final and binding arbitration. Mexican Regulatory Framework Mexico Mexican Sources of Regulation The following are the principal laws, regulations and instruments that govern our business and the operation of our Mexican airports: · the Mexican Airport Law, enacted December 22, 1995, · the regulations to the Mexican Airport Law, enacted February 17, 2000, · the Mexican Communications Law, enacted February 19, 1940, 55 Table of Contents · the Mexican Civil Aviation Law, enacted May 12, 1995, · the Mexican Federal Duties Law, enacted December 31, 1981, · the Mexican National Assets Law, enacted May 20, 2004, and · the concessions that entitle our subsidiaries to operate our nine airports, which were granted in 1998 and amended in 1999. The Mexican Airport Law and the regulations to the Mexican Airport Law establish the general framework regulating the construction, operation, maintenance and development of Mexican airport facilities. The Mexican Airport Law’s stated intent is to promote the expansion, development and modernization of Mexico’s airport infrastructure by encouraging investment and competition. Under the Mexican Airport Law, a concession granted by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation is required to construct, operate, maintain or develop a public service airport in Mexico. A concession generally must be granted pursuant to a public bidding process, except for: (i) concessions granted to (a) entities considered part of “the federal public administration” as defined under Mexican law and (b) private companies whose principal stockholder may be a state or municipal government; (ii) concessions granted to operators of private airports (who have operated privately for five or more years) wishing to begin operating their facilities as public service airports; and (iii) complementary concessions granted to existing concession holders. Complementary concessions may be granted only under certain limited circumstances, such as where an existing concession holder can demonstrate, among other things, that the award of the complementary concession is necessary to satisfy passenger demand. In 1998, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation granted nine concessions to operate, maintain and develop the nine principal airports in Mexico’s southeast region to our subsidiaries. Because our subsidiaries were considered entities of the federal public administration at the time the concessions were granted, the concessions were awarded without a public bidding process. Each of our concessions was amended on March 19, 1999 in order, among other things, to incorporate each airport’s maximum rates and certain other terms as part of the concession. The Mexican National Assets Law among other items establishes regulations relating to concessions on real property held in the public domain, including the airports that we operate. The Mexican National Assets Law requires concessionaires of real property held in the public domain that are used for administrative or other non-public purposes to pay a tax. In addition, the Mexican National Assets Law establishes grounds for revocation of concessions for failure to pay this tax. On February 17, 2000 the regulations to the Mexican Airport Law were issued. Although we believe we are currently complying with the principal requirements of the Mexican Airport Law and its regulations, we are not in compliance with certain requirements under the regulations. These violations could result in fines or other sanctions being assessed by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, and are among the violations that could result in termination of a concession if they occur three or more times. 56 Table of Contents Role of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation The Ministry of Communications and Transportation is the principal regulator of airports in Mexico and is authorized by the Mexican Airport Law to perform the following functions: · grant, modify and revoke concessions for the operation of airports, · establish air transit rules and rules regulating take-off and landing schedules through the Mexican air traffic control authority, · take all necessary action to create an efficient, competitive and non-discriminatory market for airport-related services, · approve any transaction or transactions that directly or indirectly may result in a change of control of a concession holder, · approve the master development plans prepared by each concession holder every five years, · determine each airport’s maximum rates, · approve any agreements entered into between a concession holder and a third party providing airport or complementary services at its airport, · establish safety regulations, · monitor airport facilities to determine their compliance with the Mexican Airport Law, other applicable laws and the terms of the concessions, and · impose penalties for failure to observe and perform the rules under the Mexican Airport Law, the Mexican Airport Law regulations and the concessions. In addition, under the Mexican Organic Law of the Federal Public Administration, the Mexican Airport Law and the Mexican Civil Aviation Law, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation is required to provide air traffic control, radio assistance and aeronautical communications at Mexico’s airports. The Ministry of Communications and Transportation provides these services through SENEAM, the Mexican air traffic control authority, which is a division of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. Since 1978, the Mexican air traffic control authority has provided air traffic control for Mexico’s airports. Scope of Concessions and General Obligations of Concession Holders As authorized under the Mexican Airport Law, each of the concessions held by our subsidiaries is for an initial 50-year term from November 1, 1998. This initial term of each of our concessions may be renewed in one or more terms for up to an additional 50 years, subject to the concession holder’s acceptance of any new conditions imposed by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation and to its compliance with the terms of its concession. 57 Table of Contents The concessions held by our subsidiary concession holders allow the relevant concession holder, during the term of the concession, to: (i) operate, maintain and develop its airport and carry out any necessary construction in order to render airport, complementary and commercial services as provided under the Mexican Airport Law and the Mexican Airport Law regulations; and (ii) use and develop the assets that comprise the airport that is the subject of the concession (consisting of the airport’s real estate and improvements but excluding assets used in connection with fuel supply and storage). These assets are government-owned assets, subject to the Mexican National Assets Law. Upon expiration of a concession, these assets automatically revert to the Mexican government. Substantially all of the contracts entered into by the Mexican Airport and Auxiliary Services Agency with respect to each of our airports have been assigned to the relevant concession holder for each airport. As part of this assignment, each concession holder agreed to indemnify the Mexican Airport and Auxiliary Services Agency for any loss suffered by the Mexican Airport and Auxiliary Services Agency due to the concession holder’s breach of its obligations under an assigned agreement. Under the Mexican Federal Duties Law, each of our subsidiary concession holders is required to pay the Mexican government a concession fee based on its gross annual regulated revenues from the use of public domain assets pursuant to the terms of its concession. Currently, this concession fee is set at a rate of 5% and may be revised annually by the Mexican Congress. Our concessions provide that we may request an amendment of our maximum rates if there is a change in this concession fee. Concession holders are required to provide airport security. If public order or national security is endangered, the competent federal authorities are authorized to act to protect the safety of aircraft, passengers, cargo, mail, installations and equipment. Each concession holder and any third party providing services at an airport is required to carry specified insurance in amounts and covering specified risks, such as damage to persons and property at the airport, in each case as specified by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. To date the Ministry of Communications and Transportation has not specified the required amounts of insurance. We cannot assure you that we will not be required to obtain additional insurance once these amounts are specified. ASUR and our subsidiary concession holders are jointly and severally liable to the Ministry of Communications and Transportation for the performance of all obligations under the concessions held by our subsidiaries. Each of our subsidiary concession holders is responsible for the performance of the obligations set forth in its concession, including the obligations arising from third-party contracts, as well as for any damages to the Mexican government-owned assets that they use and to third-party airport users. In the event of a breach of one concession, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation is authorized to revoke all of the concessions held by our subsidiaries. The shares of a concession holder and the rights under a concession may be subject to a lien only with the approval of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. No agreement documenting liens approved by the Ministry of Communications and 58 Table of Contents Transportation may allow the beneficiary of a pledge to become a concession holder under any circumstances. A concession holder may not assign any of its rights or obligations under its concession without the authorization of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. The Ministry of Communications and Transportation is authorized to consent to an assignment only if the proposed assignee satisfies the requirements to be a concession holder under the Mexican Airport Law, undertakes to comply with the obligations under the relevant concession and agrees to any other conditions that the Ministry may require. Classification of Services Provided at Airports The Mexican Airport Law and the Mexican Airport Law regulations classify the services that may be rendered at an airport into the following three categories: · Airport Services. Airport services may be rendered only by the holder of a concession or a third party that has entered into an agreement with the concession holder to provide such services. These services include: —the use of airport runways, taxiways and aprons for landing, aircraft parking and departure, —the use of hangars, passenger walkways, transport buses and automobile parking facilities, —the provision of airport security services, rescue and firefighting services, ground traffic control, lighting and visual aids, —the general use of terminal space and other infrastructure by aircraft, passengers and cargo, and —the provision of access to an airport to third parties providing complementary services (as defined in the Mexican Airport Law) and third parties providing permanent ground transport services (such as taxis). · Complementary Services. Complementary services may be rendered by an airline, by the airport operator or by a third party under agreements with airlines or the airport operator. These services include: —ramp and handling services, —passenger check-in, and —aircraft security, catering, cleaning, maintenance, repair and fuel supply and related activities that provide support to air carriers. · Commercial Services. Commercial services involve services that are not considered essential to the operation of an airport or aircraft, and include: —the leasing of space to retailers, restaurants and banks and —advertising. Third parties rendering airport, complementary or commercial services are required to do so pursuant to a written agreement with the relevant concession holder. All agreements relating to airport or complementary services are required to be approved by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. The Mexican Airport Law provides that the concession holder is jointly liable with these third parties for compliance with the terms of the relevant concession with respect to the services provided by such third parties. All third-party service providers of complementary services are required to be corporations incorporated under Mexican law. Airport and complementary services are required to be provided to all users in a uniform and regular manner, without discrimination as to quality, access or price. Concession holders are required to provide airport and complementary services on a 59 Table of Contents priority basis to military aircraft, disaster support aircraft and aircraft experiencing emergencies. Airport and complementary services are required to be provided at no cost to military aircraft and aircraft performing national security activities. In the event of force majeure, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation may impose additional regulations governing the provision of services at airports, but only to the extent necessary to address the force majeure event. The Mexican Airport Law allows the airport administrator appointed by a concession holder to suspend the provision of airport services in the event of force majeure. A concession holder is also required to take all necessary measures to create a competitive market for complementary services. Due to space, efficiency and safety considerations, a concession holder may limit the number of providers of complementary services in its airport. If the number of complementary service providers must be limited due to these considerations, contracts for the provision of complementary services must be awarded through a competitive bidding process. Master Development Plans Concession holders are also required to submit to the Ministry of Communications and Transportation a master development plan describing, among other things, the concession holder’s construction and maintenance plans. Each master development plan is for a fifteen-year period and is required to be updated every five years and resubmitted for approval to the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. Upon such approval, the master development plan is deemed to constitute a part of the relevant concession. Any major construction, renovation or expansion of an airport may only be made pursuant to a concession holder’s master development plan or upon approval by the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. Information required to be presented in the master development plan includes: · airport growth and development expectancies, · fifteen-year projections for air traffic demand (including passenger, cargo and operations), · construction, conservation, maintenance, expansion and modernization programs for infrastructure, facilities and equipment, · five-year detailed investment program and planned major investments for the following ten years, · probable sources of financing, · descriptive airport plans, and · environmental protection measures. 60 Table of Contents The concessions require the concession holder to engage recognized independent consultants to conduct polls among airport users with respect to current and expected quality standards, and to prepare air traffic projections and investment requirements. The concession holder must submit a draft of the master development plan to airport users for their review and comments. Further, the concession holder must submit the master development plan to the Ministry of Communications and Transportation prior to the expiration of the five-year term. The Ministry of Communications and Transportation may request additional information or clarification as well as seek further comments from airport users. Changes to a master development plan and investment program require the approval of the Ministry of Communications and Transportation, except for emergency repairs and minor works that do not adversely affect an airport’s operations. On March 31, 2009, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation approved our current master development plans. The current terms of the updated master development plans were effective as of January 1, 2009, and will be in effect until December 31, 2013. The following table sets forth our committed investments for the regulated part of our business for each airport pursuant to the terms of our current master development plans for the periods presented. Even though we have committed to invest the amounts in the table, those amounts could be lower or higher depending on the cost of each project. Committed Investments Committed Investments Year ended December 31, Airport 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Totals (millions of constant pesos as of December 31, 2012)(1) Cancún Ps. 663.0 (2) Ps. 711.9 (2) Ps. 483.6 (2) Ps. 509.9 Ps. 381.2 Ps. 2,749.6 Cozumel 19.9 47.9 16.2 38.4 11.6 134.0 Huatulco 60.2 172.0 80.2 67.6 11.2 391.2 Mérida 85.7 143.9 83.0 18.6 6.9 338.1 Minatitlán 23.4 28.4 7.5 4.1 4.4 67.8 Oaxaca 54.8 158.4 70.6 48.4 20.3 352.5 Tapachula 8.6 6.5 5.4 2.8 45.1 68.4 Veracruz 54.8 94.8 102.7 33.3 126.0 411.6 Villahermosa 52.3 102.7 67.8 34.6 14.4 271.8 Total Ps. 1,022.7 Ps. 1,466.5 Ps. 917.0 Ps. 757.7 Ps. 621.1 Ps. 4,785.0 (1) Based on the Mexican construction price index in accordance with the terms of our master development plan. (2) Prior to December 31, 2008, we invested a total of Ps.1,667.7 million in the construction of Terminal 3 and the construction of the second runway at Cancún International Airport. As a result, the Ministry of Communications has applied Ps.1,054.8 million of this amount to the satisfaction of our committed investments at Cancún International Airport for 2009 through 2013, of which approximately Ps.211 million was allocated to each calendar year. The amounts reflected above are the total amount of committed investments, and do not include deductions for these amounts. 61 Table of Contents The following table sets forth our committed and indicative investments for the regulated part of our business for each airport pursuant to the terms of our current master development plans for the periods presented. Committed Investments Indicative Investments Airport January 1, 2009 – December 31, 2013 January 1, 2014 – December 31, 2018 January 1, 2019 – December 31, 2023 (millions of constant pesos as of December 31, 2012)(1) Cancún Ps. 2,749.6 (2) Ps. 1,375.5 (2) Ps. 904.4 (2) Cozumel 134.0 138.4 102.1 Huatulco 391.2 82.0 54.8 Mérida 338.1 142.9 94.0 Minatitlán 67.8 68.2 41.8 Oaxaca 352.5 76.5 96.9 Tapachula 68.4 47.8 23.4 Veracruz 411.6 299.8 323.8 Villahermosa 271.8 63.9 66.1 Total Ps. 4,785.0 Ps. 2,295.0 Ps. 1,707.3 _________________________ (1) Based on the Mexican construction price index in accordance with the terms of our master development plan. (2) Prior to December 31, 2008, we invested a total of Ps.1,667.7 million in the construction of Terminal 3 and the construction of the second runway at Cancún International Airport. As a result, the Ministry of Communications has applied Ps.1,054.8 million of this amount to the satisfaction of our committed investments at Cancún International Airport for 2009 through 2013, and Ps.612.9 million to the satisfaction of our indicative investments for 2014 through 2018. The amounts reflected above are the total amount of committed and indicative investments, and do not include deductions for these amounts. The master development plans and maximum rates for each airport were approved before the announcement of the concession and construction of the Mayan Riviera Airport project, which was included in the National Infrastructure Plan for 2007-2012. Because of this timing, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation did not account for how the eventual construction, administration and operation of the Mayan Riviera Airport, and the beginning of flight operations there, may affect passenger traffic levels for Cancún airport. Accordingly, the Ministry of Communications and Transportation has committed to modify the master development plans for our airports within three months from the granting of a concession to operate the Mayan Riviera Airport so as to reflect new passenger traffic level projections, and accordingly, to adjust the investment obligations and maximum rates that we are authorized to charge at each airport. We are currently negotiating a new National Infrastructure Plan for 2013-2018. However, we cannot predict what effects operations at the Mayan Riviera Airport will have on our passenger traffic levels, how the Ministry of Communications and Transportation will adjust our master development plans or whether the Ministry of Communications and Transportation will account for how the eventual construction, administration and operation of the Mayan Riviera Airport, and the beginning of flight operations there, may affect passenger traffic levels for Cancún airport in the new plan. Price Regulation The Mexican Airport Law provides that the Ministry of Communications and Transportation may establish price regulations for services for which the Competition Commission determines that a competitive market does not exist. On March 9, 1999, the Competition Commission issued a ruling stating that competitive markets generally do not exist for airport services and airport access provided to third parties rendering complementary services. This ruling authorized the Ministry of Communications and Transportation to establish regulations governing the prices that may be charged for airport services and access fees that may be charged to providers of complementary services in our airports. On March 19, 1999, a new regulation, the Rate Regulation, was 62 Table of Contents incorporated within the terms of each of our concessions. The Rate Regulation, which became effective May 1, 1999, establishes the annual maximum rates for each of our concession holders, which is the maximum amount of revenue per workload unit (one passenger or 100 kilograms (220 pounds) of cargo) in a given year that the concession holder may earn at its airports from all regulated revenue sources. Regulated Revenues The Rate Regulation establishes a “dual-till” system of price regulation under which certain of our revenues, such as passenger charges, landing charges, aircraft parking charges and access fees from third parties providing complementary services at our airports, are regulated, while the revenues that we earn from commercial activities in our terminals, such as the leasing of space to duty-free stores, retailers, restaurants, car rental companies and banks, are not regulated. The Rate Regulation provides that the following sources of revenues are regulated under this “dual-till” system: · revenues from airport services (as defined under the Mexican Airport Law), other than automobile parking, and · access fees earned from third parties providing complementary services, other than those related to the establishment of administrative quarters that the Ministry of Communications and Transportation determines to be non-essential. All other sources of revenues at our airports are not regulated. Approximately 57.2% and 58.3% of our revenues in 2011 and 2012, respectively, were derived from regulated sources of revenue. Each concession holder is entitled to determine the prices charged for each regulated service and is required to register such prices with the Ministry of Communications and Transportation. Once registered, those prices are deemed part of its concession, and may only be changed every six months or earlier if there has been a cumulative increase of at least 5% in the Mexican producer price index (excluding petroleum) as published by the Mexican Central Bank since the date of the last adjustment and in other specific circumstances. See “