Risk Factors As of March 31, 2008, our shares have been delisted from the NYSE. See “Delisting from the NYSE and Deregistration from the SEC” at the beginning of this annual report. The sporting goods industry is highly competitive and our success depends upon our ability to respond quickly to changes in consumer preferences. 4 The sporting goods industry is highly competitive and includes many regional, national and international companies, some of which have achieved substantial market share. We compete primarily on the basis of product features, brand recognition, quality and price, and the failure to remain competitive could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Some of our competitors offer types of sports products that we do not sell, and some of our competitors are larger and have substantially greater financial and other resources than us. Our success also depends partly on our ability to anticipate and respond quickly to changing merchandise trends, consumer taste and consumer preferences. Any failure to so respond could adversely affect consumer acceptance of our brand names and product lines and could harm our business. Changes in the tastes of the sporting public affect the demand for our products, and in recent years, we have observed a declining interest in skiing and tennis. In recent years we have observed declining demand overall in the global ski and tennis markets. An estimated 6.5 million pairs of skis were sold per year worldwide in the late 1980’s, whereas approximately 4.1 million pairs were sold in 2006. In 2007, approximately 3.0 million pairs were sold. New trends like the Park & Pipe skis could stabilize demand, and snowboard sales have developed from approximately 0.8 million boards sold in 1995 to a peak of approximately 1.6 million in 2000, and approximately 1.2 million sold in 2006. In 2007, approximately 1.0 million snowboards were sold. The general decline in demand in the tennis market has been observed since the period of peak demand in the early 1990’s. We believe this decline is due to competing leisure activities, including computer games and the Internet. We and the sporting goods industry in general are dependent on the tastes of the sporting public and its priorities in spending on leisure activities. A further decrease in interest in skiing and tennis would cause a decline in the size of the markets from which we derive most of our sales and could thus cause a decline in our revenues and consolidated operating results. Our failure to introduce innovative products to the market could adversely affect our sales and margins. Our success is dependent in part on our introduction of innovative products that represent an improvement over existing products that we or other manufacturers offer. We believe that our future growth and success will depend significantly on our continued ability to identify, develop, introduce and market innovative sports products such as our Head Intelligence skis and snowboard equipment, our Head Titanium, Head Intelligence, Head Liquidmetal, Head Metallix and Head Microgel series of tennis racquets, and our Mares line of diving equipment. However, we cannot assure you that our product innovations will lead to improved business or financial performance. Our operating results may fluctuate as a result of the amount, timing and market acceptance of new products that we or our competitors introduce. In addition, our failure to introduce new, innovative products will adversely affect our margins because margins on the sales of sports products tend to decline over time with the entry of competitive products into existing markets. Economic conditions, weather and other factors beyond our control have caused and could continue to cause a decline in demand for our products. We and the sporting goods industry in general are dependent on the economies in which we sell our products, and in particular on levels of consumer spending. Economic conditions affect not only the ultimate consumer, but also retailers, our primary direct customers. As a result, our results may be adversely affected by downward trends in the economies in which we sell our products. Adverse weather also can cause a significant decline in our sales, as in 2007 when the poor snow conditions globally during the 2006/2007 season substantially reduced revenues for our Winter Sports products and negatively impacted our consolidated operating results. In addition, the occurrence of events that adversely affect economies or international tourism, such as terrorism or regional instability, continue to adversely affect leisure travel and related discretionary consumer spending, which can have a particularly negative impact on our diving business. Shifts in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. We operate in a multi-currency environment in which a portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the euro. Approximately 32% of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars in 2007. As a result, we are subject to currency translation risk and, to a lesser extent, currency transaction risk. Currency translation risk arises because we measure and record the financial condition and results of operations of each of our subsidiaries in their functional currency and then translate these amounts into our reporting currency, the euro. We incur transaction risk when one of our subsidiaries enters into a transaction using a currency other than its functional currency, although we reduce this risk by seeking, when possible, to match our revenues and costs in each currency. We also hedge part of our firm commitments for sales to Japan, United Kingdom, Switzerland and Canada. Accordingly, shifts in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. See “Item 5.A. – Operating Results – Factors Affecting Revenues”. We are dependent in part on the performance of third-party suppliers, which may cause delays in filling orders, affect the quality of some products or affect the image of our trademarks. Some of our key products are produced in single locations. As a result of our business rationalization and cost reduction efforts, we outsource a substantial portion of our manufacturing to third parties in Europe, such as in Austria (snowboards), Czech Republic (binding assembly), Italy and Bulgaria (diving products), and in Asia, such as in China (tennis racquets, badminton products, accessories, snowboards, snowboard bindings, snowboard boots, 5 helmets, body protection) and Thailand (diving products). Approximately 38% of our cost of sales in 2007 consisted of fees paid to third-party manufacturers. Furthermore, a substantial number of our third party licensees, who produce apparel and other products under the Head brand, outsource their manufacturing to third parties. As a result of this outsourcing, we, as well as our third party licensees, are dependent in part on the performance of third-party suppliers in order to deliver quality products in a timely manner. We and our licensees are also increasingly subject to risks relating to the local economic and political conditions in the countries to which we outsource our manufacturing operations. Although these factors have not had an adverse impact on our operations to date, we cannot assure you that they will not affect quality control, orders and shipments, or the image of our trademark in the case of licensees. In addition, we and our third-party manufacturers produce certain of our key products, such as ski boots and tennis racquets, at single production sites, exposing us to the risk that major incidents at such sites, such as fire or earthquake damage, could substantially reduce or halt production. In the event we are required to shift the manufacturing of some of our products from one geographical location, or from one contract manufacturer, to another, our ability to fulfill orders and our cost of sales may be adversely affected, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We are dependent on patents and trademarks, and inadequate protection of our patents and trademarks, or patent or trademark litigation, could adversely affect our business. We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and confidentiality agreements to protect our proprietary technology, rights and know-how. We hold several hundred patents and trademarks, several of which are filed in multiple jurisdictions, including Europe, the United States and Asia. Our major trademarks are registered in our key markets and numerous other countries. We believe our patents and trademarks to be among our most valuable marketing assets and generally seek protection for them in countries where significant existing or potential markets for our products exist. We believe we have taken adequate measures to protect our proprietary information, trade names and trademarks in all our major markets, although not all our trade names and trademarks are proprietary to us for all of our products in all our markets. For example, we do not own the trademark “Liquidmetal” but rather license the name pursuant to an agreement we have with Liquidmetal Technologies, Inc. This agreement had an initial term of four years commencing January 1, 2003, and the parties agreed to extend the agreement under similar terms to December 31, 2011. We cannot assure you that the measures we (or our licensors from whom we license patents and trademarks) take to protect our intellectual property will afford us adequate protection against patent and trademark infringements, that pending patent and trademark applications will eventually be issued or that the claims allowed for any of our existing or future patents and trademarks will provide competitive advantages for our products or will not be successfully challenged or circumvented by competitors. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to license names for which we do not currently hold trademarks, such as “Liquidmetal”, under the same terms as our existing license agreements or at all. In the United States, patent applications are maintained in secrecy for a period after filing and the right to a patent is given to the first to invent, not the first to file, a patent application. We cannot be sure that our products or technologies do not infringe patents that may be granted in the future under pending patent applications, or that our products do not infringe any patents or proprietary rights of third parties. The validity and enforceability of third party claims could prevent us from selling our products or could require us to obtain licenses from the owners of these patents or to redesign our products to avoid infringements. We cannot assure you that we could accomplish any of these alternatives successfully, and our inability to do so if necessary could adversely affect our business. In addition, we cannot assure you that our employees and third parties with whom we have entered into confidentiality agreements will respect these obligations, or that our competitors will not use our trade secrets or proprietary information. In addition, the laws of some countries do not protect our products and intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or Europe. Litigation may be necessary to defend against claims of infringement, to enforce our patents or trademarks, or to protect trade secrets and could result in substantial costs to us. We cannot assure you that we would prevail in these types of litigation. Environmental regulations by European Union, national and local regulatory bodies could adversely affect our business. Our operations are subject to European Union, United States, Chinese and other national and local laws governing, among other things, water pollution, air pollution, noise pollution and hazardous substance discharges. We believe that our business, operations and facilities have been and are being operated in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental and health and safety laws. However, the operation of manufacturing plants entails risks in these areas. As a result, we cannot assure you that we will not incur material costs or liabilities. In addition, we could incur significant costs in order to comply with any future European Union, national or local environmental and health and safety laws that may be adopted, or to respond to stricter interpretations or stricter enforcement of existing laws in the future. We have product liability exposure resulting from the use of our products. Some of our products are used in relatively high-risk recreational settings, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting product liability claims relating to our sporting goods products. To date, none of these lawsuits has had a material adverse effect on us, and we do not believe that any lawsuit now pending could reasonably be expected to have such an effect. We maintain product liability and general liability insurance coverage. No assurances can be given that such insurance will continue to be available at an acceptable cost or that such coverage will be sufficient to cover one or more large claims, or that the insurers will not 6 successfully disclaim coverage as to a pending or future claim. Changes in income tax law in Austria and in other countries have affected, and in the future may again affect, our net income dramatically; additionally, as a result of applicable accounting rules, we may be required to write-down a portion of our deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2007, we recognized €69.5 million of deferred tax assets, mainly on Austrian tax losses carried forwards. We believe it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized. Austria and some other countries allow an unlimited carryover of net operating losses. However, a change in income tax law lowering the applicable tax rate could occur, as it did in 2004 in Austria and in 2007 in Germany, requiring us to write down €20.2 million of our deferred tax assets in 2004 and €1.4 million in 2007. Such a write-down has caused a significant income tax expense and negatively affected our net income, and may occur again in the future. In addition, as a result of applicable accounting rules, we may be required to consider when we will be able to use our tax loss carry-forwards to offset taxable income and may, as a consequence, be required to write-down a portion of our deferred tax assets. In the event such a write-down is necessary under applicable accounting rules, it could significantly increase our deferred tax expense and negatively affect our net income. We may be affected by raw material and energy price increases. Our production is dependent on the timely availability of certain raw materials whose prices are driven by the oil and steel price development on the world market. Such raw materials are used in manufacturing, among other items, plastic components for bindings, ski boots and diving fins, carbon-fibers for racquets and metal parts for binding components and ski edges. Changing raw material prices historically have had a material impact on our earnings and cash flows, and are likely to continue to have a significant impact on earnings and cash flows in future periods. Historically, we generally have not been able to pass on to our customers increases in costs resulting from raw material and energy prices, and have sought other means, particularly through the restructuring of our production processes, to maintain operating margins. See “Item 5.A. – Operating Results – Factors Affecting Expenses”. We are indirectly controlled by one shareholder whose interests may conflict with yours. Head Sports Holdings N.V, and its shareholders controlled 19,825,966 shares, or approximately 49.8% of our issued shares, as of March 31, 2008. Head Sports Holdings N.V., a Netherlands Antilles corporation, and its shareholders are controlled by Johan Eliasch and his family members. Head Sports Holdings N.V. has the power to approve the nominations of our executive officers, approve the proposed actions of the Supervisory and Management Boards, change our core business, cause us to engage in transactions with affiliated companies, cause or restrict the sale of our assets, control our dividend policy and make other fundamental corporate decisions. The business of Head N.V. is carried out primarily by a Management Board, which appoints our executive officers, and is overseen by a Supervisory Board. Under Head N.V.’s articles of association, a Dutch foundation called the Stichting Head Option Plan has the power to nominate all members of the Management Board, appoint one-third of the Supervisory Board and nominate the remaining members of the Supervisory Board. The Board of the Stichting is controlled by Head Sports Holdings N.V., the entity controlled by Johan Eliasch and his family members, jointly with Johan Eliasch. The special power of the Stichting ceases when Johan Eliasch or his affiliates or family members cease to control the Stichting or cease to beneficially hold any of Head N.V.’s shares. In general, a two-thirds majority of shareholders voting at a general meeting of shareholders may remove members of the Management and Supervisory Boards, and the articles of association, including the rights of the Stichting, also may be amended (at the proposal of the Management Board and with approval of the Supervisory Board) by a two-thirds majority of shareholders. Therefore, as a result of his control over the Stichting, Johan Eliasch will retain the power to nominate and essentially control the election of the Management and Supervisory Board members and other executive officers so long as he holds any of Head N.V.’s shares until there is an amendment to the articles of association to remove the rights of the Stichting. As a result of our decision to delist our shares from the New York Stock Exchange, it is no longer possible to trade our shares on a national market in the United States. If we are unable to deregister our shares from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, we will continue to bear related management and financial costs. At our Annual General Meeting in May, 2005, our shareholders authorized the Management Board to apply for a delisting from the New York Stock Exchange and to terminate the “Common Share Agreement” between The Bank of New York and us. On March 10, 2008, we announced our intention to delist our shares. On March 21, 2008, we filed a Form 25 with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”). The delisting from the NYSE became effective on March 31, 2008 and as of this date it is no longer possible to trade our shares on a national market in the United States. In addition, the delisting from the New York Stock Exchange will be followed by the deregistration of our shares from the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, if possible under applicable regulations. See “Delisting from the NYSE and Deregistration from the SEC” at the beginning of this annual report. Although we intend to deregister our ordinary shares from the SEC, we may not be able to deregister if the conditions required for deregistration under SEC 7 rules are not satisfied. In the event we are not able to deregister, we will continue to be required to comply with the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to publicly held companies, and hence bear the related management and financial costs. ITEM 