D. RISK FACTORS Risks Relating to Our Business Operation We are exposed to risks associated with price fluctuations of crude oil and refined petroleum products. We consume a large amount of crude oil to produce our refined petroleum products and petrochemical products. Increases in crude oil prices may result in cost inflation, and high prices may also reduce demand for our products which might adversely affect our profitability. Decreases in crude oil and refined product prices may cause us to incur impairment to our investment and assets. A prolonged period of oil price drop may impact our profit and ability to maintain our long-term investment projects. In addition, while we try to adjust the sale prices of our products to track international crude oil price fluctuations, our ability to pass on the increased cost resulting from crude oil price increases to our customers may be limited, and is dependent on international and domestic market conditions as well as the PRC government’s price control policies over refined petroleum products. For instance, the PRC government could exercise price control over refined petroleum products when international crude oil prices experience a sustained rise or become significantly volatile. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially affected by the fluctuation of crude oil and refined petroleum product prices. Our continued business success depends in part on our ability to replace reserves and develop newly discovered reserves. Our ability to achieve our growth objectives is dependent in part on our level of success in discovering or acquiring additional oil and natural gas reserves. Our exploration and development activities for additional reserves also expose us to inherent risks associated with drilling, including the risk that no proved oil or natural gas reservoirs might be discovered. Exploring for, developing and acquiring reserves is highly risky and capital intensive. The fluctuation in the prices of crude oil and natural gas will impact the base of our proved oil or natural gas reserves. Without reserve additions through further exploration and development or acquisition activities, or if the prices of crude oil and natural gas fall sharply, our reserves and production will decline over time, which may materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 11 We rely heavily on outside suppliers for crude oil and other raw materials, and we may even experience disruption of our ability to obtain crude oil and other raw materials. We purchase a significant portion of crude oil and other feedstock from outside suppliers located in different countries and regions in the world. In 2014, approximately 82.5% of the crude oil required for our refinery business was sourced from international suppliers, and an insignificant amount is from countries or regions that are on the sanction list published and administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC, of the US Department of Treasury, including Iran and Sudan. In addition, our development requires us to source an increasing amount of crude oil from outside suppliers. We are subject to the political, geographical and economic risks associated with these countries and areas. If one or more of our material supply contracts were terminated or disrupted due to any natural disasters or political events, it is possible that we would not be able to find sufficient alternative sources of supply in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms. As a result, our business and financial condition would be materially and adversely affected. Our business faces operation risks and natural disasters that may cause significant property damages, personal injuries and interruption of operations, and we may not have sufficient insurance coverage for all the financial losses incurred by us. Exploring for, producing and transporting crude oil and natural gas and producing and transporting refined oil products and chemical products involves a number of operating hazards. Our operations are subject to significant hazards and risks inherent in refining operations and in transporting and storing crude oil, intermediate products and refined oil products. These hazards and risks include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, fires, explosions, pipeline ruptures and spills, third-party interference and mechanical failure of equipment at our or third-party facilities, any of which could result in production and distribution difficulties and disruptions, environmental pollution, personal injury or wrongful death claims and other damage to our properties and the property of others. There is also risk of mechanical failure and equipment shutdowns both in general and following unforeseen events. In such situations, undamaged refinery processing units may be dependent on or interact with damaged process units and, accordingly, are also subject to being shut down. Even though we have a strong institutional focus on the safety of our operations and have implemented health, safety and environment (“HSE”) management system within our company with the view to preventing accidents, and reducing personal injuries, property losses and environment pollution, our preventative measures may not be effective. We also maintain insurance coverage on our property, plant, equipment and inventory, but our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover all the financial losses caused by the operation risks and natural disasters. Significant operating hazards and natural disasters may cause interruption to our operations, property or environmental damages as well as personal injuries, and each of these incidents could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The oil and natural gas reserves data in this annual report are only estimates, and our actual production, revenues and expenditures with respect to our reserves may differ materially from these estimates. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proved oil and natural gas reserves, and in the timing of development expenditures and the projection of future rates of production. Adverse changes in economic conditions may render it uneconomical to develop certain reserves. Our actual production, revenues, taxes and fees payable and development and operating expenditures with respect to our reserves may likely vary from these estimates. The reliability of reserves estimates depends on: · the quality and quantity of technical and economic data; · the prevailing oil and gas prices applicable to our production; · the production performance of the reservoirs; and · extensive engineering judgments. In addition, new drilling, testing and production results following the estimates may cause substantial upward or downward revisions in the estimates. 12 Oilfield exploration and drilling involves numerous risks, including risks that no commercially productive crude oil or natural gas reserves can be discovered and risks of failure to acquire or retain reserves. Our oil and gas business is currently involved in exploration activities in various regions, including in some areas where natural conditions may be challenging and where the costs of such exploration activities may be high. As a result, our oil and gas business may incur cost overruns or may be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of many factors, including, but not limited to, the following: · unexpected drilling conditions; · pressure or irregularities in geological formations; · equipment failures or accidents; · oil well blowouts; · adverse weather conditions or natural disasters; · compliance with existing or enhanced environmental regulations; · governmental requirements and standards; or · delays in the availability of drilling rigs and delivery and maintenance of equipment. The future production of our oil and gas business depends significantly upon our success in finding or acquiring additional reserves and retaining and developing such reserves. If our oil and gas business fails to conduct successful exploration activities or to acquire or retain assets holding proved reserves, it may not meet its production or growth targets, and its proved reserves will decline as it extracts crude oil and natural gas from the existing reservoirs, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have been actively pursuing business opportunities outside China to supplement our domestic resources. However, there can be no assurance that we can successfully locate sufficient alternative sources of crude oil supply or at all due to the complexity of the international political, economic and other conditions. If we fail to obtain sufficient alternative sources of crude oil supply, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Our exploration, development and production activities and our refining and petrochemical business require substantial expenditure and investments and our plans for and ability to make such expenditures and investments are subject to various risks. Exploring, developing and producing crude oil and natural gas fields are capital-intensive activities involving a high degree of risk. Our ability to undertake exploration, development and production activities and make the necessary capital expenditures and investments is subject to many risks, contingencies and other uncertainties, which may prevent our oil and gas business from achieving the desired results, or which may significantly increase the expenditures and investments that our oil and gas business makes, including, but not limited to, the following: · ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to finance its expenditures, investments and other requirements, which are affected by changes in crude oil and natural gas prices and other factors; · availability and terms of external financing; · mix of exploration and development activities conducted on an independent basis and those conducted jointly with other partners; · extent to which its ability to influence or adjust plans for exploration and development related expenditures is limited under joint operating agreements for those projects in which it has partners; · government approvals required for exploration and development-related expenditures and investments in jurisdictions in which it conducts business; and · economic, political and other conditions in jurisdictions in which it conducts business. 13 We intend to expand our exploration and production activities and, from time to time, construct new and/or revamp existing refining and petrochemical facilities, which require substantial capital expenditures and investments, there can be no assurance that the cash generated by our operations will be sufficient to fund these development plans or that our actual future capital expenditures and investments will not significantly exceed our current planned amounts. Our inability to obtain sufficient funding for development plans could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our development projects and production activities involve many uncertainties and operating risks that can prevent us from realizing profits and cause substantial losses. Our development projects and production activities may be curtailed, delayed or cancelled for many reasons, including equipment shortages or failures, natural hazards, unexpected drilling conditions or reservoir characteristics, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, accidents, mechanical and technical difficulties and industrial action. These projects and activities, which include projects focused on non-conventional oil and gas exploration and development, will also often require the use of new and advanced technologies, which may be expensive to develop, purchase and implement, and may not function as expected. There is a risk that development projects that we undertake may not yield adequate returns. In addition, our development projects and production activities, particularly those in remote areas, could become less profitable, or unprofitable, if we experience a prolonged period of low oil or gas prices or cost overruns. Our business may be adversely affected by actions and regulations prompted by global climate changes. As the international society has reach consensus on the importance and urgency of addressing climate change, the oil and gas industry in which we operate is drawing increasing concerns about global climate change in recent years. A number of international, national and regional measures to limit greenhouse gas emissions have been enacted. The implementation of such measures in a number of countries and other potential legislation limiting emissions could affect the global demand for fossil fuels. If China or other countries in which we operate or desire to operate enact new laws that focus on limiting greenhouse gas emissions, it could result in substantial capital expenditure from compliance with these laws, and revenue generation and strategic growth opportunities could also be adversely impacted. In November 2014, China and the United States made joint announcement against the threat of climate change, whereby China undertook to peak CO2 emissions around 2030 or earlier if possible, and to increase the non-fossil fuel share of all energy to around 20 percent by 2030. Following the pledge, the National Development and Reform Commission of China (“NDRC”) adopted the Provisional Measures on the Management of Carbon Emission Trading on December 10, 2014, with the aim of fully implementing the whole China-wide greenhouse gas emissions trading market from 2016. As a result, a majority of our subsidiaries operating in China may be subject to mandatory emissions trading and required to obtain emission quota, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our overseas businesses may be adversely affected by changes of overseas government policies and business environment. We have operations and assets and may seek new opportunities in various countries and regions, including countries in Africa, South America and Central Asia and certain other regions, some of which are deemed to be subject to a high degree of political risk. These countries have experienced and/or may experience in future political instability, changes to the regulatory environment, changes in taxation and foreign exchange controls, frequent disease outbreaks and deterioration in social security. Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or curtail our operations or development activities. These may in turn cause production to decline, limit our ability to pursue new opportunities, affect the recoverability of our assets or cause us to incur additional costs, particularly due to the long-term nature of many of our projects and significant capital expenditure required. We may be classified as a passive foreign investment company for United States federal income tax purposes, which could result in adverse United States federal income tax consequences to United States investors in the H shares or ADSs. Depending upon the value of our assets, which may be determined based, in part, on the market price of our H shares or ADSs, and the nature of our assets and income over time, we could be classified as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for United States federal income tax purposes. Based on our current income and assets and the market price of our H shares or ADSs, we do not expect to be classified as a PFIC for the current taxable year or in the foreseeable future. Because PFIC status is a factual determination made annually after the close of each taxable year on the basis of the composition of our income and the value of our active versus passive assets for that year, there can be no assurance that we will not be a PFIC for the current taxable year or any future taxable year. The overall level of our passive assets will be affected by how, and how quickly, we spend our liquid assets. Under circumstances where gross income from activities 14 that produce passive income significantly increase relative to our gross income from activities that produce non-passive income or where we determine not to deploy significant amounts of cash for active purposes, our risk of becoming classified as a PFIC may substantially increase. If we were to be or become classified as a PFIC, a US Holder (as defined in “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation – United States Federal Income Tax Considerations”) may incur significantly increased United States income tax on gain recognized on the sale or other disposition of the H shares or ADSs and on the receipt of distributions on the H shares or ADSs to the extent such gain or distribution is treated as an “excess distribution” under the United States federal income tax rules. For more information see “Item 10. Additional Information – E. Taxation— United States Federal Income Tax Considerations—Passive Foreign Investment Company Rules.” Risks Relating to Our Industry Our operations may be adversely affected by the global and domestic economic conditions. Our results of operations are materially affected by economic conditions in China and elsewhere around the world. Although nations around the world have adopted various economic policies to mitigate the negative influences caused by factors such as the slowdown of world economic development and the European financial crisis, it is uncertain how soon the world economy can be fully recovered. Our operations may also be adversely affected by factors such as some countries’ trade protection policies which may affect the export and some regional trade agreements which may affect the import. Our operations may be adversely affected by the cyclical nature of the market. Most of our revenues are attributable to sales of refined petroleum products and petrochemical products, and certain of these businesses and related products have historically been cyclical and sensitive to a number of factors that are beyond our control. These factors include the availability and prices of feedstock and general economic conditions, such as changes in industry capacity and output levels, cyclical changes in regional and global economic conditions, prices and availability of substitute products and changes in consumer demand. Although we are an integrated company with upstream, midstream and downstream businesses, we have limited ability to mitigate the adverse influence of the cyclicality of global markets. We face strong competition from domestic and foreign competitors. Among our competitors, some are major integrated petroleum and petrochemical companies within and outside China, which have recently become more significant participants in the petroleum and petrochemical industry in China. On December 4, 2006, Ministry of Commerce of the PRC promulgated the “Administrative Rules for Crude Oil Market” and “Administrative Rules for Refined Petroleum Products Market”, which open the wholesale market of crude oil and refined petroleum products to new market entrants. As a result, we face more competition in both crude oil and refined petroleum product markets. We also expect to face competition in both domestic and international petrochemical product market as a result of our domestic and international competitors’ increasing production capacity. Increased competition may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Controlling Shareholder We engage in related party transactions with Sinopec Group from time to time which may create potential conflict of interest. We have engaged from time to time and will continue to engage in a variety of transactions with Sinopec Group, which provides us with a number of services, including, but not limited to, ancillary supply, engineering, maintenance, transport, lease of land use right, lease of buildings, as well as educational and community services. The nature of our transactions with Sinopec Group is governed by a number of service and other contracts between Sinopec Group and us. We have established various schemes in those agreements so that these transactions, when entered into, are under terms that are at arm’s length. However, we cannot assure you that Sinopec Group Company or any of its members would not take actions that may favor its interests or its other subsidiaries’ interests over ours. We are controlled by Sinopec Group Company, our ultimate controlling shareholder, whose interest in certain businesses compete or are likely to compete with our business. Sinopec Group Company has interests in certain businesses, such as oil refining, petrochemical producing and overseas exploration and development, which compete or are likely to compete, either directly or indirectly, with our businesses. To avoid the adverse effects brought by the competition between us and Sinopec Group Company to the 15 maximum extent possible, we and Sinopec Group Company have entered into a non-competition agreement. In 2012, we received from Sinopec Group Company an undertaking to avoid its competition with us. For details, please refer to the descriptions under “Item 7. Major Shareholders and Related Party Transactions – A. Major Shareholders”. Notwithstanding the foregoing contractual arrangements, because Sinopec Group Company is our controlling shareholder, Sinopec Group Company may take actions that may conflict with our own interests. It is possible that the current or future activities of our ultimate controlling shareholder, Sinopec Group Company, or its affiliates in or with certain countries that are the subject of economic sanctions under relevant U.S. laws could result in negative media and investor attention to us and possible imposition of sanctions on Sinopec Group Company or its affiliates, which could materially and adversely affect our shareholders or our company. Sinopec Group Company undertakes, from time to time and without our involvement, overseas investments and operations in the oil and gas industry, including exploration and production of oil and gas, refining and Liquefied Natural Gas or LNG, and chemical projects. Sinopec Group Company’s overseas asset portfolio includes oil and gas development projects in Iran, Sudan and Syria, which countries are targets of U.S. sanctions administrated by OFAC and by the U.S. Department of State. In 2013, Sinopec International Petroleum E&P Hongkong Overseas Limited, a joint venture owned by Sinopec Group Company and us on an equal basis, acquired from Sinopec Group Company 49% interest in Taihu which is engaged in oil and gas exploration, development and production business in Russia. Starting from 2014, OFAC imposed economic sanctions against Russia focusing on trading activities involving certain Russia’s financial and energy entities. We currently do not believe that our investment in Taihu will result in any direct sanctions imposed by OFAC. However, events in or relating to Russia, including further trade restrictions and other sanctions, could adversely impact our investment in Russia. In addition, the United States may expand its sanctions regime to include other countries or regions where Sinopec Group Company or its affiliates, including us, may have assets or operations. We cannot predict the interpretation or implementation of government policy at the U.S. federal, state or local levels with respect to any current or future activities by Sinopec Group Company or its affiliates, including us, in countries or with individuals or entities that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. Similarly, we cannot predict whether U.S. sanctions will be further tightened, or the impact that such actions may have on Sinopec Group Company and us. It is possible that the United States could subject Sinopec Group Company and us to sanctions due to these activities. Certain U.S. state and local governments and colleges have restrictions on the investment of public funds or endowment funds, respectively, in companies that are members of corporate groups with activities in certain countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions. These investors may not wish to invest, and may divest their investment, in us because of our relationship with Sinopec Group Company and its investments and activities in those OFAC sanctioned countries. It is possible that, as a result of activities by Sinopec Group Company or its affiliates in countries that are the subject of U.S. sanctions, we may be subject to negative media or investor attention, which may distract management, consume internal resources and affect investors’ perception of our company. Further, the Iran Sanctions Act, as amended, and other U.S. laws and Executive Orders, authorize the imposition of sanctions on companies that engage in certain activities in and with Iran, especially in Iran’s energy sector. It is possible that Sinopec Group Company or its affiliates engage in activities that are targeted for sanctions by U.S. laws. It is possible that the U.S. government would determine, and in the event that the U.S. government so determines, that Sinopec Group Company or an entity it owns or controls, had engaged in any such activities and if the most extreme sanction, blocking, was applied to Sinopec Group Company’s property, including controlled subsidiaries, Sinopec Group Company could be prohibited from engaging in business activities in the United States or with U.S. individuals or entities, and U.S. transactions in our securities and distributions to U.S. individuals and entities with respect to our securities could also be prohibited. Risks Relating to the PRC Government regulations may limit our activities and affect our business operations. The PRC government, though gradually liberalizing its regulations on entry into the petroleum and petrochemical industry, continues to exercise certain controls over the petroleum and petrochemical industry in China. These control mechanisms include granting the licenses to explore and produce crude oil and natural gas, granting the licenses to market and distribute crude oil and refined petroleum products, regulating the upper limit of the retail prices for gasoline and diesel; collecting special oil income levies, deciding import and export quotas and procedures, setting safety, environmental and quality standards, and formulating policies to save energy and reduce emission; meanwhile, there could be potential changes to macroeconomic and industry policies such as further improvement of pricing mechanism of petroleum products, reforming and improvement of pricing mechanism of natural gas, and reforming in resource tax and environmental tax, which could impact our production and operations. Such control mechanisms may have material effects on our operations and profitability. 16 On the other hand, the PRC government has been gradually relaxing the control over imports of crude oil and refined oil products, which may result in refining overcapacity in China and intensify competition among refining companies in China. Such relaxation of the import control may have material and adverse effects on our refining margin, including procurement cost of imported crude oil and lower prices of refined oil products. The PRC governmental authorities, from time to time, audit or inspect our ultimate controlling shareholder. We cannot predict the impact if any, of their outcome on our reputation, business and financial condition as well as the trading prices of our ADSs and H shares. The PRC governmental authorities, from time to time, perform audits, inspections, inquiries or similar actions on state-owned companies, such as Sinopec Group Company, our ultimate controlling shareholder. Such inspections are not conducted on a regular basis with specific targets, and therefore we cannot predict the outcome of these governmental activities. If, as a result of such audits, inspections or inquiries, (i) material irregularities are found within Sinopec Group Company or us or our employees or (ii) Sinopec Group Company or we become the target of any negative publicity, our reputation, business and financial condition as well as the trading prices of our ADSs and H shares may be materially and negatively impacted. Our business operations may be adversely affected by present or future environmental regulations. As an integrated petroleum and petrochemical company, we are subject to extensive environmental protection laws and regulations in China. These laws and regulations permit: · the imposition of fees for the discharge of waste substances; · the levy of fines and payments for damages for serious environmental offenses; · the government, at its discretion, to close any facility which fails to comply with orders and require it to correct or stop operations causing environmental damage; and · litigations and liabilities arising from pollutions and damages to the environment and public interests. Our production activities produce substantial amounts of liquid, gas and solid waste materials. In addition, our production facilities require operating permits that are subject to renewal, modification and revocation. We have established a system to treat waste materials to prevent and reduce pollution. However, the PRC government has moved, and may move further, toward more rigorous enforcement of applicable laws, and toward the adoption of more stringent environmental standards, which, in turn, would require us to incur additional expenditures on environmental matters. In recent years, we have commenced exploration and production of unconventional oil and gas resources, such as shale oil and gas and coal bed methane, through the application of relatively advanced and expensive technologies. As a result, our unconventional oil and gas operations are subject to the limitations of unproven technology and expose us to higher environmental compliance standards and requirements. In the event of any failure to comply with such standards and requirements, we may be subject to public concerns about our unconventional oil and gas operations, which may also harm our corporate reputation. Some of our development plans require compliance with state policies and governmental regulation. We are currently engaged in a number of construction, renovation and expansion projects. Some of our large construction, renovation and expansion projects are subject to governmental confirmation and registration. The timing and cost of completion of these projects will depend on numerous factors, including when we can receive the required confirmation and registration from relevant PRC government authorities and the general economic condition in China. If any of our key projects required for our future growth are not confirmed or registered, or not confirmed or registered in a timely manner, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Government control of currency conversion and exchange rate fluctuation may adversely affect our operations and financial results. We receive a significant majority of our revenues in Renminbi. A portion of such revenues will need to be converted into other currencies to meet our foreign currency needs, which include, among other things: · import of crude oil and other materials; 17 · debt service on foreign currency-denominated debt; · purchases of imported equipment; · payment of the principals and interests of bonds issued overseas; and · payment of any cash dividends declared in respect of the H shares (including ADS). The existing foreign exchange regulations have significantly reduced government foreign exchange controls for transactions under the current account, including trade and service related foreign exchange transactions and payment of dividends. Foreign exchange transactions under the capital account, including principal payments in respect of foreign currency-denominated obligations, continue to be subject to significant foreign exchange controls and require the approval of the State Administration of Foreign Exchange. These limitations could affect our ability to obtain foreign exchange through debt or equity financing, or to obtain foreign exchange. The PRC government has stated publicly that it intends to make the Renminbi freely convertible in the future. However, we cannot predict whether the PRC government will continue its existing foreign exchange policy and when the PRC government will allow free conversion of Renminbi. The exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies fluctuates and is affected by, among other things, the changes in the PRC’s and international political and economic conditions. On July 21, 2005, the PRC government introduced a floating exchange rate system to allow the value of the Renminbi to fluctuate within a regulated band based on market supply and demand and by reference to a basket of foreign currencies. On June 19, 2010, the People’s Bank of China (the “PBOC”) decided to further promote the reform of exchange rate regime and enhance the flexibility of Renminbi exchange rate. Most of our crude oil purchases are settled in foreign currencies calculated on the basis of prices in U.S. dollar. Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the Renminbi against the U.S. dollars and certain other foreign currencies may adversely affect our oil and gas business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks relating to enforcement of shareholder rights; Mandatory arbitration. Currently, the primary sources of shareholder rights are our articles of association, the PRC Company Law and the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, which, among other things, impose certain standards of conduct, fairness and disclosure on us, our directors and our controlling shareholder. In general, their provisions for protection of shareholder’s rights and access to information are different from those applicable to companies incorporated in the United States, the United Kingdom and other Western countries. In addition, the mechanism for enforcement of rights under the corporate framework to which we are subject may also be relatively undeveloped and untested. To our knowledge, there has not been any published report of judicial enforcement in the PRC by H share shareholders of their rights under constituent documents of joint stock limited companies or the PRC Company Law or in the application or interpretation of the PRC or Hong Kong regulatory provisions applicable to PRC joint stock limited companies. We cannot guarantee that our shareholders will enjoy protections that they may be entitled in other jurisdictions. China does not have treaties providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of judgments of courts with the United States, the United Kingdom or most other Western countries, and therefore recognition and enforcement in China of judgments of a court in any of these jurisdictions in relation to any matter not subject to a binding arbitration provision may not be assured. Our articles of association as well as the Listing Rules of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange provide that most disputes between holders of H shares and us, our directors, supervisors, officers or holders of domestic shares, arising out of the articles of association or the PRC Company Law concerning the affairs of our company, are to be resolved through arbitration by arbitration organizations in Hong Kong or the PRC, rather than through a court of law. On June 18, 1999, an arrangement was made between Hong Kong and the PRC for the mutual enforcement of arbitral awards. This new arrangement was approved by the Supreme People’s Court of the PRC and the Hong Kong Legislative Council, and became effective on February 1, 2000. We are uncertain as to the outcome of any action brought in China to enforce an arbitral award granted to shareholders. Our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms operating in China, is not permitted to be subject to inspection by Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, and as such, investors may be deprived of the benefits of such inspection. Our independent registered public accounting firm that issues the audit reports included in our annual reports filed with the SEC, as an auditor of companies that are traded publicly in the United States and a firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is required by the laws of the United States to undergo regular inspections by PCAOB to assess its compliance with the laws of the United States and professional standards. Because our auditor is located in China, a jurisdiction where PCAOB is currently unable to conduct inspections without the approval of 18 the PRC authorities, our auditor, like other independent registered public accounting firms, is currently not inspected by PCAOB. Inspections of other firms that PCAOB has conducted outside of China have identified deficiencies in those firms’ audit procedures and quality control procedures, which may be addressed as part of the inspection process to improve future audit quality. The lack of PCAOB inspections in China may prevent PCAOB from regularly evaluating our auditor’s audits and quality control procedures. The inability of PCAOB to conduct inspections of auditors in China makes it more difficult to evaluate the effectiveness of our auditor’s audit procedures or quality control procedures. As a result, investors may be deprived of the benefits of PCAOB inspections. Additional remedial measures imposed on certain PRC-based accounting firms, including our independent registered public accounting firm, in proceedings brought by the SEC alleging the firms’ failure to meet specific criteria, could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. In December 2012, the SEC brought administrative proceedings against the “Big Four” accounting firms in China, including our independent registered public accounting firm, alleging that these firms had refused to produce audit work papers and other documents related to certain other China-based companies whose securities are publicly traded in the United States. On January 22, 2014, an initial administrative law decision was issued, censuring these accounting firms and barring these firms from practicing before the SEC for a period of six months. The decision is neither final nor legally effective unless and until it is endorsed by the SEC. In February 2015, each of the four PRC-based accounting firms agreed to a censure and to pay a settlement fine to the SEC to settle the dispute and avoid suspension of their ability to practice before the SEC. The settlement requires the firms to follow detailed procedures to seek to provide the SEC with access to Chinese firms’ audit documents via the China Securities Regulatory Commission (the “CSRC”) in response to future document requests by the SEC made through the CSRC. If the firms fail to comply with the documentation production procedures that set forth in the settlement agreement or if these required information fails to be provided to the SEC by the CSRC for reasons out of these firms’ control, the SEC could impose penalties such as suspensions, or it could restart the administrative proceedings. In the event that the SEC restarts the administrative proceedings, depending upon the final outcome, listed companies in the United States with major PRC operations may find it difficult or impossible to retain auditors in respect of their operations in the PRC, which could result in financial statements being determined to not be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act, including possible delisting. Moreover, any negative news about the proceedings against these audit firms may cause investor uncertainty regarding China-based, United States-listed companies and the market price of our ADSs may be adversely affected. If our independent registered public accounting firm was denied, even temporarily, the ability to practice before the SEC and we were unable to timely find another registered public accounting firm to audit and issue an opinion on our financial statements, our financial statements could be determined not to be in compliance with the requirements of the Exchange Act. Such a determination could ultimately lead to the delay or abandonment of this offering, delisting of our ADSs from the New York Stock Exchange (the “NYSE”) or deregistration from the SEC, or both, which would substantially reduce or effectively terminate the trading of our ADSs in the United States. 