Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on PWI’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, regulatory, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal factors are described below. Risks related to our business and our industry We face substantial competition from other securities and commodities processing and infrastructure firms, which could harm our financial performance and reduce our market share. The market for securities and futures processing infrastructure products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We compete with a number of firms that provide similar products and services to our market. Our competitors include Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P.; Pershing LLC, a member of BNY Securities Group; JPMorgan Chase & Co., National Financial Services LLC, a Fidelity Investments company; Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Bank of America; and RJ O’Brien & Associates LLC. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors also offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and more extensive client bases than ours. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Increased competition has contributed to the decline in net clearing revenue per transaction that we have experienced in recent years and may continue to create downward pressure on our net clearing revenue per transaction. In the past, we have responded to the decline in net clearing revenue by reducing our expenses, but if the decline continues, we may be unable to reduce our expenses at a comparable rate. Our failure to reduce expenses comparably would cause us to sustain additional losses. 23 Table of Contents We may be unable to execute our previously announced strategic initiatives In 2011, we announced several strategic initiatives, designed to reduce costs and debt, increase capital and return to profitability. Although we have successfully implemented certain of our initiatives, if we are unable to effectively implement the remaining initiatives, we may need to reduce or discontinue offering certain services, which may materially adversely affect our business. In addition, our inability to effectively implement our strategic initiatives could prevent us from returning to profitability. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a further discussion regarding the importance of the implementation of our strategic initiatives. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our clearing revenues. Our ten largest current clients accounted for approximately 30.7% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2011, while no client accounted for more than 8.7% of net revenues. The loss of even a small number of these clients at any one time could cause our revenues to significantly decline. As previously announced, the departure of one of our largest clients during the third quarter of 2011 significantly impacted overall revenues, though the client’s departure was offset in part by reduced costs and capital requirements associated with that business. We hope to be able to replace a substantial portion of that revenue from new correspondents we have signed. Our clearing contracts generally have an initial term of two years, and allow the correspondent to cancel our services upon providing us with 60 days of notice, in most cases after the expiration of the fixed term. Many of our futures clearing contracts with correspondents may be terminated with a 30-day notice. Our clearing contracts with correspondents can also terminate automatically if we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. In past periods, we have experienced temporary declines in our revenues when large clients have switched to other service providers. There can be no assurance that our largest clients will continue to use our products and services. Our clearing operations could expose us to legal liability for errors in performing clearing functions and improper activities of our correspondents. Any intentional failure or negligence in properly performing our clearing functions or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their customers could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities as well as actions in tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. Any litigation that arises as a result of our clearing operations could harm our reputation and cause us to incur substantial expenses associated with litigation and damage awards that could exceed our liability insurance by unknown but significant amounts. In the normal course of business, we purchase and sell securities as both principal and agent. If another party to the transaction fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, or if important counterparties elect not to do business with us, we may incur a loss if the market value of the security is different from the contract amount of the transaction. In the past, clearing firms in the U.S. have been held liable for failing to take action upon the receipt of customer complaints, failing to know about the suspicious activities of correspondents or their customers under circumstances where they should have known, and even aiding and abetting, or causing, the improper activities of their correspondents. Although our correspondents provide us with indemnity under our contracts, we cannot assure you that our procedures will be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents or protect us from liability for the acts of our correspondents under current laws and regulations or that securities industry regulators will not enact more restrictive laws or regulations or change their interpretations of current laws and regulations. If we fail to implement proper procedures or fail to adapt our existing procedures to new or more restrictive regulations, we may be subject to liability that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. 24 Table of Contents Our provision of sponsored and direct market access could expose us to legal liabilities for trading activity by third parties We provide sponsored access to certain entities, which allows those entities to submit trades to certain exchanges through our market participant identification (“MPID”). We are responsible for any trades submitted by those entities that use our MPID. In addition, we provide certain of our correspondents with direct market access to various exchanges. Recently, the SEC and certain domestic and foreign SROs have increased scrutiny and enacted stringent regulation of sponsored and direct market access providers. If we cannot or do not adequately assess and successfully control the risks involved with all of the trading activities of our correspondents, we may be unable to protect ourselves from those risks. Though we have indemnification provisions in our contracts with each of those entities, given the increased regulatory scrutiny in this area, these indemnification provisions may not adequately protect us from liabilities incurred due to our provision of these services. We will be required to follow such regulations as soon as they become effective, which may limit or eliminate our provision of these services and could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Even if we are able to continue to offer this service, we may have to incur substantial costs related to implementation of risk controls with low latency to comply with new regulations. Market weaknesses and lower trading volumes may negatively affect our results of operations and profitability. We are subject to risks as a result of volume fluctuations in the securities and futures markets. A prolonged period of market weakness and low trading volumes could adversely impact the business of our customers and our business. There is a direct correlation between the volume of our customers’ trading activity and our results of operations. If our customers’ trading activity decreases, we expect that it would have a negative impact on our results of operations and profitability. We, along with other participants in the equity and futures markets, have experienced a substantial decrease in trading volumes over the most recent quarters that has materially adversely affected our profitability during such time. Continuing low, short-term interest rates have negatively impacted the profitability of our margin lending business. The profitability of our margin lending activities depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of customer cash and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings. While they are not linearly connected, if short-term interest rates fall, we generally expect to receive a smaller gross interest spread, causing the profitability of our margin lending and other interest-sensitive revenue sources to decline. Recent decreases in short-term interest rates have contributed to a decrease in our profitability and will continue to do so while lower rates continue to be in effect. Assuming customer balances consistent with the current mix, we estimate that a 25 basis point change in the federal funds rate would affect our pre-tax income by approximately $1.0 million per quarter. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Federal Reserve usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in the gross spread we earn. This is most significant when the federal funds rate is on the lower end of its historical range, as it is today. This low interest rate environment is expected to continue at least through 2014. Interest rates in Canada and the U.K. are also subject to fluctuations based on governmental policies and economic factors and these fluctuations could also affect the profitability of our margin lending operations in these markets. Our margin lending business subjects us to credit risks and if we are unable to liquidate an investor’s securities when the margin collateral becomes insufficient, the profitability of our business may suffer. We provide margin loans to investors; therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. As of December 31, 2011, our receivables from customers and correspondents were $1.1 billion, which predominantly 25 Table of Contents reflected margin loans. The Company generally recognizes interest income on an accrual basis as it is earned. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the Company had approximately $8.5 million and $97.4 million in net receivables, respectively, primarily from customers and correspondents that were substantially collateralized and/or reserved, for which interest income was being recorded only when received. Our credit risks include the risk that the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of an investor’s indebtedness. This risk is especially great when the market is rapidly declining. Agreements with margin account investors permit us to liquidate their securities with or without prior notice in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient. Despite those agreements and our house policies with respect to margin, which may be more restrictive than is required under applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to liquidate the customers’ securities for various reasons, including: • the pledged securities may not be actively traded; • there may be an undue concentration of securities pledged; or • an order to stop transfer by the issuer of securities may be issued with regard to pledged securities. In the U.S., our margin lending is subject to the margin rules of the Federal Reserve, NYSE and FINRA, whose rules generally permit margin loans of up to 50% of the value of the securities collateralizing the margin account loan at the time the loan is made, subject to requirements that the customer deposit additional securities or cash in its accounts so that the customer’s equity in the account is at least 25% of the value of the securities in the account. Until we wind up our operations in the U.K. and sell our Canadian subsidiary, we are also subject to rules and regulations in those countries with regard to our margin lending activities in those markets. In certain circumstances, we may provide a higher degree of margin leverage to our correspondents with respect to their proprietary trading businesses than otherwise permitted by the margin rules described above based on an exemption for correspondents that purchase a class of preferred stock of PFSI. In addition, for our portfolio margining accounts, we are able to extend substantially more credit than permitted by the margin rules described above to approved customers pursuant to a risk formula adopted by the SEC. As a result, we may increase the risks otherwise associated with margin lending with respect to these correspondent and customer accounts. We rely, in part, on third parties to provide and support the software and systems we use to provide our services. Any interruption or cessation of service by these third parties could harm our business. We have contracted with SunGard Data Systems and, more recently, Broadridge to provide a major portion of the software and systems necessary for our execution and clearing services. We converted our securities clearing correspondents to Broadridge’s systems in 2011 and the first quarter of 2012. SunGard continues to provide software systems for our futures execution and clearing services. We rely on SunGard, Broadridge and other third parties to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. Now that we have converted our U.S. securities operations to Broadridge’s systems, we expect to be able to rely on Broadridge to be able to provide similar future product developments for our U.S. securities operations. See “Business — Strategic Acquisitions” for a description of the Broadridge transaction. For example, we expect to be able to continue to increase our U.S. trade volume if our business grows in the future. If in the future, however, enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems cannot be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to redesign our proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. The inability of third parties to supply us with software or systems on a reliable, timely basis or to allocate sufficient capacity to meet our trading volume requirements could harm relationships with our clients and our ability to achieve our projected level of growth. 26 Table of Contents Our transition of certain support services to Ridge and Broadridge may involve unforeseen delays, costs or technological complications. If we are unable to transition our services efficiently to Broadridge, we may experience interruptions or difficulties with respect to the services Broadridge is expected to provide. We have now converted our PFSC and our U.S. securities correspondents to Broadridge, who serves as our provider of certain software and systems necessary for our execution and clearing services. See “Business — Strategic Acquisitions” for a description of the Broadridge transaction. We completed the conversion of our Canadian operations to Broadridge in February, 2011 and our U.S. operations in 2011 and the first quarter of 2012. There can be no guarantees that we will not experience additional issues with respect to processing delays, hardware and software outages, or other service issues with Broadridge than we experience with our current providers. Any additional processing delays or issues we experience could impair our ability to provide services to our clients, which could impact our growth and cause significant financial loss. Our products and services, and the products and services provided to us by third parties, may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, and any infringement claims could require us to incur substantial costs, distract our management or prevent us from conducting our business. Although we attempt to avoid infringing upon known proprietary rights of third parties and typically incorporate indemnification provisions in any agreements where we license third party software, we are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights and have incurred litigation expenses in the past, and are continuing to incur expenses due to the ongoing Realtime Data case, related to our defense of our intellectual property rights. If we infringe upon the rights of third parties through use of our proprietary software or software licensed to us by third parties, we may be unable to obtain licenses to use those or similar rights on commercially reasonable terms. In either of these events, we would need to undertake substantial reengineering to continue offering our services and may not be successful. In addition, any claim of infringement could cause us to incur additional, substantial costs defending the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from conducting our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use and infringement by third parties, and our failure to do so may weaken our competitive position, and any legal claim we seek to pursue may require us to incur substantial cost and distract management and us from conducting our business. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe upon our proprietary rights. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to police unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that our intellectual property rights are sufficiently protected against unauthorized use and infringement by third parties, and our failure to do so may weaken our competitive position. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets, which may require us to incur substantial cost and distract our management and us from conducting our business. See also “Business — Intellectual property and other proprietary rights.” Our business is highly dependent upon the use of electronic transmission of information and we could incur substantial monetary and reputational damages if we are unable to maintain the security of our cyber network As part of our daily operations, we transmit personal customer information over computer systems and the Internet. Although we believe our transmission of information is secure, cyber attacks may go undetected, and embedded malware could affect our cyber network without our knowledge for long periods of time. To effect 27 Table of Contents secure transmissions of confidential information over computer systems and the Internet, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. While we periodically test the integrity and security of our systems, we cannot assure you that our efforts to maintain the security of our cyber network will be successful. If our clients’ account information is misappropriated, we may be held liable or suffer harm to our reputation. Increased public attention regarding the corporate use of personal information has led to increasingly complex legislation and regulations intended to strengthen data protection, information security and consumer privacy. The law in these areas is not consistent or settled. While we employ what we believe to be a high degree of care in protecting our clients’ confidential information, if third parties penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our clients’ personal or account information, or we were to otherwise release any such confidential information without our clients’ permission, unintentionally or otherwise, we could be subject to liability arising from claims related to impersonation or similar fraud claims or other misuse of personal information, as well as suffer harm to our reputation. To effect secure transmissions of confidential information over computer systems and the Internet, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. While we periodically test the integrity and security of our systems, we cannot assure you that our efforts to maintain the confidentiality of our clients’ account information will be successful. Our risk management policies and procedures may leave us exposed to unidentified risks or an unanticipated level of risk. We seek to control our risk exposure through a risk management framework that is designed to monitor, identify and measure the types of risk we face. While our management believes that our risk management framework effectively evaluates and manages the financial, operational, market, credit and other risks we face, risk management tools, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations, which could cause them to be ineffective. As a result, we face the risk of losses, including losses resulting from firm errors, customer defaults or fraud. Unexpectedly large or rapid movements or disruptions in one or more markets may cause adverse changes in securities values, decreases in liquidity and trading positions and increased volatility, all of which could increase our risk exposure to our customers and to other third parties. In addition, while we monitor every customer account that is less than fully collateralized with liquid securities daily, our risk controls may not be able to protect us from substantial losses in those accounts. If our risk management tools are unable to control our risk exposure, we may suffer material losses or suffer other adverse consequences that could impair our ability to continue our operations. See Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations for a description of losses we incurred due in part to illiquid collateral underlying margin loans we extended. We may be subject to material litigation proceedings that could cause us significant reputational harm and financial loss. We are subject from time-to-time to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, customer, and other issues on a global basis, based on our activity or the activity of our correspondents. As described in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings,” we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. These matters include our involvement in a bankruptcy proceeding concerning Sentinel Management Group, Inc. (“Sentinel”), which is described in detail in Item 3. The bankruptcy trustee in this matter is seeking the return of pre- and post-bankruptcy petition transfers made to Penson Futures and Penson Financial Futures, Inc. (“PFFI”), a subsidiary of PWI, to which we have objected. We intend to vigorously defend this position, but we are not able to predict the outcome of this dispute at this time. In the event that Penson Futures and PFFI are obligated to return a substantial portion of previously distributed funds to the Sentinel estate, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period in which the payment is made. In addition, we are currently involved in a matter regarding Nexa’s use of certain intellectual property rights. An unfavorable outcome in that matter may require us to terminate use of certain intellectual property we currently employ, or to license such intellectual property at a high cost. Further, as described in Item 3, the Company is involved purported shareholder class 28 Table of Contents action litigation and derivative litigation. The Plaintiffs in those matters contend that the Company and/or certain officer or directors concealed from investors $96-97 million in receivables that were partly collateralized by illiquid securities (“Nonaccrual Receivables”), and they take issue with the Company’s accounting treatment of those receivables, among other things. These events have led to increased regulatory scrutiny of our operations and margin lending. We intend to vigorously defend our position, but we are not able to predict the outcome of this dispute at this time. As is not atypical in these situations, these events have led to increased regulatory scrutiny of our operations by our regulators, including FINRA and the SEC, as described in Item 3. — “Legal Proceedings.” Litigation generally is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings can occur. An unfavorable ruling in any matter could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from providing clearing or technology services. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could suffer significant reputational and financial loss. Any slowdown or failure of our computer or communications systems could subject us to liability for losses suffered by our clients or their customers. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and to receive and process securities and futures orders through a variety of electronic media. Our principal computer equipment and software systems, including backup systems, are maintained at various locations in Texas, Chicago, Boston, New Jersey, Minnesota, Toronto, Montreal and London. Our systems or any other systems in the trading process could slow down significantly or fail for a variety of reasons, including: • computer viruses or undetected errors in our internal software programs or computer systems; • inability to rapidly monitor all intraday trading activity; • inability to effectively resolve any errors in our internal software programs or computer systems once they are detected; • heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times; or • power or telecommunications failure, fire, tornado or any other natural disaster. While we continue to monitor system loads and performance and implement system upgrades to handle predicted increases in trading volume and volatility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict future volume increases or volatility or that our systems will be able to accommodate these volume increases or volatility without failure or degradation. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems, communications systems or any other systems in the clearing or trading processes could cause the customers of our clients to suffer delays in the execution of their trades. These delays could cause substantial losses for our clients or their customers and could subject us to claims and losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence, damage our reputation, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenues or divert our technical resources. If our operational systems and infrastructure fail to keep pace with the operational requirements of our customers, we may experience operating inefficiencies, client dissatisfaction and lost revenue opportunities. The global securities and futures industry is characterized by increasingly complex infrastructures and products, new and changing business models and rapid technological changes. Our clients’ needs and demands for our products and services evolve with these changes. We believe that the current and anticipated future needs of our customers will require the implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems, the training of personnel to operate these systems and the expansion and upgrade of core technologies. While many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate changing customer requirements. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict the timing or rate of these changes or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure on a timely basis. 29 Table of Contents In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has recently become increasingly stringent. We have implemented and continue to implement formal compliance procedures to respond to these changes and the impact on our operations. Our future operating results will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, and communication and information management; • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; and • to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. The change in our customers’ operational requirements has required and will continue to require increased investments in management personnel and systems, financial systems and controls and office facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with these investments would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or continue to manage the change in our customers’ operational requirements successfully. If we fail to do so, we may experience operating inefficiencies, dissatisfaction among our client base and lost revenue opportunities. A failure in the operational systems of third parties could significantly disrupt our business and cause losses. We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services as their operations grow, in which case we would lose the revenues generated by such correspondents. We market our clearing services to our existing correspondents on the strength of our ability to process transactions and perform related back-office functions at a lower cost than the correspondents could perform these functions themselves. As our correspondents’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to in the securities industry as “self-clearing.” As the transaction volume of a correspondent grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may eventually be offset by the elimination of per-transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing firms to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. If our clients choose to self-clear, we would lose their revenue and our business could be adversely affected. We are also subject to the risk that one or more of our correspondents may be acquired by a firm which is already self clearing, or clears through another broker-dealer. Our largest correspondent, thinkorswim, was acquired by TD Ameritrade in 2009 and in August, 2011, TD Ameritrade, Inc., f/k/a thinkorswim, Inc., deconverted a substantial portion of its accounts to its own systems. Our ability to sell our services and grow our business could be significantly impaired if we lose the services of key personnel. Our business is highly dependent on a small number of key executive officers. We have entered into compensation agreements with various personnel, but we do not have employment agreements with most of our employees. The loss of the services of the key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other 30 Table of Contents qualified personnel in the future could harm our business. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the securities and futures processing infrastructure industry is intense, and there is no assurance that we would be able to recruit management personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. We may face risks associated with potential future acquisitions that could reduce our profitability or hinder our ability to successfully expand our operations. Over the past few years, our business strategy has included engaging in acquisitions which have facilitated our ability to provide technology infrastructure and establish a presence in international markets. We have completed five acquisitions since 2006, including the acquisitions of GHCO and FCG in 2007 that significantly expanded our futures business. Additionally we completed the acquisition of substantially all of Ridge’s contracts with its securities clearing clients in June, 2010. In the future, we may acquire additional businesses or technologies as part of our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which potentially involve the following risks: • diversion of management’s time and attention to the negotiation of the acquisitions; • difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel including, but not limited to, the increased trade volume of acquired businesses; • the need to modify financial and other systems and to add management resources; • assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations and disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution to our existing stockholders due to the issuance of equity securities that may make it difficult for us to raise capital from equity financing in the future; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; and • possible accounting charges due to impairment of goodwill or other purchased intangible assets. Failure to manage our acquisitions to avoid these risks could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Our ability to borrow a limited amount of funds under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility may adversely affect our liquidity and our results of operations. As of December 31, 2011 we had $7.0 million outstanding under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility. We currently have loans of approximately $.3 million outstanding under this facility. While our broker-dealer subsidiaries continue to have access to capital to finance day-to-day operations through separate secured facilities, the relatively limited current availability under this facility could adversely affect us if we have an unanticipated need for additional capital and cannot obtain capital, or can only obtain capital on terms that are not favorable to us, from other sources when such funds are required. While we believe that we may be able to find alternative sources of capital should we need to raise additional funds, we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do so or that we will be able to do so on terms that are sufficiently favorable or in a timely manner. Our ability to settle transactions often depends on the availability of credit from our intraday and overnight lenders As of December 31, 2011, we had uncommitted lines of credit with six financial institutions for the purpose of facilitating our clearing business as well as the activities of our customers and correspondents, and one committed line of credit that permits us to borrow up to $1.5 million. Four of the uncommitted lines of credit permitted us to borrow up to an aggregate of approximately $269.2 million while two lines had no stated limit. Our lenders have recently eliminated our ability to borrow unsecured funds, although such recent limitations 31 Table of Contents have not materially adversely affected our ability to service our clients’ business. While we believe we have sufficient resources to address intraday and overnight borrowing needs, if we are not able to obtain sufficient credit, our ability to settle our customer transactions could be impaired, which would materially adversely affect our business operations. Covenants in our credit agreement and certain other debt instruments restrict our business in many ways. Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the Notes and other outstanding debt instruments include various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things: incur additional indebtedness, pay dividends on our capital stock or redeem, repurchase or retire our capital stock or prepay certain indebtedness, make investments, make capital expenditures, engage in certain transactions with our affiliates, enter into acquisitions, consolidate, merge or sell assets, incur liens and change the business conducted by us and our subsidiaries. In addition, the Amended and Restated Credit Facility contains covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility and certain other outstanding debt instruments also require that PFSI maintain net regulatory capital of at least 5.5% of its aggregate debt balances. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the Notes and other outstanding debt instruments. Our Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the Notes and other outstanding debt instruments include various events of default. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the Amended and Restated Credit Facility the Notes or other outstanding debt instruments, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under such credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the obligations under our Amended and Restated Credit Facility, the Notes or the Convertible Notes were accelerated, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the amounts outstanding thereunder which would have a material adverse effect on us. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in trading volume, market prices, liquidity of securities markets or proprietary trading activity. We generate revenues primarily from transaction processing fees we earn from our clearing operations and interest income from our margin lending activities and interest earned by investing customers’ cash. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, market prices and liquidity of securities markets. Over the past several years the U.S. and foreign securities markets have experienced significant volatility. Sudden or gradual but sustained declines in market values of securities can result in: • reduced trading activity; • illiquid markets; • declines in the market values of securities carried by our customers and correspondents; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; • reduced margin loan balances of investors; and • increases in claims and litigation. The occurrence of any of these events would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our clearing operations and margin lending activities. Certain of our subsidiaries engage in proprietary trading activities. Please see our discussion in “Business — Securities-processing” and “Proprietary trading.” Historically these activities have accounted for a very small portion of our total revenues and net income/loss. With respect to most of such trading, we endeavor to limit our 32 Table of Contents exposure to markets through, among other means, employing hedging strategies and by limiting the period of time that we have market exposure. However, we are not completely protected against market risk from such trading at any particular point in time and proprietary trading risks could adversely impact operating results in a specific financial period. Continued market instability could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. As a financial services provider, our business is sensitive to conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, as well as to the soundness of particular financial services institutions with which we transact business. Among other things, national and international markets have continued through 2011 to suffer significant turmoil initially caused by a sharp downturn in markets for mortgage-related securities and non-investment grade debt securities and loans and more recently by sovereign debt problems in the European Union. Several large financial institutions including, without limitation, commercial banks, insurance companies, and brokerage firms, have either filed for bankruptcy or been the subject of governmental intervention in the form of loans, equity infusions or direct government ownership in receivership. Others have been sold in whole or in part to third parties. Financial services institutions that deal with each other are often interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships and difficulties in one country or financial market can adversely impact other countries or markets. As a result, a default or failure by, or even concerns about the stability or liquidity of, one or more financial services institutions could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, or losses or defaults by other institutions, including us. In addition, our operations may suffer to the extent that ongoing market volatility causes individuals and institutional traders and other market participants to curtail or forego trading activities, which could adversely affect our operations and financial conditions. Requirements to close out fails resulting from short sales could increase our costs and adversely affect our securities lending business. We are subject to Rule 204 under the Exchange Act, which requires clearing broker-dealers to make delivery on short sales effected in the U.S. no later than T+3. Under Rule 204, clearing broker-dealers that do not purchase or borrow securities to cover certain fail positions as of the opening of trading on T+4 are subject to a borrowing penalty for each security that the clearing-broker fails to deliver (subject to the allocation provision noted below). The borrowing penalty, which requires pre-borrowing in connection with short sales, will apply until the clearing broker purchases a sufficient amount of the security to make full delivery on the fail position and that purchase clears and settles. If a clearing broker becomes subject to the borrowing penalty, the penalty will prohibit the clearing broker from effecting short sales in that security for its own account or for that of any introducing broker or customer unless the clearing broker has borrowed the securities in question or has entered into a bona fide arrangement to borrow the securities. Clearing broker-dealers are permitted to reasonably allocate the close-out requirement to an introducing broker that is responsible for the fail position. As the clearing broker-dealer, if we are unable to timely cover a fail position and cannot allocate the close-out responsibility to the broker-dealer that is responsible for the fail position, we would be subject to the borrowing penalty until such time as we have purchased a sufficient amount of the security to make full delivery on the fail position and that purchase has cleared and settled, which generally is three business days after the purchase. Foreign jurisdictions in which we operate also have restrictions on short selling. Because of the requirements of Rule 204 and foreign restrictions on short selling, our costs associated with handling short sales, including the costs associated with closing out fail positions and borrowing securities to facilitate short selling may increase significantly. In addition, if we become subject to the borrowing penalty, our customers may be less likely to use our securities lending department for short sale transactions and the scope of our securities lending business may significantly decrease, which will adversely affect our operations and financial condition. On February 24, 2010, the SEC adopted additional restrictions on short selling stock. These restrictions, known as the alternative uptick rule, restrict short selling in securities that have dropped more than 10% in one day. These changes and potential future regulatory changes related to short-selling of securities may have a negative impact on our ability to earn the spreads we have historically collected. 33 Table of Contents General economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that are beyond our control may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets, which could result in lower revenues from our business operations. Trading volume, market prices and liquidity are affected by general national and international economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that result in changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. These factors include: • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; • currency values and inflation; and • national, state and local taxation levels affecting securities transactions. These factors are beyond our control and may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets. Our largest source of revenues has historically been revenues from clearing operations, which are largely driven by the volume of trading activities of the customers of our correspondents and proprietary trading by our correspondents. Our margin lending revenues and technology revenues are also impacted by changes in the trading activities of our correspondents and customers. Accordingly, any significant reduction in activity in the securities markets would likely result in lower revenues from our business operations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: • changes in the proportion of clearing operations revenues and interest income; • the lengthy sales and integration cycle with new correspondents; • the gain or loss of business from a correspondent; • our ability to obtain financing at favorable rates; • changes in per-transaction clearing fees; • changes in bad debt expense from margin lending as compared to historical levels; • changes in the rates we charge for margin loans, changes in the rates we pay for cash deposits we hold on behalf of our correspondents and their customers and changes in the rates at which we can invest such cash deposits; • changes in the market price of securities and our ability to manage related risks; • fluctuations in overall market trading volume; • the relative success and/or failure of third party clearing competitors, many of which have increasingly larger resources than we have as a result of recent consolidation in our industry; • the relative success and/or failure of third party technology competitors including, without limitation, competitors to our Nexa business; • our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses; • Announcements and commencements of regulatory and legal proceedings; and • the amount and timing of capital expenditures. 34 Table of Contents Our expense structure is based on historical expense levels and the expected levels of demand for our clearing, margin lending and other services. If demand for our services declines, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis in order to achieve profitability. Due to the foregoing factors, period-to-period comparisons of our historical revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely upon such comparisons as indicators of future performance. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the rates of revenue growth we have experienced in the past, or improve our operating results. Our involvement in futures and options markets subjects us to risks inherent in conducting business in those markets. We principally clear futures and options contracts on behalf of our correspondents and their respective customers. Trading in futures and options contracts is generally more highly leveraged than trading in other types of securities. This additional leverage increases the risk associated with trading in futures and options contracts, which in turn raises the risk that a correspondent, introducing broker, or customer may not be able to fully repay its creditors, including us, if it experiences losses in its futures and options contract trading business. We may not be able to or determine not to hedge our foreign exchange risk. As a foreign exchange trade dealer, we enter into currency transactions with certain of our institutional clients or other institutions using modeled prices that we determine and may seek to hedge our risk by executing similar transactions on the various exchanges or electronic communication networks of which we are a participant. While we expect to be able to limit our risk in our transactions with our clients through hedging transactions on exchanges or ECNs or through other counterparty relationships, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into these transactions at prices similar to those which we entered into with our clients. In addition, while we may intend to enter into the hedging transactions after we enter into a transaction with our client or the relevant institution, it is possible that currency prices could fluctuate before we are able to enter into such hedging transactions or, for other reasons, we may determine not to hedge such risk. The securities and futures businesses are highly dependent on certain market centers that may be targets of terrorism. Our business is dependent on exchanges and market centers being able to process trades. Terrorist activities in September 2001 caused the U.S. securities markets to close for four days. This impacted our revenue and profitability for that period of time. If future terrorist incidents cause interruption of market activity, our revenues and profits may be negatively impacted. Extreme market volatility may cause investors to avoid participation in equity markets, which could lead to substantially reduced trading volumes. On May 6, 2010, the Dow Jones Industrial Average plunged over 900 points and then rapidly rebounded. This “Flash Crash” caused many investors and traders to reduce their trading activity in equity markets, or to suspend all trading activity. In addition, extreme market volatility during certain periods of 2011, including August, 2011, led to decreased overall trading activity. Any further market disruptions that cause investors and traders to reduce trading activity could lead to significantly reduced trading volumes, which could adversely affect our revenue and profitability. Any funds we expect to receive from our planned disposition of certain foreign assets may be lengthy and subject to foreign currency fluctuations. As part of our strategic initiatives, we have announced our intention to dispose of certain of our foreign assets. We may be unable to arrange for the sale of these assets on terms we believe to be acceptable for some time. Even if we are to quickly sell our foreign assets, we may experience significant currency fluctuations that 35 Table of Contents may reduce the benefit we see. Also, we may have difficulty bringing the funds received from the sale to the U.S. due to foreign laws and regulations. Any delay in obtaining the anticipated funds could materially adversely affect our available funds and our ability to finance our operations. Risks related to government regulation All aspects of our business are subject to extensive government regulation. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, and we could suffer significant reputational and financial loss. The securities industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, NYSE, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, various stock and futures exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. Broker-dealers and FCMs are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities and futures businesses, including: • sales methods; • trade practices among broker-dealers and FCMs; • use and safekeeping of investors’ funds and securities; • capital structure; • margin lending; • record keeping; • conduct of directors, officers and employees; and • supervision of investor accounts. Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed non-compliance with these regulations in the future and even for the claimed non-compliance of our correspondents with such regulations. If a claim of non-compliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of our management could be diverted to responding to such a claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Additionally, our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions which are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. We and certain of our officers and employees have been subject to claims of non-compliance in the past, and may be subject to claims and legal proceedings in the future. While we continue to operate clearing and related businesses in the U.K. and Canada, and execute transactions in global markets, we remain subject to significant additional foreign regulations. These non-U.S. businesses are also heavily regulated. To the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of our business, we will face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts. In addition, as we expand into new non-U.S. markets with which we may have relatively less experience, there is a risk that our lack of familiarity with the regulations impacting such markets may affect our performance and results. 36 Table of Contents The regulatory environment in which we operate has experienced significantly increasing scrutiny by regulatory authorities in recent years and further changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant change in the past and will likely undergo further change in the future. The CFTC, SEC, NYSE, FINRA, NFA, various securities or futures exchanges and other U.S. and foreign governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. Certain regulatory authorities have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions against companies in our industry and penalties and fines sought by certain regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. Periodic reviews by our regulators have not historically led to material operational restrictions, however, our regulators are currently reviewing our operations and if our regulators believe that it is necessary to apply additional restrictions on our operations, it could materially adversely affect our business. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, in our regulatory environment approval is required prior to any material expansion of our business activities. Regulatory scrutiny has recently significantly increased, in part as a result of (i) general regulatory trends in the industry, (ii) regulatory responses to the recent bankruptcy filing of MF Global Holdings (as discussed below), and (iii) consideration by regulators of our operations, and we therefore may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any desired expansion. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business and could require us to incur significant compliance costs or adversely affect the development of business activities in affected markets. Recent developments in the futures industry may lead to increased regulatory scrutiny and lower trading volumes. The recent bankruptcy filing of MF Global Holdings, Ltd. has led to increased regulatory scrutiny and decreased customer confidence in the U.S. futures industry. Any additional regulatory restrictions enacted in response to these developments could be costly or we may be unable to comply. Reduced customer confidence in the futures industry may lead to significantly decreased trading volume. If that were to occur, our revenue from our futures operations could be materially reduced. Recently enacted financial reform legislation and related regulations may negatively affect our business activities, results of operations and profitability. While certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be effective immediately, many other provisions will be effective only following extended transition periods of varying lengths. Therefore, it is impractical at present to forecast the comprehensive effects of the legislation. The Dodd-Frank Act also mandates the preparation of studies on a wide range of issues, which could lead to additional legislation or regulatory changes. This legislation makes extensive changes to the laws regulating financial services firms and requires significant rule-making. The legislation and regulation of financial institutions, both domestically and internationally, include calls to increase capital and liquidity requirements, limit the size and types of the activities permitted and increase taxes on some institutions. While we are currently assessing the impact that these initiatives will have directly on our business, we are also assessing the indirect effect on us due to the impact on certain of our customers. As a result of the effect of these new legislative and regulatory changes on our customers, our revenue may materially decrease, our ability to pursue certain business opportunities may be limited, we may be required to change certain of our business practices, we may incur significant additional costs and we may otherwise have our business adversely affected. If we do not comply with current or future legislation and regulations that apply to our operations, we may be 37 Table of Contents subject to fines, penalties or material restrictions on our businesses in the jurisdiction where the violation occurred. Accordingly, we cannot provide assurance that any such new legislation or regulation would not have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, profitability or financial condition. If we do not maintain the capital levels required by regulations, we may be subject to fines, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by regulatory authorities. We are subject to stringent rules imposed by the SEC, NYSE, FINRA, and various other regulatory agencies which require broker-dealers to maintain specific levels of net capital. Net capital is the net worth of a broker-dealer, less deductions, for other types of assets including assets not readily convertible into cash and specified percentages of a broker-dealer’s proprietary securities positions. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, we may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by NYSE and/or FINRA, which, if not cured, could ultimately lead to our liquidation. If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against our net capital, we might be required to limit or discontinue our clearing and margin lending operations that require the intensive use of capital. In addition, our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay or repurchase debt, including the notes, at the parent company level and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, if necessary. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could impede our ability to expand or even maintain our present volume of business. Our futures clearing business is subject to the capital and segregation rules of the NFA and CFTC. If we fail to maintain the required capital, or if we violate the customer segregation rules, we may be subject to monetary fines, and the suspension or revocation of our license to clear futures contracts. Any interruption in our ability to continue this business would impact our revenues and profitability. While our subsidiaries continue to operate outside of the U.S., we are subject to other regulatory capital requirements. Our U.K. subsidiary is subject to capital adequacy rules that require our subsidiary to maintain stockholders’ equity and qualifying subordinated loans at specified minimum levels. If we fail to maintain the required regulatory capital, we may be subject to fine, suspension or revocation of our license with the FSA. If our license is suspended or revoked or if the capital adequacy requirements are changed or expanded, we may be required to discontinue our U.K. operations, which could result in diminished revenues or materially adversely affect our strategic initiatives with respect to PFSL. As a member of IIROC, an approved participant with the Montreal Exchange, a participating organization with the Toronto Stock Exchange and a member of the TSX Venture Exchange and various Canadian alternative trading systems, PFSC is subject to the rules and policies of IIROC and other rules relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital. Specifically, to ensure that the IIROC members will be able to meet liabilities as they become due, IIROC requires its investment dealer members to periodically calculate their risk adjusted capital in accordance with a prescribed formula. If PFSC fails to maintain the required risk adjusted capital, it may be subject to monetary sanctions, suspensions or other sanctions, including expulsion as a member. If PFSC is sanctioned or expelled or if the risk adjusted capital requirements are changed or expanded, PFSC may be required to discontinue operations in Canada, which could result in diminished revenues. In addition, some of the investments we make in our business may impact our regulatory capital. We have made large investments into Nexa. Investments in non-regulated subsidiaries and increases in illiquid assets, including unsecured customer accounts decrease the capital available for our regulated subsidiaries. If we experience increased levels of unsecured and partially secured accounts in the future, we could suffer significant financial loss. Procedures and requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require that they know certain information about their 38 Table of Contents customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the PATRIOT Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We may face particular difficulties in identifying our international customers, gathering the required information about them and monitoring their activities. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the PATRIOT Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cash flows. Risks related to our corporate structure Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors at meetings of our stockholders; and • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. In addition, our Board of Directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our Board of Directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our Board of Directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company. Our discontinued operations expose us to legal and other risks. In May, 2006, we completed the disposal by split off of certain non-core business operations that were placed into the subsidiaries of a newly formed holding company known as SAMCO Holdings, Inc. (SAMCO). Our then existing stockholders exchanged $10.4 million of SAMCO net assets and $7.3 million of cash for 1.0 million Penson shares. The split off transaction was structured to be tax free to the Company and our stockholders, and the net assets were distributed at net book value. Though there was substantial common ownership between the Company and SAMCO, we did not retain any ownership interest in SAMCO, which is operated independently. Although the split off transaction occurred over three years ago, we may incur future 39 Table of Contents liabilities related to the operations of the SAMCO entities. Due to the Company’s indirect ownership of the SAMCO entities prior to our initial public offering we may be exposed to additional liabilities beyond what we may ordinarily encounter in our typical customer relationships. Risks related to our requirements as a public company Our stockholders could be harmed if our management and larger stockholders use their influence in a manner adverse to other stockholders’ interests. At the date of this report, our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 49.3% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to control all fundamental matters affecting us, including the election of the majority of the board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in our control even if beneficial to stockholders. The interests of these stockholders with respect to such matters could conflict with the interests of public stockholders. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Since the completion of our initial public offering in May 2006, the price at which our common stock has traded has been subject to significant fluctuation. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile in the future and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • reductions in market prices or volume; • changes in securities or other government regulations; • quarterly variations in operating results; • Credit risk of investors in our margin lending business; • our technological capabilities to accommodate any future growth in our operations or clients; • announcements of technological innovations, new products, services, significant contracts, acquisitions or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • issuance and sales of our securities in financing transactions; and • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to meet or exceed analyst estimates. As a result, shareholders may be unable to sell their stock at or above the price they paid for it. In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2011, our stock closed below $1.00 for the first time. If our stock were to trade below $1.00 for an extended period, we could be subject to de-listing by NASDAQ. If our stock were de-listed, liquidity in our stock could be substantially lowered, which may cause our stockholders to have more difficulty buying and selling our stock. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to provide an attestation report as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are continuously evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and rules and regulations of the SEC thereunder, which we refer to as Section 404. While we have not identified material weaknesses to date, we may from time to time identify conditions that may result in material weaknesses. 40 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments At the beginning of July, 2011, the Company received a comment letter from the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission Division of Corporation Finance with respect to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 2011. The Company has exchanged correspondence with the SEC regarding the matters raised in their comment letter and in subsequent communications, and the SEC has provided additional comments with respect to the Company’s Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the periods ended June 30, 2011 and September 30, 2011. In its filings during 2011 the Company has adopted various suggestions made by the SEC, but a number of the comments raised by the SEC remain the subject of on- going discussions between the Company and the SEC. The comments of the SEC relate primarily to goodwill valuations and methodologies for the determination of collectability of certain receivables. The Company is in the process of providing additional background information to the SEC with respect to its analysis and the factors that underlie the determinations concerning these matters, as reflected in its financial statements. 