D. Risk Factors In addition to other information in this annual report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our business because such factors may have a significant impact on our operating results and financial condition. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. Also, actual results could differ materially from those projected in any forward looking statements. Risks Related to Our Businesses We conduct our business activities in various foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to the risk of foreign investigations, claims and tax reviews. Our activities involve business relationships with teaching colleges and business associates located in foreign jurisdictions. In addition, our goals over the next 12 months include expanding our presence in some foreign jurisdictions. As a result, we could be involved in various foreign investigations, claims and tax reviews that arise in the ordinary course of our business activities. Each of these matters is subject to various uncertainties and it is possible that some of these matters may not be resolved in our favour. Applicable taxes include value added tax, corporate income tax (profits tax), and payroll (social) taxes. Matters of taxation, as well as other areas, are subject to review and investigation by governmental authorities who are often enabled by law to impose extremely severe fines and penalties. Any regulatory uncertainty in taxation or other areas could negatively affect us through increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation. 10 If we are not able to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without a significant decrease in course fees, our revenues may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. The success of our business depends primarily on the number of students enrolled in our courses and the amount of course fees that our students are willing to pay. Our ability to continue increasing our student enrollment levels without a significant decrease in course fees is critical to the continued success and growth of our business. This in turn will depend on several factors, including our ability to develop new programs and enhance existing programs to respond to changes in market trends and student demands, manage our growth while maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality, effectively market our programs to a broader base of prospective students, develop and license additional high-quality educational content and respond to competitive pressures. If we are unable to continue to attract students to enroll in our courses without a significant decrease in course fees, our revenue may decline and we may not be able to maintain profitability. Our quarterly results of operations are likely to fluctuate based on our seasonal student enrollment patterns. Our business is seasonal in nature and we receive the bulk of our cash flows at the beginning of each new school term. In reviewing our results of operations, you should not focus on quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Our results in a given quarter may not be indicative of our results in any subsequent quarter or annually. Our quarterly results of operations have tended to fluctuate as a result of seasonal variations in our education business in China and Canada, principally due to seasonal enrollment patterns. Our fourth quarter results for the three months ended August 31, 2008 will generally be quite low as few students are enrolled in courses over the summer. Changes in our total student population may influence our quarterly results of operations. Our student population varies as a result of new student enrollments, graduations and student attrition. Our institutes’ academic schedule generally does not affect our costs and our costs do not fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis. Fluctuations in quarterly results, however, may impact management's ability to accurately project the available cash flows necessary for operating and growing expenses through internal funding. We expect quarterly fluctuations in results of operations to continue as a result of seasonal enrollment patterns. These patterns may change, however, as a result of new campus openings, new program offerings and increased enrollment of adult students. Our operating results have fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate widely. Failure to effectively and efficiently manage the expansion of our school network may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities. We plan to pursue a number of different strategies to expand our operations, including acquiring existing education institutions that align with our business plan, exporting our Sprott-Shaw and CIBT programs to Asia, expanding our network of agents who recruit students on our behalf, importing international students to Canada who will pay international fees, thereby generating more revenues than domestic students, enhancing our infrastructure in China and Canada, and opening additional campuses worldwide. As of August 31, 2008, we have increased the number of our campuses in China to seven, and the number of our CIBT centers/Alliance locations in China to seven. Three of these CIBT center/Alliance locations have been set up and the rest are under construction. We also acquired Sprott-Shaw in December 2007 and have expanded its program offerings and partnerships. The rapid pace at which we have expanded and plan to continue expanding in the future may place substantial demands on our management, faculty, operational, technological and other resources. In particular, we may face challenges in the following areas: · control costs and develop operating efficiencies to manage the financial side of our expansion; · maintaining the consistency of our teaching quality and our culture to ensure that recognition of our brands do not suffer; · improving our existing operational, administrative and technological systems and our financial and management controls; · recruiting, training and retaining additional qualified teachers and management personnel as well as other administrative and sales and marketing personnel, particularly as we expand into new markets; · continue marketing the CIBT and Sprott-Shaw brands to recruit new students for existing and future learning centers; and · obtain the necessary government approvals to operate in new countries; We cannot assure you that we will be able to effectively and efficiently manage the growth of our operations. Any failure to effectively and efficiently manage our expansion may materially and adversely affect our ability to capitalize on new business opportunities or effectively run our existing operations, which in turn may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 11 The continued success and growth of our business depends upon recognition of our “CIBT” and “Sprott-Shaw” brands. If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brands, our business and operating results may be harmed. We believe that our history of successful operations and innovative course offerings such as our 1+1 and 2+2 Masters programs have helped develop brand recognition of our “CIBT” and “Sprott-Shaw” brands and create a competitive advantage for us in our key markets. In the future, we will need to build upon this brand recognition to continue to attract potential students in the face of increased competition in the private education markets in Canada, China and other parts of Asia. As we continue to expand our operations, maintaining the quality of our teaching and program offerings may be difficult to achieve. We have initiated campaigns to promote our brand, but we cannot be certain that these efforts will continue to be successful. If we are unable to further enhance our brand recognition and increase awareness of our programs and services, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Risks Related to Doing Business in China We are exposed to currency exchange risk which could cause our reported earnings or losses to fluctuate. Although we report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our functional currency is the Canadian dollar and the majority of our sales and operating costs are denominated in either RMB or Canadian dollars. In addition, we are exposed to currency exchange risk on those of our assets and liabilities denominated in RMB or U.S. dollars. As our financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, any change in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the Canadian dollar during a given financial reporting period could give rise to material fluctuations in reported comprehensive income or loss resulting from the translation of our financial statements from the Canadian dollar functional currency to the U.S. dollar reporting currency. Effective September 1, 2008 we reverted our reporting currency to Canadian dollars, which will reduce fluctuations in reported comprehensive income or loss for reporting periods ending after this date. Fluctuation in the value of RMB may have a material adverse effect on our operation. The value of RMB against the Canadian dollar or U.S. dollar may fluctuate and is affected by, among other things, changes in political and economic conditions in China as well as the global economy. On July 21, 2005, the Chinese government changed its decade-old policy of pegging the value of the RMB to the U.S. dollar. Under the new policy, the RMB is permitted to fluctuate within a narrow and managed zone against a group of foreign currencies. This change in policy has resulted in an appreciation of the RMB against the U.S. dollar during the latter half of 2008 as the U.S. dollar has depreciated against other major currencies as a result of the global economic credit crisis. While the international reaction to the RMB revaluation has generally been positive, there remains significant international pressure on the Chinese government to adopt a more flexible currency policy, which could result in a further revaluation of the RMB against other currencies, including the U.S. dollar. As our Chinese business continues to grow, a greater portion of our revenues and costs will be denominated in RMB, while our consolidated financial statements are denominated in U.S. dollars. We do not currently engage in currency hedging transactions to offset fluctuating currency exchange rates. 12 We depend upon the acquisition and maintenance of numerous approvals to conduct our business in China. Failure to obtain or renew these approvals will adversely affect our operation in China. We are dependent upon numerous approvals in China, including, without limitation, campus approvals, and program approvals, to conduct our business. While we believe that all steps necessary to obtain or maintain these approvals have been taken and will be taken, the failure to obtain or renew these approvals will have a material adverse impact on our business and financial condition. It is also possible that new laws and regulations governing the education business in China will prohibit or restrict foreign investment in the education business and operation, which could prevent us from obtaining or renewing our governmental approvals. Accordingly, we may have to cease our education business in China and you may lose your entire investment. Uncertainties with respect to the Chinese legal system could adversely affect us. Our operations in China are governed by Chinese laws and regulations. The Chinese legal system is based on written statutes. Prior court decisions may be cited for reference but are not relied upon as precedents. Since 1979, Chinese legislation and regulations have significantly enhanced the protections afforded to various forms of foreign investments in China. However, China has not developed a fully integrated legal system and recently enacted laws and regulations may not sufficiently cover all aspects of economic activities in China. In particular, because these laws and regulations are relatively new, and because of the limited published decisions and their non-binding nature, the interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations involve uncertainties. Operating in China involves a high risk that restrictive rules and regulations could change at any time. Chinese authorities could assert that any portion or all of our existing or future ownership structure and business violate existing or future Chinese laws and regulations and require us to curtail or cease our operations in China. In addition, the Chinese legal system is based in part on governmental policies and internal rules (some of which are not published on a timely basis, or at all) that may have a retroactive effect. As a result, we may not be aware of our violation of these policies and rules until after the occurrence of the violation. If Chinese authorities find us to be in violation of any Chinese laws or regulations, they would have broad discretion in dealing with such a violation, including, without limitation, the following: · levying fines; · revoking our business licenses and other approvals; · requiring us to restructure our ownership or operations; and · requiring us to discontinue any portion or all of our education business in China. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by the uncertainties of the Chinese legal system or any changes in the laws and regulations that are applicable to us. We are subject to uncertainty related to the tax systems in China and any uncertainty in taxation could negatively affect our results of operations. Through our subsidiaries, we conduct a significant amount of our business in China. China currently has a number of laws related to various taxes imposed by both national and regional governmental authorities. Applicable taxes include value added tax, corporate income tax (profits tax), and payroll (social) taxes, together with others. In contrast to more developed market economies, laws related to these taxes have not been in force for a significant period, and interpretive regulations are often unclear or nonexistent. Often, there are differing opinions regarding legal interpretation, both among and within government ministries and organizations, resulting in uncertainties and areas of conflict. Matters of taxation, customs and currency control, as well as other areas, are subject to review and investigation by a number of governmental authorities, who are enabled by law to impose extremely severe fines and penalties. Any regulatory uncertainty in taxation or other areas could negatively affect us through increased operating costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 We and our subsidiaries may not be able to enforce our agreements in China, which could have a negative impact on our operations. Chinese law governs most of our material agreements. There are substantial uncertainties regarding the interpretation and application of Chinese laws and regulations that govern the enforcement and performance of our contractual arrangements. Although we use Chinese lawyers to assist us in preparing our agreements, there can be no assurance that we can enforce any of our material agreements or that remedies will be available outside of China. China's system of laws and the enforcement of existing laws may not be as certain in implementation and interpretation as U.S. or other laws. The Chinese judiciary is relatively inexperienced in enforcing corporate and commercial law, leading to a higher than usual degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of any litigation. Even where adequate laws exist in China, it may be impossible to obtain swift and equitable enforcement of such laws. It is also difficult to enforce foreign judgments in China. The inability to enforce or obtain a remedy under any of our material agreements could have a material adverse impact on us and our results of our operations. You may face difficulties in protecting your interests, and your ability to protect your rights through the U.S. federal courts may be limited, because we conduct a significant portion of our operations in China and most of our directors and officers reside outside of the U.S. We conduct a substantial portion of our operations in China through CIBT, our wholly owned subsidiary in China. Most of our directors and officers reside outside the U.S. and some or most of the assets of those persons are located outside the U.S. As a result, it may be difficult or impossible for you to bring an action against us or against these individuals outside the U.S. in the event that you believe that your rights have been infringed under applicable securities law or otherwise. A judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities would probably be enforceable in Canada by a Canadian court if the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained had jurisdiction, as determined by the Canadian court, in the matter. There is substantial doubt whether an original action could be brought successfully in Canada against us or any of our directors and officers predicated solely upon such civil liabilities. A judgment of a U.S. court predicated solely upon such civil liabilities may not be enforceable in China by a Chinese court. China does not have treaties with the U.S. providing for the reciprocal recognition and enforcement of the judgments of foreign courts. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of China may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Consequently, you may experience difficulties in effecting service of legal process or enforcing foreign judgments based on U.S. or other foreign laws against us or our management. Adverse changes in economic and political policies of the Chinese government could have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China, which could adversely affect our business. We expect an increasing portion of our operations as an education service provider to be conducted in China. As such, our results of operations, financial condition and prospects will be affected, on an increasingly significant basis, by economic, political and legal developments in China. China’s economy differs from the economies of most developed countries in many respects, including the amount of government involvement, level of development, growth rate, control of foreign exchange and allocation of resources. The economy of China is a planned economy subject to five-year and annual plans adopted by the government that set down national economic development goals. Policies of the Chinese government can have significant impact on the country’s economic conditions. The Chinese government has confirmed that economic development will follow a model of a market economy under a socialist regime. We believe that in the future, the Chinese government will continue to strengthen its economic and trading relationships with foreign countries and business development in China will follow market forces. However, a change in economic and political policies may adversely affect our business, prospects and financial condition, to a material extent. For example, since early 2005, the Chinese government has implemented certain measures to control the pace of economic growth. Such measures may cause a decrease in the level of economic activity in China, which in turn could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 We are subject to limitations on our ability to convert Chinese currency. China's national currency, the “Yuan” or “RMB”, is not a freely convertible currency. The Chinese government imposes controls on the conversion of RMB to foreign currencies and, in certain cases, the remittance of currencies out of China. As our Chinese business expands, we expect to derive an increasing percentage of our revenues in RMB. Under our current structure, we expect our income will be primarily derived from our Chinese subsidiary, CIBT. Shortages in the availability of foreign currency may restrict the ability of our Chinese subsidiary and our affiliated entities to remit sufficient foreign currency to make payments to us, or otherwise satisfy their foreign currency denominated obligations. Under existing Chinese foreign exchange regulations, payments of current account items, including profit distributions, interest payments and expenditures from trade-related transactions, can be made in foreign currencies without prior approval from the Chinese State Administration of Foreign Exchange by complying with certain procedural requirements. However, approval from appropriate government authorities is required when RMB is to be converted into foreign currency and remitted out of China to pay capital expenses such as the repayment of bank loans denominated in foreign currencies. The Chinese government may also at its discretion restrict access in the future to foreign currencies for current account transactions. The foreign exchange control system may prevent us from obtaining sufficient foreign currency to satisfy our demands, which may adversely affect our business and development. We expect that any significant revaluation of RMB may materially and adversely affect our cash flows, revenues, earnings and financial position, and the value of our Common stock denominated in Canadian or U.S. dollars. For example, an appreciation of RMB against the U.S. dollar would make any new RMB denominated investments or expenditures more costly to us, to the extent that we need to convert Canadian or U.S. dollars into RMB for such purposes. Our Chinese business may fail due to loss of our CIBT center facility providers and educational service providers. We are heavily dependent on facilities and services provided by certain of our third party service providers (“educational service providers”) in China and the U.S. Since June 2007 we have started to establish mini-campuses to deliver our programs via video conferencing (“CIBT centers”). We plan to have established over 50 teaching locations in China by 2010, so we will be heavily dependent on facilities provided by certain third party universities or colleges (“CIBT center facility providers”) to set up our CIBT centers. We cannot be assured that the cooperation agreements with the educational service providers and CIBT center facility providers will continue on terms acceptable to us or not be revoked by them. Also, our Chinese business is indirectly based on the success of our educational service providers and CIBT center facility providers. If we lose our current educational service providers and CIBT center facility providers, we may be unable to enter into similar cooperation agreements with other parties to provide us with campuses, facilities, or services on acceptable terms, and this may materially and adversely affect our operations. Operating Risks The slowdown of economic growth in Canada, China and elsewhere could negatively affect our profitability and growth. While the Chinese economy has experienced rapid growth over the past decade, the pace of such growth has been slowing over the past year at an accelerating rate. The Chinese government is reducing interest rates, but the effect of this and other measures in light of the global economic credit crisis, and the reduced availability of credit, are uncertain. If China’s economy continues to slow at an accelerated pace, unemployment could increase which may impact the ability of our graduates to secure positions in the workforce. This could have a material adverse impact on the demand for enrollment in our programs, which could in turn adversely impact our business and profitability. In Canada, the economic downturn may also impact the demand for the educational programs offered by Sprott-Shaw; however, it we may also benefit as more people seek to upgrade their skills or retrain. This may generate higher demand for our courses and programs, thereby increasing our revenues. IRIX’s business may be negatively impacted as clients seek to reduce the amount spent on marketing and advertising campaigns and pursue less methods of advertising. 15 Our operations are subject to various litigation risks that could increase our expenses, impact our profitability and lower the value of your investment in us. Although we are not currently involved in any litigation, the nature of our operations exposes us to possible future litigation claims. There is a risk that any claim could be adversely decided against us, which could harm our financial condition and results of operations. Similarly, the costs associated with defending against any claim could dramatically increase our expenses, as litigation is often very expensive. Possible litigation matters may include, but are not limited to, workers’ compensation, insurance coverage, property rights or injuries to students in our facilities. Should we become involved in any litigation we will be forced to direct our limited resources to defending against or prosecuting the claim(s), which could impact our profitability and lower the value of your investment in us. Loss of certain key personnel may adversely impact our business. The success of our business will depend on the management skills of Toby Chu, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Tim Leong, our Chief Financial Officer, and the relationships they have with educators, administrators and other business contacts they have in China and North America. The loss of the services of any of our key personnel could impair our ability to successfully manage our business in China and Canada. We also depend on successfully recruiting and retaining qualified and experienced managers, sales persons and other personnel who can function effectively in China and Canada. In some cases, the market for these skilled employees is highly competitive. We may not be able to retain or recruit such personnel on acceptable terms to us, which could adversely affect our business prospects and financial condition. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to keep pace with changing market needs. Our success significantly depends on acceptance of our programs by prospective students or employers. Economic and employment markets are developing rapidly. If we are unable to adequately respond to changes in market requirements, the rates at which our graduates obtain jobs could suffer and thus our ability to attract and retain students could be impaired. Accordingly, it is important for us to develop our programs or create new programs in response to changes in the economic and employment markets. We may not have enough funds to develop our current programs or create new programs. Even if we are able to expand our current programs or develop acceptable new programs, we may not be able to begin offering these new programs as quickly as our competitors offer similar programs. The markets in which we will compete are intensely competitive and we may not be able to compete successfully. The education and advertising markets in which we compete are intensely competitive. We expect significant competition from the existing competitors in the education and advertising markets, most of which are substantially larger and have greater operating histories and records of successful operations; greater financial resources, technical expertise, managerial capabilities and other resources; more employees; and more extensive facilities than we have or will have in the foreseeable future. Our operation may fail due to our inability to compete with existing competitors in these rapidly changing markets. 16 We may need additional capital to fully carry out our proposed expansion plan, and we may not be able to further implement our business strategy unless sufficient funds are raised, which could cause us to scale back our proposed plan or discontinue our expansion. We will require significant expenditures of capital in order to carry out our full expansion plan. We estimate that we will need financing of approximately $7 million to complete our proposed expansion plan for the next year. We had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $10.2 million as of August 31, 2008. We believe we can generate net revenues and net profit over the next 12 months; however, we may need financing in excess of the planned amount of $7 million if we dramatically underestimate the costs involved with expanding. Should this occur, we plan to obtain the necessary funds by private placements or loans, if need be. We may not be able to raise those amounts from our planned sources. If we are not able to obtain the necessary additional financing, we may be forced to scale back our expansion plans or eliminate them altogether. Expending our cash resources on expansions could also negatively impact our current operations by reducing the amount of funds available to cover additional expenses that may arise in the future or offset losses should we suffer a decrease in revenues. Our ability to obtain additional financing is subject to a number of factors, including the market condition and their impact on the market price of our common stock, the downturn in the global economy and resulting impact on stock markets and investor sentiment, our competitive ability, investor acceptance of our business or our expansion plan, the political and economic environments of countries where we are doing business. These factors may make the timing, amount, terms and conditions of additional financing unattractive or unavailable to us. If we are unable to raise additional financing, we will have to significantly reduce, delay or cancel our planned activities. We cannot assure you that we will have sufficient resources to successfully conduct our expansion, or that we will be able to obtain any additional funding required, in which event we may not be able to continue our expansion or our expansion plan may fail. The expansion of our business through acquisitions, joint ventures, and other strategic transactions creates risks that may reduce the benefits we anticipate from these strategic transactions. We intend to enter into acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic transactions, through CIBT Education Group or our subsidiaries CIBT or Sprott-Shaw, as a vehicle to build new campuses or schools to expand our education business in China and other countries. We are always seeking out new business acquisitions, partnership opportunities and joint ventures to expand our operations. Our management is unable to predict whether or when any other future strategic transactions will occur or the likelihood of any particular transaction being completed on favorable terms and conditions. Acquisitions, joint ventures or other strategic transactions may present financial, managerial and operational challenges. We may be exposed to successor liability relating to prior actions involving a predecessor company, or contingent liabilities incurred before a strategic transaction. Liabilities associated with an acquisition or a strategic transaction could adversely affect our financial performance. Any failure to integrate new businesses or manage any new alliances successfully could adversely affect our reputation and financial performance. Our advertising and graphic design business may be adversely impacted by an economic downturn. Advertising and graphic design companies, in general, are dependent upon economic conditions. Historically, advertising revenues have increased with the beginning of an economic recovery, principally with increases in advertising by the banking financial, insurance and securities industries. Decreases in advertising revenues have historically corresponded with regional or national recessionary conditions. Our advertising revenues from the real estate industry constituted approximately 50% of IRIX’s overall revenues. A reduction in demand for advertising in the real estate and other industries could result from a decline in economic conditions and thus a decline in the amount spent on advertising in general. As a result, our actual consolidated results of operations may be adversely impacted by a decline in economic conditions. IRIX currently depends on a large portion of Asian customers and the loss of, or a significant reduction from Asian customers would significantly reduce our revenues from advertising and graphic design, and adversely impact our consolidated operating results. A large portion of our customers in the advertising and graphic design business are people of Asian descent in Vancouver, BC, or are related to or affiliated with people of Asian descent in Vancouver, BC. Should there be a downturn in the immigration environment in Vancouver, BC, this could cause us to lose customers and negatively impact our advertising revenues. We may not be able to maintain our current Asian customers. We cannot be certain that we can develop new customers or expand our customer base. This could cause our operating results to decline. Therefore, a loss of our Asian customers would materially reduce our revenues from our advertising and graphic design and adversely impact our consolidated operating results. 17 Risks Related to Our Securities The issuance of shares upon the exercise of options and warrants may cause immediate dilution to our existing shareholders. The issuance of shares upon the exercise of options and warrants may result in dilution to the interests of other stockholders. As of August 31, 2008, there were outstanding options to purchase 4,535,000 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from C$0.50 to C$2.00 (US $0.47 to $2.13) per share, with expiry dates ranging from 2008 to 2012; a total of 2,657,500 of these outstanding options were exercisable as at August 31, 2008. There were outstanding warrants to purchase 5,420,385 shares of our common stock at exercise prices ranging from C$0.75 to C$2.25 (US $0.80 to $2.40) per share, with expiry dates ranging from 2009 to 2010. If all outstanding options and warrants were exercised, our issued and outstanding share capital would increase by 9,955,385 shares, or approximately 16% based on 64,109,297 shares of our common stock outstanding as of August 31, 2008. This would result in an immediate dilution to our existing shareholders. Conversion of the outstanding options and warrants may also depress the price of our common stock, which may cause investors or lenders to reconsider investing in us and thus adversely affect our financing efforts. Since our directors, officers and business assets are located in Canada and overseas, you may be limited in your ability to enforce U.S. civil actions against them. You may not be able to receive compensation for damages to the value of your investment caused by wrongful actions by our directors. Our business assets are located in Canada and overseas, and our directors and officer are residents of Canada. Consequently, it may be difficult for U.S. investors to affect service of process on our directors or officers within the United States or to enforce a civil judgment of a U.S. court in Canada or other countries in which we operated if a court in such other jurisdictions, including Canada, determines that the U.S. court in which the judgment was obtained did not have jurisdiction in the matter. There is also substantial doubt whether an original action predicated solely upon civil liability may successfully be brought in Canada or another country against any of our directors, officers or assets. As a result, you may not be able to recover damages as compensation for a decline in the value of your investment. Our stock is considered a penny stock and is traded on the TSX Venture and the NYSE Amex, which are speculative in nature. You may have difficulty reselling your shares or the price of your shares could decline. The TSX Venture and the NYSE Amex are known as a risk capital exchanges where shares of speculative companies are often brought to market and traded. The liquidity and depth of the market of the TSX Venture and NYSE Alternext may be dependent upon a substantial number of factors including the economies in Canada and the United States, the desire of investors to enter into a speculative market, and the desire of broker-dealers to sell penny stocks. This may affect the pricing of our securities. Our shares are classified as penny stocks and are covered by Section 15(g) of the Exchange Act, which imposes additional sales practice requirements on brokers-dealers who sell our securities in the aftermarket. For sales of our securities, the broker-dealer must make a special suitability determination and receive from you a written agreement prior to making a sale for you. The additional sales practice and disclosure requirements imposed upon broker-dealers may discourage broker-dealers from effecting transactions in our shares, which could severely limit the market liquidity of our shares and impede their resale in the secondary market. This could prevent you from reselling your shares and may cause the price of the shares to decline. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice requirements may also limit your ability to buy and sell our stock, which could depress our share price. FINRA rules require that in recommending an investment to a customer, a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the investment is suitable for that customer. Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to obtain information about the customer’s financial status, tax status, investment objectives and other information. Under interpretations of these rules, FINRA believes that there is a high probability that speculative low priced securities will not be suitable for at least some customers. FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your ability to buy and sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market for our shares, depressing our share price. 18 We do not intend to pay dividends and there will be less ways in which you can make a gain on any investment in us. We have never paid any cash dividends and currently do not intend to pay any dividends for the foreseeable future. To the extent that we require additional funding currently not provided for in our financing plan, our funding sources may likely prohibit the payment of dividends. Because we do not intend to declare dividends, any gain on an investment in us will need to come through appreciation of our stock price. We indemnify our directors and officers against liability to CIBT Education Group and our stockholders, and the costs of this indemnification could negatively affect our operating results. Our articles of incorporation allow us to indemnify our officers and our directors for liability arising while they are carrying out their respective duties. Our articles of incorporation also allow for reimbursement of certain legal defenses. As to indemnification for liabilities arising under the Securities Act for directors, officers or persons controlling us, we have been informed that in the opinion of the SEC such indemnification is against public policy and unenforceable. Since our directors and officers are aware that they may be indemnified for carrying out the duties of their offices, they may be less motivated to ensure that they meet the standards required by law to properly carry out their duties, which could have a negative impact on our operating results. If any director or officer claims against us for indemnification, the costs could negatively impact our operating results. Fluctuation and impairment of marketable securities will materially impact our net income and thus, our stock price. We are required to value our marketable securities holdings at market value, instead of at the lower of cost and market value (in Canada this change in accounting policy took effect on July 1, 2007; such requirements were already in effect under U.S. GAAP). Fluctuation of the market price of marketable securities could adversely impact our net income. As of August 31, 2008, we owned 5,862,824 common shares representing approximately 7% of NextMart Inc., formerly Sun New Media Inc. (OTCBB: NXMR), having a market value of approximately $175,885. The quoted market value of our 5,862,824 common shares in NextMart Inc. declined to $0.03 at August 31, 2008, which resulted in us recognizing an impairment of the carrying value of the NextMart shares of $525,518 under U.S. GAAP ($1,348,168 under Canadian GAAP) to recognize the lower market value of our investment under the new valuation method. We have no control over the market price of marketable securities in other companies held by us and cannot predict the possible impact to our financial results. Since our investment in marketable securities is concentrated in the common stock of a single company, a decline in the price of these shares may produce a material decrease in our net income and thus, our stock price. 19 