Item 1A. Risk Factors Many factors could have an effect on PWI’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. We are subject to various risks resulting from changing economic, environmental, political, industry, business and financial conditions. The principal factors are described below. Risks related to our business and our industry We face substantial competition from other securities and commodities processing and infrastructure firms, which could harm our financial performance and reduce our market share. The market for securities and futures processing infrastructure products and services is rapidly evolving and highly competitive. We compete with a number of firms that provide similar products and services to our market. Our competitors include Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing, L.P.; Pershing LLC, a member of BNY Securities Group; National Financial Services LLC, a Fidelity Investments company; Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Bank of America, MF Global Ltd. (formerly Man Financial) and RJ Obrien & Associates LLC. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we have. Some of our competitors also offer a wider range of services and financial products than we do and have greater name recognition and more extensive client bases than ours. These competitors may be able to respond more quickly to new or changing opportunities, technologies and client requirements and may be able to undertake more extensive promotional activities, offer more attractive terms to clients and adopt more aggressive pricing policies than ours. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors. If we fail to compete effectively, our market share could decrease and our business, financial condition and operating results could be materially harmed. Increased competition has contributed to the decline in net clearing revenue per transaction that we have experienced in recent years and may continue to create downward pressure on our net clearing revenue per transaction. In the past, we have responded to the decline in net clearing revenue by reducing our expenses, but if the decline continues, we may be unable to reduce our expenses at a comparable rate. Our failure to reduce expenses comparably would reduce our profit margins. We depend on a limited number of clients for a significant portion of our clearing revenues. Our ten largest current clients accounted for 27.0% of our total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2008, while no client accounted for more than 4.8% of net revenues. The loss of even a small number of these clients at any one time could cause our revenues to decline. Our clearing contracts generally have an initial term of two years, and allow the correspondent to cancel our services upon providing us with 45 days of notice, in most cases after the expiration of the fixed term. Many of our futures clearing contracts with correspondents may be terminated with a 30-day notice. Our clearing contracts with these correspondents can also terminate automatically if we are 22 Table of Contents suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. In past periods, we have experienced temporary declines in our revenues when large clients have switched to other service providers. There can be no assurance that our largest clients will continue to use our products and services. Our clearing operations could expose us to legal liability for errors in performing clearing functions and improper activities of our correspondents. Any intentional failure or negligence in properly performing our clearing functions or any mishandling of funds and securities held by us on behalf of our correspondents and their customers could lead to censures, fines or other sanctions by applicable authorities as well as actions in tort brought by parties who are financially harmed by those failures or mishandlings. Any litigation that arises as a result of our clearing operations could harm our reputation and cause us to incur substantial expenses associated with litigation and damage awards that could exceed our liability insurance by unknown but significant amounts. In the normal course of business, we purchase and sell securities as both principal and agent. If another party to the transaction fails to fulfill its contractual obligations, we may incur a loss if the market value of the security is different from the contract amount of the transaction. In the past, clearing firms in the U.S. have been held liable for failing to take action upon the receipt of customer complaints, failing to know about the suspicious activities of correspondents or their customers under circumstances where they should have known, and even aiding and abetting, or causing, the improper activities of their correspondents. Although our correspondents provide us with indemnity under our contracts, we cannot assure you that our procedures will be sufficient to properly monitor our correspondents or protect us from liability for the acts of our correspondents under current laws and regulations or that securities industry regulators will not enact more restrictive laws or regulations or change their interpretations of current laws and regulations. If we fail to implement proper procedures or fail to adapt our existing procedures to new or more restrictive regulations, we may be subject to liability that could result in substantial costs to us and distract our management from our business. Sharp decreases in short-term interest rates have negatively impacted the profitability of our margin lending business. The profitability of our margin lending activities depends to a great extent on the difference between interest income earned on margin loans and investments of customer cash and the interest expense paid on customer cash balances and borrowings. While they are not linearly connected, if short-term interest rates fall, we generally expect to receive a smaller gross interest spread, causing the profitability of our margin lending and other interest-sensitive revenue sources to decline. Recent decreases in short-term interest rates have contributed to a decrease in our profitability and will continue to do so while lower rates continue to be in effect. Assuming constant customer balances, we expect that a 25 bps change in the federal funds rate would affect our pre-tax income by approximately $750,000 per quarter. Short-term interest rates are highly sensitive to factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions and the policies of various governmental and regulatory authorities. In particular, decreases in the federal funds rate by the Federal Reserve usually lead to decreasing interest rates in the U.S., which generally lead to a decrease in the gross spread we earn. This is most significant when the federal funds rate is on the lower end of its historical range, as it is today. Interest rates in Canada and Europe are also subject to fluctuations based on governmental policies and economic factors and these fluctuations could also affect the profitability of our margin lending operations in these markets. Our margin lending business subjects us to credit risks and if we are unable to liquidate an investor’s securities when the margin collateral becomes insufficient, the profitability of our business may suffer. We provide margin loans to investors; therefore, we are subject to risks inherent in extending credit. As of December 31, 2008, our receivables from customers and correspondents were $822.3 million, which predominantly reflected margin loans. Our credit risks include the risk that the value of the collateral we hold could fall below the amount of an investor’s indebtedness. This risk is especially great when the market is rapidly declining. Agreements 23 Table of Contents with margin account investors permit us to liquidate their securities with or without prior notice in the event that the amount of margin collateral becomes insufficient. Despite those agreements and our house policies with respect to margin, which may be more restrictive than is required under applicable laws and regulations, we may be unable to liquidate the customers’ securities for various reasons, including the fact that: • the pledged securities may not be actively traded; • there may be an undue concentration of securities pledged; or • an order to stop transfer by the issuer of securities may be issued with regard to pledged securities. In the U.S., our margin lending is subject to the margin rules of the Federal Reserve and FINRA, whose rules generally permit margin loans of up to 50% of the value of the securities collateralizing the margin account loan at the time the loan is made, subject to requirements that the customer deposit additional securities or cash in its accounts so that the customers’ equity in the account is at least 25% of the value of the securities in the account. We are also subject to rules and regulations in Canada and the U.K. with regard to our margin lending activities in those markets. In certain circumstances, we may provide a higher degree of margin leverage to our correspondents with respect to their proprietary trading businesses than otherwise permitted by the margin rules described above based on an exemption for correspondents that purchase a class of preferred stock of PFSI. In addition, for our portfolio margining accounts, we are able to extend substantially more credit to approved customers pursuant to a risk formula adopted by the SEC. As a result, we may increase the risks otherwise associated with margin lending with respect to these correspondents and customer accounts. We rely, in part, on third parties to provide and support the software and systems we use to provide our services. Any interruption or cessation of service by these third parties could harm our business. We have contracted with SunGard Data Systems and IBM Canada Limited (“IBM Canada”) to provide a major portion of the software and systems necessary for our execution and clearing services. On September 25, 2008, we entered into an amendment to our current agreement with SunGard that requires SunGard to provide a dedicated non-stop processing platform for the processing of our U.S. clearing operations. Our current agreement with SunGard will expire in the first or second quarter of 2014, depending upon when certain new pricing terms under the amendment become effective, but can be terminated by SunGard upon written notice in the event that we breach the agreement. Our current agreement with IBM Canada which expired in December 2008, is currently operating on a month-to-month basis. We expect to renew our agreement with IBM Canada during the first or second quarter of 2009. The agreement with IBM Canada can be terminated by IBM Canada upon written notice in the event that we breach the agreement. In the past, we have experienced processing delays, occasional hardware and software outages with SunGard and IBM Canada. Any major interruption in our ability to process our transactions through SunGard or IBM Canada would harm our relationships with our clients and impact our growth. We also license many additional generally available software packages. Failures in any of these applications could also harm our business operations. We rely on SunGard, IBM Canada and other third parties to enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. We believe that the provision of a dedicated non-stop processing platform by SunGard will allow us to process the U.S. trade volume we anticipate for 2009 and beyond. If in the future, however, enhancements or upgrades of third-party software and systems cannot be integrated with our technologies or if the technologies on which we rely fail to respond to industry standards or technological changes, we may be required to redesign our proprietary systems. Software products may contain defects or errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions or enhancements are released. The inability of third parties to supply us with software or systems on a reliable, timely basis or to allocate sufficient capacity to meet our trading volume requirements could harm relationships with our clients and our ability to achieve our projected level of growth. 24 Table of Contents Our products and services, and the products and services provided to us by third parties, may infringe upon intellectual property rights of third parties, and any infringement claims could require us to incur substantial costs, distract our management or prevent us from conducting our business. Although we attempt to avoid infringing upon known proprietary rights of third parties and typically incorporate indemnification provisions in any agreements where we license third party software, we are subject to the risk of claims alleging infringement of third-party proprietary rights. If we infringe upon the rights of third parties through use of our proprietary software or software licensed to us by third parties, we may be unable to obtain licenses to use those or similar rights on commercially reasonable terms. In either of these events, we would need to undertake substantial reengineering to continue offering our services and may not be successful. In addition, any claim of infringement could cause us to incur substantial costs defending the claim, even if the claim is invalid, and could distract our management from our business. Furthermore, a party making such a claim could secure a judgment that requires us to pay substantial damages. A judgment could also include an injunction or other court order that could prevent us from conducting our business. We may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized use and infringement by third parties, and our failure to do so may weaken our competitive position, and any legal claim we seek to pursue may require us to incur substantial cost and distract management and us from conducting our business. Despite the precautions we take to protect our intellectual property rights, it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our proprietary technology without authorization or otherwise infringe upon our proprietary rights. It is also possible that third parties may independently develop technologies similar to ours. It may be difficult for us to police unauthorized use of our intellectual property. We cannot be certain that our intellectual property rights are sufficiently protected against unauthorized use and infringement by third parties, and our failure to do so may weaken our competitive position. In addition, litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights and to protect our trade secrets, which may require us to incur substantial cost and distract our management and us from conducting our business. See also “Business — Intellectual property and other proprietary rights.” If our clients’ account information is misappropriated, we may be held liable or suffer harm to our reputation. We employ what we believe to be a high degree of care in protecting our clients’ confidential information. To effect secure transmissions of confidential information over computer systems and the Internet, we rely on encryption and authentication technology. If third parties penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate our clients’ personal or account information, or we were to otherwise release any such confidential information without our clients’ permission, unintentionally or otherwise, we could be subject to liability arising from claims related to impersonation or similar fraud claims or other misuse of personal information, as well as suffer harm to our reputation. While we periodically test the integrity and security of our systems, we cannot assure you that our efforts to maintain the confidentiality of our clients’ account information will be successful. Internet security concerns have been a barrier to the acceptance of online trading, and any well-publicized compromise of security could hinder the growth of the online brokerage industry. We cannot assure you that advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other events or developments will not result in a compromise or breach of the technology we use to protect clients’ transactions and account data. We may incur significant costs to protect against the threat of network or Internet security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by such breaches. We may be subject to material litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We are subject from time-to-time to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, customer, and other issues on a global basis, based on our activity or the activity of our correspondents. As described in “Item 3: Legal Proceedings,” we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. These matters include our involvement in a bankruptcy proceeding concerning Sentinel Management Group, Inc. (“Sentinel”), which is 25 Table of Contents described in detail in Item 3. The bankruptcy trustee in this matter is seeking the return of pre- and post-bankruptcy petition transfers made to Penson GHCO and PFFI, to which we have objected. We intend to vigorously defend this position, but we are not able to predict the outcome of this dispute at this time. In the event that Penson GHCO and PFFI are obligated to return a substantial portion of previously distributed funds to the Sentinel estate, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results for the period in which the payment is made. Litigation generally is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings can occur. An unfavorable ruling in any matter could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from providing clearing or technology services. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Any slowdown or failure of our computer or communications systems could subject us to liability for losses suffered by our clients or their customers. Our services depend on our ability to store, retrieve, process and manage significant databases, and to receive and process securities and futures orders through a variety of electronic media. Our principal computer equipment and software systems, including back up systems, are maintained at various locations such as Texas, Chicago, New Jersey, Toronto, Montreal and London. Our systems or any other systems in the trading process could slow down significantly or fail for a variety of reasons, including: • computer viruses or undetected errors in our internal software programs or computer systems; • inability to rapidly monitor all intraday trading activity; • inability to effectively resolve any errors in our internal software programs or computer systems once they are detected; • heavy stress placed on our systems during peak trading times; or • power or telecommunications failure, fire, tornado or any other natural disaster. The average daily trade volume generated by our correspondents increased dramatically from 2006 to 2008. We believe that the additional software we licensed and changes we made to our operating procedures allowed us to accommodate the increased volume. While we continue to monitor system loads and performance and implement system upgrades to handle predicted increases in trading volume and volatility, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict future volume increases or volatility or that our systems will be able to accommodate these volume increases or volatility without failure or degradation. Any significant degradation or failure of our computer systems, communications systems or any other systems in the clearing or trading processes could cause the customers of our clients to suffer delays in the execution of their trades. These delays could cause substantial losses for our clients or their customers and could subject us to claims and losses, including litigation claiming fraud or negligence, damage our reputation, increase our service costs, cause us to lose revenues or divert our technical resources. If our operational systems and infrastructure fail to keep pace with our anticipated growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, client dissatisfaction and lost revenue opportunities. We have experienced significant growth in our client base, business activities and the number of our employees. The growth of our business and expansion of our client base has placed, and will continue to place, a significant strain on our management and operations. We believe that our current and anticipated future growth will require the implementation of new and enhanced communications and information systems, the training of personnel to operate these systems and the expansion and upgrade of core technologies. While many of our systems are designed to accommodate additional growth without redesign or replacement, we may nevertheless need to make significant investments in additional hardware and software to accommodate growth. In addition, we cannot assure you that we will be able to accurately predict the timing or rate of this growth or expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure on a timely basis. In addition, the scope of procedures for assuring compliance with applicable rules and regulations has changed as the size and complexity of our business has increased. We have implemented and continue to implement formal 26 Table of Contents compliance procedures to respond to these changes and the impact of our growth. Our future operating results will depend on our ability: • to improve our systems for operations, financial controls, and communication and information management; • to refine our compliance procedures and enhance our compliance oversight; and • to recruit, train, manage and retain our employees. Our growth has required and will continue to require increased investments in management personnel and systems, financial systems and controls and office facilities. In the absence of continued revenue growth, the costs associated with these investments would cause our operating margins to decline from current levels. We cannot assure you that we will be able to manage or continue to manage our recent or future growth successfully. If we fail to manage our growth, we may experience operating inefficiencies, dissatisfaction among our client base and lost revenue opportunities. A failure in the operational systems of third parties could significantly disrupt our business and cause losses. We face the risk of operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses and other financial intermediaries, which has increased our exposure to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our ability to find adequate and cost-effective alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or constraint. Any such failure, termination or constraint could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients and manage our exposure to risk. If we are unable to respond to the demands of our existing and new clients, our ability to reach our revenue goals or maintain our profitability could be diminished. The global securities and futures industry is characterized by increasingly complex infrastructures and products, new and changing business models and rapid technological changes. Our clients’ needs and demands for our products and services evolve with these changes. For example, an increasing number of our clients are from market segments including hedge funds, algorithmic traders and direct access customers who demand increasingly sophisticated products. Our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to respond to our clients’ demands for new services, products and technologies on a timely and cost-effective basis, to adapt to technological advancements and changing standards and to address the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. Our existing correspondents may choose to perform their own clearing services as their operations grow, in which case we would lose the revenues generated by such correspondents. We market our clearing services to our existing correspondents on the strength of our ability to process transactions and perform related back-office functions at a lower cost than the correspondents could perform these functions themselves. As our correspondents’ operations grow, they often consider the option of performing clearing functions themselves, in a process referred to in the securities industry as “self-clearing.” As the transaction volume of a correspondent grows, the cost of implementing the necessary infrastructure for self-clearing may be eventually offset by the elimination of per-transaction processing fees that would otherwise be paid to a clearing firm. Additionally, performing their own clearing services allows self-clearing firms to retain their customers’ margin balances, free credit balances and securities for use in margin lending activities. If our clients choose to self-clear, we would lose their revenue and our business could be adversely affected. Our ability to sell our services and grow our business could be significantly impaired if we lose the services of key personnel. Our business is highly dependent on a small number of key executive officers. We have entered into compensation agreements with various personnel, but we do not have employment agreements with most of 27 Table of Contents our employees. The loss of the services of any of the key personnel or the inability to identify, hire, train and retain other qualified personnel in the future could harm our business. Competition for key personnel and other highly qualified technical and managerial personnel in the securities and futures processing infrastructure industry is intense, and there is no assurance that we would be able to recruit management personnel to replace these individuals in a timely manner, or at all, on acceptable terms. We may face risks associated with potential future acquisitions that could reduce our profitability or hinder our ability to successfully expand our operations. Over the past few years, our business strategy has included engaging in acquisitions which have facilitated our ability to provide technology infrastructure and establish a presence in international markets. We have completed four acquisitions since 2006, including the acquisitions of GHCO and FCG in 2007, which significantly expanded our futures business. In the future, we plan to acquire additional businesses or technologies as part of our growth strategy. We cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully integrate future acquisitions, which potentially involve the following risks: • diversion of management’s time and attention to the negotiation of the acquisitions; • difficulties in assimilating acquired businesses, technologies, operations and personnel including, but not limited to, the increased trade volume of acquired businesses; • the need to modify financial and other systems and to add management resources; • assumption of unknown liabilities of the acquired businesses; • unforeseen difficulties in the acquired operations and disruption of our ongoing business; • dilution to our existing stockholders due to the issuance of equity securities, which may make it difficult for us to raise capital in equity financing in the future; • possible adverse short-term effects on our cash flows or operating results; and • possible accounting charges due to impairment of goodwill or other purchased intangible assets. Failure to manage our acquisitions to avoid these risks could harm our business, financial condition and operating results. Restrictive covenants in our credit facilities may limit our ability to engage in certain transactions. Our credit facility contains various covenants that limit our ability to engage in specified types of transactions. These covenants limit our ability to, among other things, incur additional indebtedness or issue preferred stock, pay dividends on or make other distributions on or repurchase our capital stock or make other restricted payments, make investments, and sell certain assets. In 2007, we deemed it to be in the best interests of our stockholders to commence a stock repurchase program, and obtained bank approval to repurchase up to $37.5 million of our common stock. We have not determined that an additional stock repurchase program would be advisable at this time, but if we were to do so, we cannot assure you that we will be able to gain all necessary approvals for any such program. In addition, the credit facility contains covenants that require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. Our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not be able to meet those tests at all. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default under the credit facility. Upon the occurrence of an event of default under the credit facility, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under the credit facility to be immediately due and payable and terminate all commitments to extend further credit. If the lenders under the credit facility accelerated the repayment of borrowings, we may not have sufficient assets to repay the credit facility which could have a material adverse effect on the value of our stock. 28 Table of Contents Our inability to obtain credit on favorable terms could significantly restrict our business activities Our primary credit facility is set to expire in May 2009. There is no guarantee that we will be able to renew our credit facility or obtain credit from an alternative source on favorable terms. Failure to renew our existing credit facility or obtain suitable alternative funding may significantly curtail our business activities, which will have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition. Our revenues may decrease due to declines in trading volume, market prices, liquidity of securities markets or proprietary trading activity. We generate revenues primarily from transaction processing fees we earn from our clearing operations and interest income from our margin lending activities and interest earned by investing customers’ cash. These revenue sources are substantially dependent on customer trading volumes, market prices and liquidity of securities markets. Over the past several years the U.S. and foreign securities markets have experienced significant volatility. Sudden or gradual but sustained declines in market values of securities can result in: • reduced trading activity; • illiquid markets; • declines in the market values of securities carried by our customers and correspondents; • the failure of buyers and sellers of securities to fulfill their settlement obligations; • reduced margin loan balances of investors; and • increases in claims and litigation. The occurrence of any of these events would likely result in reduced revenues and decreased profitability from our clearing operations and margin lending activities. Certain of our subsidiaries engage in proprietary trading activities. Please see our discussion in “Business — Securities-processing” and “Proprietary trading.” Historically these activities have accounted for a very small portion of our total revenues and net income. With respect to most of such trading, we endeavor to limit our exposure to markets through, among other means, employing hedging strategies and by limiting the period of time for which we have exposure to markets. However, we are not completely protected against market risk from such trading at any particular point in time and proprietary trading risks could adversely impact operating results in a specific financial period. Recent market instability could negatively affect our operations and financial condition. Our business is affected by conditions in the global financial markets and economic conditions generally, as well as by the soundness of particular financial services institutions with which we transact business. Among other things, national and international markets have recently suffered increasing turmoil caused by a sharp downturn in markets for mortgage-related securities and non-investment grade debt securities and loans. Several large financial institutions including, without limitation, commercial banks, insurance companies, and brokerage firms, have either filed for bankruptcy or been the subject of governmental intervention such as loans, equity infusions or direct government ownership in receivership. Others have been sold in whole or in part to third parties. Financial services institutions that deal with each other are often interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. As a result, a default or failure by, or even concerns about the stability or liquidity of, one or more financial services institutions could lead to significant market-wide liquidity problems, or losses or defaults by other institutions, including us. In addition, our operations may suffer to the extent that ongoing market volatility causes individuals and institutional traders and other market participants to curtail or forego trading activities, which could adversely affect our operations and financial conditions. 29 Table of Contents Our significant non-U.S. operation exposes us to global exchange rate fluctuations that could impact our profitability. We are exposed to market risk through commercial and financial operations. Our market risk consists principally of exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange and interest rates. As we conduct a significant portion of our operations outside the U.S., fluctuations in currencies of other countries, especially the British Pound, the Euro and the Canadian dollar, may materially affect our operating results. As we continue to expand our business operations globally, our exposure to fluctuations in currencies of other countries will continue to increase. We do not typically use financial instruments to hedge our income statement exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. A substantial portion of our revenues and cost of operating expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. In our consolidated financial statements, we translate our local currency financial results into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period and financial position based on the exchange rate at the end of that period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, at a constant level of business, our reported international revenues, earnings, assets and liabilities will be reduced because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. Given the volatility of exchange rates, we may not be able to manage our currency transaction and/or translation risks effectively, or volatility in currency exchange rates may expose our financial condition or results of operations to a significant additional risk. The growth of electronic trading and our increasing provision of direct market access to our correspondents may subject us to additional market exposure. The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new products and technologies presents certain additional challenges. As we increasingly allow direct market access to our correspondents through our systems and as we allow certain of our correspondents to clear or execute some or all of their trades through third parties, we may face additional potential liabilities due to our inability to monitor all of the trading activities of our correspondents. If we cannot adequately assess the risks involved with all of the trading activities of our correspondents, we may be unable to protect ourselves from those risks. New short-selling requirements could increase our costs, adversely affect our securities lending business and, in the event we fail to comply, result in significant penalties. Effective October 17, 2008, the SEC adopted Rule 204T under the Exchange Act, which requires clearing broker-dealers to make delivery on short sales effected in the U.S. no later than T+3. Under Rule 204T, clearing broker-dealers that do not purchase or borrow securities to cover any fail position as of the opening of trading on T+4 are subject to a borrowing penalty for each security that the clearing-broker fails to deliver (subject to the allocation provision noted below). The borrowing penalty will apply until the clearing broker purchases a sufficient amount of the security to make full delivery on the fail position and that purchase clears and settles. If a clearing broker becomes subject to the borrowing penalty, the penalty will prohibit the clearing broker from effecting short sales in that security for its own account or for that of any introducing broker or customer unless the clearing broker has borrowed the securities in question or has entered into a bona fide arrangement to borrow the securities. Clearing broker-dealers are permitted to reasonably allocate the close-out requirement to an introducing broker that is responsible for the fail position. As the clearing broker-dealer, if we are unable to timely cover a fail position and cannot allocate the close-out responsibility to the broker-dealer that is responsible for the fail position, we would be subject to the borrowing penalty until such time as we have purchased a sufficient amount of the security to make full delivery on the fail position and that purchase has cleared and settled, which generally is three business days after the purchase. Rule 204T is currently scheduled to expire on July 31, 2009, unless extended. Foreign jurisdictions in which we operate also have restrictions on short selling. Because of the requirements of Rule 204T and foreign restrictions on short selling, our costs associated with securities borrowings to facilitate customer short selling may significantly increase and the scope of our securities lending business may significantly decrease, which will adversely affect our operations and financial conditions. These changes and potential future regulatory changes related to short-selling of securities may have a negative impact on our ability to earn the spreads we have historically collected. 30 Table of Contents General economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that are beyond our control may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets, which could result in lower revenues from our business operations. Trading volume, market prices and liquidity are affected by general national and international economic and political conditions and broad trends in business and finance that result in changes in volume and price levels of securities transactions. These factors include: • the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital; • the level and volatility of interest rates; • legislative and regulatory changes; • currency values and inflation; and • national, state and local taxation levels affecting securities transactions. These factors are beyond our control and may contribute to reduced levels of activity in the securities markets. Our largest source of revenues has historically been our revenues from clearing operations, which are largely driven by the volume of trading activities of the customers of our correspondents and proprietary trading by our correspondents. Our margin lending revenues and our technology revenues are also impacted by changes in the trading activities of our correspondents and clients. Accordingly, any significant reduction in activity in the securities markets would likely result in lower revenues from our business operations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results are subject to significant fluctuations. Our quarterly revenue and operating results may fluctuate significantly in the future due to a number of factors, including: • changes in the proportion of clearing operations revenues and interest income; • our lengthy sales and integration cycle with new correspondents; • the gain or loss of business from a correspondent; • reductions in per-transaction clearing fees; • changes in bad debt expense from margin lending as compared to historical levels; • changes in the rates we charge for margin loans, changes in the rates we pay for cash deposits we hold on behalf of our correspondents and their customers and changes in the rates at which we can invest such cash deposits; • changes in the market price of securities and our ability to manage related risks; • fluctuations in overall market trading volume; • the relative success and/or failure of third party clearing competitors, many of which have increasingly larger resources than we have as a result of recent consolidation in our industry; • the relative success and/or failure of third party technology competitors including, without limitation, competitors to our Nexa business; • our ability to manage personnel, overhead and other expenses; and • the amount and timing of capital expenditures. Our expense structure is based on historical expense levels and the expected levels of demand for our clearing, margin lending and other services. If demand for our services declines, we may be unable to adjust our cost structure on a timely basis in order to sustain our profitability. Due to the foregoing factors, period-to-period comparisons of our historical revenues and operating results are not necessarily meaningful, and you should not rely upon such comparisons as indicators of future performance. We 31 Table of Contents also cannot assure you that we will be able to sustain the rates of revenue growth we have experienced in the past, improve our operating results or sustain our profitability on a quarterly basis. Our involvement in futures and options markets subjects us to risks inherent in conducting business in those markets. We principally clear futures and options contracts on behalf of our correspondents and their respective customers. Trading in futures and options contracts is generally more highly leveraged than trading in other types of securities. This additional leverage increases the risk associated with trading in futures and options contracts, which in turn raises the risk that a correspondent, introducing broker, or customer may not be able to fully repay its creditors, including us, if it experiences losses in its futures and options contract trading business. We have recently acquired the partnership interests of GHCO, and the limited liability company interests of FCG, which will substantially increase our operations in the futures markets. Because of this increased activity, we will face more exposure to the risks associated with the clearing of futures contracts. We may not be able to or determine not to hedge our foreign exchange risk. As a dealer for foreign exchange trades, we enter into currency transactions with certain of our institutional clients or other institutions using modeled prices that we determine and may seek to hedge our risk by making similar transactions on the various exchanges or electronic communication networks of which we are a participant. While we expect to be able to limit our risk in our transactions with our clients through hedging transactions on exchanges or ECNs or through other counterparty relationships, there is no guarantee that we will be able to enter into these transactions at prices similar to those which we entered into with our clients. In addition, while we may intend to enter into the hedging transactions after we enter into a transaction with our client or the relevant institution, it is possible that currency prices could fluctuate before we are able to enter into such hedging transactions or, for other reasons, we may determine not to hedge such risk. The securities and futures businesses are highly dependent on certain market centers that may be targets of terrorism. Our business is dependent on exchanges and market centers being able to process trades. Terrorist activities in September 2001 caused the U.S. securities markets to close for four days. This impacted our revenue and profitability for that period of time. If future terrorist incidents cause interruption of market activity, our revenues and profits may be impacted negatively again. Risks related to government regulation All aspects of our business are subject to extensive government regulation. If we fail to comply with these regulations, we may be subject to disciplinary or other action by regulatory organizations, and our business may be harmed. The securities industry in the U.S. is subject to extensive regulation under both federal and state laws. In addition to these laws, we must comply with rules and regulations of the SEC, FINRA, the CFTC, the NFA, various stock and futures exchanges, state securities commissions and other regulatory bodies charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities markets and other financial markets and protecting the interests of investors participating in these markets. On December 1, 2008, PFSI became a member of the New York Stock Exchange, which subjects us to additional rules and regulations. Broker-dealers and FCMs are subject to regulations covering all aspects of the securities and futures businesses, including: • sales methods; • trade practices among broker-dealers and FCMs; • use and safekeeping of investors’ funds and securities; • capital structure; • margin lending; 32 Table of Contents • record keeping; • conduct of directors, officers and employees; and • supervision of investor accounts. Our ability to comply with these regulations depends largely on the establishment and maintenance of an effective compliance system as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance personnel. We could be subject to disciplinary or other actions due to claimed non-compliance with these regulations in the future and even for the claimed non-compliance of our correspondents with such regulations. If a claim of non-compliance is made by a regulatory authority, the efforts of our management could be diverted to responding to such a claim and we could be subject to a range of possible consequences, including the payment of fines and the suspension of one or more portions of our business. Additionally, our clearing contracts generally include automatic termination provisions which are triggered in the event we are suspended from any of the national exchanges of which we are a member for failure to comply with the rules or regulations thereof. We and certain of our officers and employees have been subject to claims of non-compliance in the past, and may be subject to claims and legal proceedings in the future. We also operate clearing and related businesses in the U.K. and Canada and execute transactions in global markets. These non-U.S. businesses are also heavily regulated. To the extent that different regulatory regimes impose inconsistent or iterative requirements on the conduct of our business, we will face complexity and additional costs in our compliance efforts. In addition, as we expand into new non-U.S. markets with which we may have relatively less experience, there is a risk that our lack of familiarity with the regulations impacting such markets may affect our performance and results. The regulatory environment in which we operate has experienced increasing scrutiny by regulatory authorities in recent years and further changes in legislation or regulations may affect our ability to conduct our business or reduce our profitability. The legislative and regulatory environment in which we operate has undergone significant change in the past and may undergo further change in the future. The CFTC, the SEC, FINRA, NFA, various securities or futures exchanges and other U.S. and foreign governmental or regulatory authorities continuously review legislative and regulatory initiatives and may adopt new or revised laws and regulations. These legislative and regulatory initiatives may affect the way in which we conduct our business and may make our business less profitable. Changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and regulations by those entities may also adversely affect our business. Certain regulatory authorities have been more likely in recent years to commence enforcement actions against companies in our industry and penalties and fines sought by certain regulatory authorities have increased substantially in recent years. In addition, because our industry is heavily regulated, regulatory approval may be required prior to expansion of our business activities. We may not be able to obtain the necessary regulatory approvals for any desired expansion. Even if approvals are obtained, they may impose restrictions on our business and could require us to incur significant compliance costs or adversely affect the development of business activities in affected markets. If we do not maintain the capital levels required by regulations, we may be subject to fines, suspension, revocation of registration or expulsion by regulatory authorities. We are subject to stringent rules imposed by the SEC, FINRA, and various other regulatory agencies which require broker-dealers to maintain specific levels of net capital. Net capital is the net worth of a broker-dealer, less deductions, for other types of assets including assets not readily convertible into cash and specified percentages of a broker-dealer’s proprietary securities positions. If we fail to maintain the required net capital, we may be subject to suspension or revocation of registration by the SEC and suspension or expulsion by FINRA, which, if not cured, could ultimately lead to our liquidation. If the net capital rules are changed or expanded, or if there is an unusually large charge against our net capital, we might be required to limit or discontinue our clearing and margin lending operations that require the intensive use of capital. In addition, our ability to withdraw capital from our subsidiaries could be restricted, which in turn could limit our ability to pay dividends, repay or repurchase debt, including the 33 Table of Contents notes, at the parent company level and redeem or purchase shares of our outstanding stock, if necessary. A large operating loss or charge against net capital could impede our ability to expand or even maintain our present volume of business. Our futures clearing business is subject to the capital and segregation rules of the NFA and CFTC. Our recent acquisitions of GHCO and FCG substantially increased our exposure to these rules. If we fail to maintain the required capital, or if we violate the customer segregation rules, we may be subject to monetary fines, and the suspension or revocation of our license to clear futures contracts. Any interruption in our ability to continue this business would impact our revenues and profitability. Outside of the U.S., we are subject to other regulatory capital requirements. Our U.K. subsidiary is subject to capital adequacy rules that require our subsidiary to maintain stockholders’ equity and qualifying subordinated loans at specified minimum levels. If we fail to maintain the required regulatory capital, we may be subject to fine, suspension or revocation of our license with the FSA. If our license is suspended or revoked or if the capital adequacy requirements are changed or expanded, we may be required to discontinue our U.K. operations, which could result in diminished revenues. As a member of the IIROC, an approved participant with the Montreal Exchange, a participating organization with the Toronto Stock Exchange and a member of the TSX Venture Exchange and various Canadian alternative trading systems, PFSC is subject to the rules and policies of the IIROC and other rules relating to the maintenance of regulatory capital. Specifically, to ensure that the IIROC members will be able to meet liabilities as they become due, the IIROC requires its member broker-dealers to periodically calculate their risk adjusted capital in accordance with a prescribed formula. If PFSC fails to maintain the required risk adjusted capital, it may be subject to monetary sanctions, suspensions or other sanctions, including expulsion as a member. If PFSC is sanctioned or expelled or if the risk adjusted capital requirements are changed or expanded, PFSC may be required to discontinue operations in Canada, which could result in diminished revenues. In addition, some of the investments we make in our business may impact our regulatory capital. We have made large investments into Nexa and expect to continue to do so in the future. Investments in non-regulated subsidiaries and increases in illiquid assets, including unsecured customer accounts decrease the capital available for our regulated subsidiaries. If we experience increased levels of unsecured and partially secured accounts in the future, our financial results may be harmed. Procedures and requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act may expose us to significant costs or penalties. As participants in the financial services industry, our subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001, which require that they know certain information about their customers and monitor transactions for suspicious financial activities. The cost of complying with the PATRIOT Act and related laws and regulations is significant. We may face particular difficulties in identifying our international customers, gathering the required information about them and monitoring their activities. We face risks that our policies, procedures, technology and personnel directed toward complying with the PATRIOT Act are insufficient and that we could be subject to significant criminal and civil penalties due to noncompliance. Such penalties could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and cash flows. Risks related to our corporate structure Our discontinued operations expose us to legal and other risks. Although the split off transaction described in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Discontinued Operations,” occurred over two years ago, we may incur future liabilities related to the operations of the SAMCO entities. Due to the Company’s indirect ownership of the SAMCO entities prior to our initial public offering we may be exposed to additional liabilities beyond what we may ordinarily encounter in our typical customer relationships. 34 Table of Contents Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws and under Delaware law may prevent or frustrate a change in control or a change in management that stockholders believe is desirable. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which our stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. These provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our management. These provisions include: • a classified board of directors; • limitations on the removal of directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations of directors at meetings of our stockholders; and • the inability of stockholders to act by written consent or to call special meetings. In addition, our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval, which could be used to institute a rights plan, or a poison pill, that would work to dilute the stock ownership of a potential hostile acquirer, effectively preventing acquisitions that have not been approved by our board of directors. The affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote is necessary to amend or repeal the above provisions of our certificate of incorporation. In addition, absent approval of our board of directors, our bylaws may only be amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 75% of our shares of capital stock entitled to vote. In addition, Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Accordingly, Section 203 may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control of our Company. Risks related to our requirements as a public company Our stockholders could be harmed if our management and larger stockholders use their influence in a manner adverse to other stockholders’ interests. At the date of this report, our executive officers, directors and 5% stockholders will beneficially own, in the aggregate, approximately 36.9% of our outstanding common stock. As a result, these stockholders may have the ability to control all fundamental matters affecting us, including the election of the majority of the board of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. This concentration of ownership may also delay or prevent a change in our control even if beneficial to stockholders. The interests of these stockholders with respect to such matters could conflict with the interests of public stockholders. The price of our common stock may be volatile. Since the completion of our initial public offering in May 2006, the price at which our common stock has traded has been subject to significant fluctuation. The price of our common stock may continue to be volatile in the future and could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to: • reductions in market prices or volume; • changes in securities or other government regulations; • quarterly variations in operating results; • our technological capabilities to accommodate any future growth in our operations or clients; 35 Table of Contents • announcements of technological innovations, new products, services, significant contracts, acquisitions or joint ventures by us or our competitors; • issuance and sales of our securities in financing transactions; and • changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts or our failure to meet or exceed analyst estimates. As a result, shareholders may be unable to sell their stock at or above the price they paid for it. Our internal control over financial reporting may not be effective and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to provide an attestation report as to their effectiveness, which could have a significant and adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are continuously evaluating our internal controls over financial reporting in order to allow management to report on, and our independent registered public accounting firm to attest to, our internal controls over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Sarbanes-Oxley Act”) and rules and regulations of the SEC there under, which we refer to as Section 404. While we have not identified material weaknesses to date, we may from time to time identify conditions that may result in material weaknesses. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None 