Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Business If physicians and hospitals do not accept our products and services, or delay in deciding whether to purchase our products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Acceptance of our products and services requires physicians and hospitals to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. We cannot assure you that physicians and hospitals will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. Achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. 9 Table of Contents If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We may not see the benefits of government programs initiated to counter the effects of the current economic situation. While government programs initiated to counter the effects of the current economic situation include expenditures to stimulate business and improve efficiency within the health care sector, we cannot assure you that we will receive any of those funds. For example, the recent passage of the ARRA of 2009 and Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act, or HITECH Act, authorizes approximately $19 billion in expenditures, including discretionary funding, to further adoption of electronic health records. Although we believe that our service offerings will meet the requirements of the HITECH Act in order for our clients to qualify for reimbursement for implementing and using our services, there can be no certainty that any of the planned reimbursements, if made, will be made in regard to our services. We also cannot predict the speed at which physicians will adopt electronic health record systems in response to such government incentives, whether physicians will select our products and services or whether physicians will implement an electronic health record system at all. Any delay in the purchase and implementation of electronic health records systems by physicians in response to government programs, or the failure of physicians to purchase an electronic record system, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. The market for our products and services is intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving technology and product standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We compete on the basis of several factors, including: • breadth and depth of services; • reputation; • reliability, accuracy and security; • client service; • price; and • industry expertise and experience. Our clinical solutions business unit’s principal competitors include Athenahealth Inc., Cerner Corporation, eClinicalWorks Inc., Eclipsys Corp. Epic Systems Corporation, Emdeon Business Services LLC, GE, Aprima Medical Software (formerly iMedica Corporation), McKesson Corporation, Quality Systems, Inc., Sage Software, Inc., The Trizetto Group, Inc., and Wellsoft Corporation. Our key competitors in the EDIS market include MedHost, Meditech, Picis and WellSoft. In the care management market, primary competitors include eDischarge, Maxsys Ltd., Meditech, Midas+ and ProviderLink. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents If we are unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, our ability to expand our product and service offerings and our customer base may be limited. The successful integration of acquired businesses, including Misys Healthcare, is critical to our success. Such acquisitions, including the Misys Healthcare acquisitions, involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired company, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience, the potential loss of the acquired company’s key employees and our inability to maintain the goodwill of the acquired businesses. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. Given that as a result of the Misys Healthcare transaction we have significantly more sales, assets and employees than prior to completion thereof, the Misys Healthcare integration process is significantly larger in scope and, as a result, presents greater risks. Our management will be required to devote a significant amount of time and attention to the process of integrating the operations of Allscripts and Misys Healthcare. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management involvement inherent in that process. In addition to the difficulties noted above, these include: • integrating the operations of Misys Healthcare while carrying on the ongoing operations of each business; • managing a significantly larger company; • the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying our expectations regarding the integration process; • coordinating businesses located in different geographic regions; • integrating two unique business cultures, which may prove to be incompatible; • creating uniform standards, controls, procedures, policies and information systems and minimizing the costs associated with such matters; • integrating information, purchasing, accounting, finance, sales, billing, payroll and regulatory compliance systems; • changing our fiscal year to end May 31, in coordination with the current Misys Healthcare fiscal year, as well as changes in our auditors; • preserving customer, supplier, research and development, distribution, marketing, promotion and other important relationships; and • commercializing products under development and increasing revenues from existing marketed products. The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire companies on acceptable terms, integrate their operations and technology successfully with our own and maintain the goodwill of the acquired business. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Moreover, in pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete for acquisition targets with other companies with similar growth strategies. Some of these competitors may be larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets. The anticipated benefits from the Misys Healthcare transaction may not be realized. The Misys Healthcare transaction was completed with the expectation that it would result in various benefits, including, among other things, revenue synergies, cost savings and operating efficiencies. Although we expect to achieve these anticipated benefits, no assurance can be given that they will actually be achieved and achieving such benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties. Additionally, the elimination of duplicative costs 11 Table of Contents may not be possible or may take longer than anticipated and the benefits from the transaction may be offset by costs incurred or delays in integrating Misys Healthcare. If we fail to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition, our results of operations may be adversely affected. It is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions. The duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our software solutions depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer, which is difficult to predict. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large healthcare organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare, and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If customers take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. We will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, administrative, financial control and reporting systems. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. Difficulties in managing any future growth could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations because we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Our ability to provide high-quality services to our clients depends in large part upon our employees’ experience and expertise. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with a deep understanding of the healthcare and healthcare information technology industries. We compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including clients and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to clients and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. If we fail to retain our employees, the quality of our services could diminish and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we lose the services of our key personnel, we may be unable to replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on the continued skills, experience, efforts and policies of our management and other key personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. In particular, the services of Glen E. Tullman, our Chief Executive Officer, are integral to the execution of our business strategy. If one or more of our key employees leaves our employment, we will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our strategy. Because competition 12 Table of Contents for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. We do not maintain keyman insurance for any of our key employees. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Because the Internet and healthcare information markets are characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business could suffer. Our business depends in part on and will continue to depend in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. To be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of healthcare and healthcare information technology industry segments. This is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute towards our ability to: • extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry; • develop and deploy new products and services; • further enhance the Allscripts brand; and • generate additional revenue and cash flows. Entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of our markets. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. We depend, in part, on our strategic partners’ ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. If we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, we may not be able to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of indebtedness and increased amortization expense. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. In addition, future acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the write off 13 Table of Contents of software development costs and the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have taken, and, if an impairment occurs, could take, charges against earnings in connection with acquisitions. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer. Complex software such as ours often contains undetected defects or errors. It is possible that such errors may be found after introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors might occur in our software. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our software could result in: • harm to our reputation; • lost sales; • delays in commercial release; • product liability claims; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions; • license terminations or renegotiations; and • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our competitive position may suffer. Our business plan is predicated on our proprietary systems and technology products. Accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a combination of trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures. We generally do not have any patents on our technology. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position. In addition, we may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of invalidity, and we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management’s time and attention as a result. If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. We are and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality overlaps with competitive products. We do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties. However, claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the 14 Table of Contents future. Also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Factors beyond our control could cause interruptions in our operations, which would adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations. To succeed, we must be able to operate our systems without interruption. Certain of our communications and information services are provided through our third-party service providers. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, including without limitation: (1) power loss and telecommunications failures; (2) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; (3) computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and (4) fire, flood and other natural disasters. Any significant interruptions in our services would damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable for use of data we provide. We provide data for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Third-party contractors provide us with most of this data. If this data is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot assure you that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. If our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and customers could be deterred from using our services. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information over the Internet has been a significant barrier to engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter people from using the Internet for these purposes and from using our system to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential healthcare information. It is also possible that third parties could penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate patient information and other data. If this happens, our operations could be interrupted, and we could be subject to possible liability and regulatory action. We may need to devote significant financial and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We could face financial loss, litigation and other liabilities to the extent that our activities or the activities of third-party contractors involve the storage and transmission of confidential information like patient records or credit information. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to obtain additional financing for our future needs, our ability to respond to competitive pressures may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If our content and service providers fail to perform adequately, our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on independent content and service providers for many of the benefits we provide through our software applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews and the routing of transaction data to third-party payers. If our services are interrupted as a result of any problems with our providers, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. We also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. In addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. If these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impaired. If we are forced to reduce our prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, and government action affecting reimbursement under Medicare, Medicaid and other government health programs. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in statutes, regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare, Medicaid and other programs. Recent government actions and future legislative and administrative changes could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers, increase emphasis on competition, impose price controls and create other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, because cash from sales funds some of our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need. If we incur costs exceeding our insurance coverage in lawsuits pending against us or that are brought against us in the future, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. In the event we are found liable in any lawsuits filed against us, and if our insurance coverage were not available or inadequate to satisfy these liabilities, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors, including Microsoft and Aprima Medical Software, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 16 Table of Contents Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. If we do not maintain and expand our business with our existing customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business model depends on the success of our efforts to sell additional products and services to our existing customers, including the sale of our EHR products to legacy MHS’ practice management customer base. Additionally, certain of our clinical solutions business unit customers initially purchase one or a limited number of our modules. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or purchase additional modules. Also, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. Restrictions on our ability to issue equity awards to employees may make it more difficult for us to retain or attract key employees. Pursuant to the relationship agreement between us and Misys (the “Relationship Agreement”), we are subject to restrictions and conditions on the issuance of equity awards to our employees. As a result, it may be more difficult for us to retain key employees or attract new employees. Our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result thereof. Potential subsidy of services similar to ours may reduce client demand. Recently, entities such as the Massachusetts Healthcare Consortium have offered to subsidize adoption by physicians of electronic health record technology. In addition, federal regulations have been changed to permit such subsidy from additional sources subject to certain limitations, and the current administration has passed legislation, called the HITECH Act, that will provide federal support for EMR initiatives. To the extent that we do not qualify or participate in such subsidy programs, demand for our services may be reduced, which may decrease our revenues. We rely on Misys for the provision of certain corporate services. Pursuant to our Shared Services Agreement with Misys, Misys provides us with services including: (1) human resource functions such as administration, selection of benefit plans and designing employee survey and training programs, (2) management services, (3) procurement services such as travel arrangements, disaster recovery and vendor management, (4) research and development services such as software development, (5) access to information technology, telephony, facilities and other related services at Misys’ customer support center located in Manila, The Philippines; and (6) information system services such as planning, support and database administration. Prior to the closing of the Transaction, we did not rely on a third party for such services. If Misys fails to provide these services as required under the Shared Services Agreement or if the Shared Services Agreement were terminated for any reason, we might incur significant costs to obtain replacement 17 Table of Contents services and the provision of products and services to our clients may be interrupted. As a result, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected as a result thereof. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could shut down our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our customers, are regulated by a number of federal, state and local governmental entities. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect in that, in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. Inability of our customers to do so could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our customer contracts, or even expose us to direct liability on a theory that we had assisted our customers in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. Because our business relationships with physicians are unique, and the healthcare technology industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our customers is uncertain. Indeed, there are federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and limitations on physician referrals, and laws related to distribution and marketing, including off-label promotion of prescription drugs that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. It is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our customers by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. In addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. The healthcare industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to: • Patient Information. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide to us patient-identifiable medical information related to the prescription drugs that they prescribe and other aspects of patient treatment. Government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), the HITECH Act and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. National standards and procedures under HIPAA include the “Standards for Electronic Transactions and Code Sets” (the Transaction Standards); the “Security Standards” (the Security Standards); and the “Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information” (the Privacy Standards). The Transaction Standards require the use of specified data coding, formatting and content in all specified “Health Care Transactions” conducted electronically. The Security Standards require the adoption of specified types of security for electronic healthcare information. The Privacy Standards grant a number of rights to individuals as to their identifiable confidential medical information (called Protected Health Information) and restrict the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information by Covered Entities, defined as “health care providers, health care payers, and health care clearinghouses.” We have reviewed our activities and believe that we are a Covered Entity to the extent that we maintain a “group health plan” for the benefit of our employees. Such a plan, even if not a separate legal entity from us as its sponsor, is included in the HIPAA definition of Covered Entities. We have taken steps we believe to be appropriate and required to bring our group health plan into compliance with HIPAA. For our operating functions, we believe that we are a hybrid entity, with both covered and non-covered functions under HIPAA. The Payerpath portion of our business qualifies as a health care clearinghouse when it files electronic health care claims on behalf of covered providers and we have instituted policies and procedures to comply with HIPAA in that role. With respect 18 Table of Contents to our other business functions, we do not believe we are a Covered Entity as a health care provider or as a health care clearinghouse; however, the definition of a health care clearinghouse is broad and we cannot offer any assurance that we could not be considered a health care clearinghouse under HIPAA or that, if we are determined to be a healthcare clearinghouse, the consequences would not be adverse to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, certain provisions of the Privacy and Security Standards apply to third parties that create, access, or receive Protected Health Information in order to perform a function or activity on behalf of a Covered Entity. Such third parties are called “Business Associates.” In addition, Covered Entities must have a written “Business Associate Agreement” with such third parties, containing specified written satisfactory assurances, consistent with the Privacy and Security Standards, that the third party will safeguard Protected Health Information that it creates or accesses and will fulfill other material obligations. Most of our customers are Covered Entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a Business Associate of those customers. We would face liability under our Business Associate Agreements and HIPAA if we do not comply with our Business Associate obligations and applicable provisions of the Privacy Standards, the Security Standards and HITECH Act. The penalties for a violation of HIPAA are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations, if such penalties ever were imposed. Additionally, Covered Entities that are providers are required to adopt a unique standard National Provider Identifier (NPI) for use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions. Subject to the discussion set forth above, we believe that the principal effects of HIPAA are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by us and our customers in a manner that is compliant with the various HIPAA standards and, second, to require us to enter into and comply with Business Associate Agreements with our Covered Entity customers. For most Covered Entities, the deadlines for compliance with the Privacy Standards and the Transaction Standards occurred in 2003. Covered Entities, with the exception of small health plans (as that term is defined by the Privacy Standards), were required to be in compliance with the Security Standards by April 20, 2005 and to use NPIs in standard transactions no later than the compliance dates, which was May 23, 2007, for all but small health plans, and May 23, 2008 for small health plans. We have policies and procedures that we believe comply with all federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of Protected Health Information that we receive and with our obligations under Business Associate Agreements. In particular, we believe that our systems and products are capable of being used by or for our customers in compliance with the Transaction Standards and Security Standards and are capable of being used by or for our customers in compliance with the NPI requirements. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of Protected Health Information, we could be subject to liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our customer contracts or our operations could be shut down. Moreover, because all HIPAA Standards are subject to change or interpretation and because certain other HIPAA Standards, not discussed above, are not yet published, we cannot predict the full future impact of HIPAA on our business and operations. In the event that the HIPAA standards and compliance requirements change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain state laws are not preempted by HIPAA and may impose independent obligations upon our customers or us. Additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers, has been proposed at the state level. There can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. • Electronic Prescribing. The use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. Many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. While federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of certain prescription orders, the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. Restrictions exist, however, on the use of 19 Table of Contents e-prescribing for controlled substances and certain other drugs. Given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the Internet, we expect the remaining states to directly address these areas with regulation in the near future. In addition, on November 7, 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services published its final “E-Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program” regulations (E-Prescribing Regulations). These regulations are required by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) and became effective beginning on January 1, 2006. The E-Prescribing Regulations consist of detailed standards and requirements, in addition to the HIPAA standards discussed above, for prescription and other information transmitted electronically in connection with a drug benefit covered by the MMA’s Prescription Drug Benefit. These standards cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. The standards apply to prescription drug plans participating in the MMA’s Prescription Drug Benefit. Other rules governing e-prescribing apply to other areas of Medicare and to Medicaid. The Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (MIPPA) authorized a new and separate incentive program for individual eligible professionals who are successful electronic prescribers as defined by MIPPA. This new incentive is separate from and is in addition to the quality reporting incentive program authorized by Division B of the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006—Medicare Improvements and Extension Act of 2006 and known as the Physician Quality Reporting Initiative (PQRI). Eligible professionals do not need to participate in PQRI to participate in the E-Prescribing Incentive Program. For the 2009 e-prescribing reporting year, to be a successful e-prescriber and to receive an incentive payment, an individual eligible professional must report one e- prescribing measure in at least 50% of the cases in which the measure is reportable by the eligible professional during 2009. There is no sign-up or pre- registration to participate in the E-Prescribing Incentive Program. However, there are certain limitations for participation. First, eligible professionals must have and use a qualified e-prescribing system. Second, at least 10% of eligible professionals’ Medicare Part B covered services must be made up of codes that appear in the denominator of the e-prescribing measure. Furthermore, beginning January 1, 2009, eligible professionals can participate by reporting on their adoption and use of an e-prescribing system by submitting claims information on one e-prescribing measure on their Medicare Part B claims. To the extent that these new initiatives and regulations foster the accelerated adoption of e-prescribing, our business could benefit. But, as we note below, there is no assurance that these government-sponsored efforts will succeed in spurring greater adoption of e-prescribing. Moreover, regulations in this area impose certain requirements which can be burdensome and they are evolving and subject to change at any moment, meaning that any potential benefits may be reversed by a newly-promulgated regulation that adversely affects our business model. Aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of the need of our customers to comply, as discussed above. Compliance with these regulations could be burdensome, time-consuming and expensive. We also could become subject to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems. For example, regulatory authorities such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services may impose functionality standards with regard to electronic prescribing and EHR technologies. These could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. • Electronic Health Records. A number of important federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. As a company that provides EHR systems to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our customers’ compliance with these laws. Because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we must continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments that might affect our business practices as they relate to EHR systems. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business practices. Also, as described above, our TouchWorks EHR and HealthMatics EHR are certified by CCHIT as meeting CCHIT’s certification standards for functionality, interoperability and security. Our failure to maintain CCHIT certification or otherwise meet industry standards would adversely impact our business. 20 Table of Contents • Claims Transmission. Our system electronically transmits claims for prescription medications dispensed by physicians to patients’ payers for immediate approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our customers is also accurate and complete. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. As discussed above, the HIPAA Transaction Standards and the HIPAA Security Standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our customers’ HIPAA compliance obligations. Furthermore, to the extent that there is some type of security breach it could have a material adverse effect. • Medical Devices. Certain computer software products are regulated as medical devices under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has issued a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices. The draft policy is not binding on the industry or the FDA. To the extent that computer software is a medical device under the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, we, as a manufacturer of such products, could be required, depending on the product, to register and list our products with the FDA; notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products; or obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. Depending on the intended use of a device, the FDA could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. If the FDA requires this data, we could be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. We cannot provide assurances that the FDA will approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. In addition, these products would be subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act’s general controls, including those relating to good manufacturing practices and adverse experience reporting. We expect that the FDA is likely to become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings regardless of whether the draft policy is ever revised or finalized. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like approval, labeling and manufacturing. In addition, the FDA can impose extensive requirements governing product design controls and quality assurance processes. Failure to comply with FDA requirements can result in criminal and civil fines and penalties, product seizure, injunction, and civil monetary policies—each of which could have an adverse affect on our business. • Red Flag Rules. Starting November 1, 2009, medical practices that act as “creditors” to their patients need to comply with new Federal Trade Commission rules promulgated under the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 that are aimed at reducing the risk of identity theft. These rules require creditors to adopt policies and procedures that identify patterns, practices, or activities that indicate possible identity theft (called “red flags”); detect those red flags; and respond appropriately to those red flags to prevent or mitigate any theft. The rules also require creditors to update their policies and procedures on a regular basis. Because most practices treat their patients without receiving full payment at the time of service, our clients are generally considered “creditors” for purposes of these rules and are required to comply with them. Although we are not directly subject to these rules—since we do not extend credit to customers—we do handle patient data that, if improperly disclosed, could be used in identity theft. Increased government involvement in healthcare could adversely affect our business. U.S. healthcare system reform at both the federal and state level, could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our customers and the 21 Table of Contents other entities with which we have a business relationship. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. Additionally, the government has signaled increased enforcement activity targeting healthcare fraud and abuse, which could adversely impact our business, either directly or directly. To the extent that our customers, most of whom are providers, may be affected by this increased enforcement environment, our business could correspondingly be affected. Additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential customers and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. Further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to EHR’s, providing customers with incentives to adopt EHR solutions or developing a low-cost government sponsored EHR solution, such as VistA-Office EHR. Additionally, new safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and corresponding exceptions to the federal Stark law may alter the competitive landscape, as such new safe harbors and exceptions allow hospitals and certain other donors to donate certain items and services used in electronic prescription systems and electronic health records systems. These new safe harbors and exceptions are intended to accelerate the adoption of electronic prescription systems and electronic health records systems, and therefore provide new and attractive opportunities for us to work with hospitals and other donors who wish to provide our solutions to physicians. At the same time, such safe harbors and exceptions may result in increased competition from providers of acute EHR solutions, whose hospital customers may seek to donate their existing acute EHR solutions to physicians for use in ambulatory settings. If the electronic healthcare information market fails to develop as quickly as expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The electronic healthcare information market is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving. A number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market, especially in response to recent government subsidies. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced products and services. Because the markets for our products and services are new and evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. We cannot assure you that markets for our products and services will develop or that, if they do, they will be strong and continue to grow at a sufficient pace. If markets fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. 22 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Common Stock Misys has the voting power to block our future business combinations. Under our amended and restated charter and by-laws, approval of actions by stockholders requires a majority of the shares of common stock present in person and entitled to vote on the matter except as otherwise required by Delaware law. Because of the size of Misys’ interest in us, Misys has the ability to control or significantly influence the outcome of all matters submitted to a stockholder vote, subject to the voting agreements contained in the Relationship Agreement. The interests of Misys may differ from those of other holders of our common stock in material respects. For example, Misys may have an interest in pursuing acquisitions, divestitures, financings or other transactions that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment, even though such transactions might involve risks to other holders of our common stock, or vice versa. Additionally, Misys may determine that the disposition of some or all of its interests in us would be beneficial to Misys at a time when such disposition could be detrimental to the other holders of our common stock. In addition, it will likely be impracticable (as long as Misys retains a majority ownership stake) for a third party to acquire us through a merger or similar business combination without Misys’ approval. Misys has the right to appoint a majority of our directors. Pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, Misys has the right to nominate six of our ten directors, as well as the Chairman of the Board. Misys’ rights to nominate a specific number of directors set forth in the Relationship Agreement will continue so long as it owns specified percentages of our common stock. As a result, Misys nominated directors will control or significantly influence matters submitted to a vote of our directors and have the ability to remove and replace our executive officers. Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock that we may issue and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of July 17, 2009, we had approximately: • 142,344,140 shares of common stock outstanding; • 4,238,013 shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance pursuant to outstanding stock options (at a weighted average exercise price of $5.20 per share); • 3,136,446 shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance to settle outstanding restricted stock units; and • 2,450,746 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration in other acquisition transactions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. We have called for redemption as of August 5, 2009 our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures. It is anticipated that holders of our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures will exercise their right to convert the debentures into shares of our common stock rather than be redeemed. The conversion of these debentures into common stock would result in the issuance of approximately 2,450,746 shares of our common stock and, thereby dilute our existing stockholders. 23 Table of Contents Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights (except that shares of preferred stock may not have more than one vote per share), dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock that is convertible into our common stock at greater than a one-to-one ratio, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to the holders of our common stock. Our goodwill, which increased as a result of the Misys Healthcare transaction, could become impaired and adversely affect our net worth and the market value of our common stock. Under the purchase method of accounting, our assets and liabilities were recorded, as of completion of the Misys Healthcare transactions, at their respective fair values and added to those of Misys Healthcare, which are carried at their book values. The purchase price for the Misys Healthcare transaction was allocated to legacy Allscripts’ tangible assets and liabilities and identifiable intangible assets, based on their fair values as of the date of completion of the Merger. The excess of $336,025,000 of such price over those fair values has been recorded as goodwill. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. To the extent the value of goodwill or intangibles becomes impaired, we may be required to incur material charges relating to such impairment. Such a potential impairment charge could have a material impact on our operating results. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. Commencing in the fiscal year ending May 31, 2010, Allscripts must include legacy Misys Healthcare in its system and process evaluation and testing of internal control over financial reporting to allow management and our independent registered certified public accounting firm to report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, as required by Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Securities and Exchange Commission granted us relief from including legacy Misys Healthcare in such evaluation and testing for our fiscal year ended May 31, 2009. Prior to the completion of the Transactions, Misys Healthcare had not performed the system and process evaluation and testing of its internal control over financial reporting. This testing, or the subsequent testing by our independent registered certified public accounting firm, may reveal deficiencies in the combined entity’s internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses. Moreover, if the combined entity is not able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 in a timely manner, or if it or its independent registered certified public accounting firm identifies deficiencies in the combined Allscripts-Misys’ internal control over financial reporting that are deemed to be material weaknesses, the market price of our stock could decline and we could be subject to sanctions or investigations by the NASDAQ, the SEC or other regulatory authorities, which would require additional financial and management resources. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock is volatile and could fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by our competitors or us; 24 Table of Contents • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions and trends in the electronic healthcare information, Internet, e-commerce and pharmaceutical markets; and • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock markets, especially the Nasdaq National Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and Internet-related companies in particular. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may materially affect the trading price of our common stock. General economic, political and market conditions such as recessions and interest rate fluctuations may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price for our common stock may result in the filing of securities class action litigation. Our quarterly operating results may vary. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and we expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to vary in future periods depending on a number of factors, some of which we have no control over, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance procedures, seasonal variances in demand for our products and services, the sales, service and implementation cycles for our software products, potential downturns in the healthcare market and in economic conditions generally, and other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. We base our expense levels in part upon our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. Any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. In addition, our product sales cycle for larger sales is lengthy and unpredictable, making it difficult to estimate our future bookings for any given period. If we do not achieve projected booking targets for a given period, securities analysts may change their recommendations on our common stock. For these and other reasons, we may not meet the earnings estimates of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could suffer. If we fail to comply with financial covenants under the Credit Facility, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Credit Facility, as hereinafter defined, contains certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and total leverage ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants, an event of default may occur, resulting in, among other things, the requirement to immediately repay all outstanding amounts owed thereunder, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition or the price of our common stock. We rely on exceptions from certain corporate governance and other requirements under the rules of Nasdaq. We qualify for exceptions from certain corporate governance and other requirements of the rules of Nasdaq. Pursuant to these exceptions, we have elected not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq, including the requirements (i) that a majority of our board of directors consist of independent directors, (ii) that we have a nominating/corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (iii) that we have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors. Accordingly, our stockholders do not have the same protections afforded to equityholders of entities that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of Nasdaq. 25 Table of Contents Sales of our common stock by Misys may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. While the shares of our common stock owned by Misys are not registered and are subject to transfer restrictions, sales of a large number of such shares, or even the perception that these sales may occur, could cause a decline in the market price of our common stock. Furthermore, pursuant to the Relationship Agreement, we have an obligation to negotiate in good faith to grant Misys customary registration rights, thereby facilitating such sales. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 