Item 1A. Risk Factors. In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered when evaluating our company. Our business, financial condition and financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks and uncertainties. We have a recent history of losses, expect to incur further losses and may not return to or sustain profitability in the future. We reported a net loss of approximately $76.7 million and $100.5 million, for the year ended January 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, we expect to continue to report losses for the next few quarters. Additionally, we may not return to profitability in future periods, our revenues could further decline or grow more slowly than we expect, and we may incur significant losses in the future for a number of reasons, including due to the risks described in this Annual Report. We are currently engaged in a multi-year business transformation initiative that involves risks, has resulted in and could continue to result in higher than expected costs and/or could otherwise adversely impact our operations, profitability and retention rates for clients and employees. We are in the midst of a multi-year business transformation initiative intended to establish a single set of global processes for our freight forwarding business and our global financial management. As part of this initiative, we are developing and implementing our next generation freight forwarding operating system, and rationalizing our business segments to a more common organizational structure on a worldwide basis. Currently, we operate numerous systems with varying degrees of integration, which can lead to inefficiencies, workarounds and rework. We have incurred substantial costs to date related to the transformation initiative. The scale and anticipated future costs associated with our business transformation initiative are significant and we have and could continue to incur costs substantially in excess of what we are anticipating spending. Any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this project may result in delays, which in turn, will increase the costs of the initiative and would also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the initiative. We have experienced some difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes, implementing shared services and implementing a successful change management process and these difficulties may continue. These difficulties have impacted certain of our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. In certain countries, particularly in the United States, we experienced invoicing delays immediately following the system rollout in those countries. This led to delays in our ability to collect our receivables and significantly impacted our liquidity (which led to negative operating cash flows in our fourth fiscal quarter, which is usually a strong working capital quarter). The negative impact on our liquidity was among the factors that caused us to undertake a refinancing in March 2014 which involved issuing $400.0 million principal amount of convertible notes and $175.0 million in Convertible Preference shares as well as entering into a new senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility. We may experience additional invoicing delays as we implement our system in additional countries. In March 2014, we implemented our 1View system in China, South Africa, Peru and Uruguay and the percentage of freight forwarding transactions on the system increased to approximately 72%. This internal initiative may also reduce our external focus on clients and growth, 10 Table of Contents thereby negatively impacting our future potential growth and client relationships. Significant changes associated with our business transformation initiative may also be disruptive to employees and may negatively impact employee morale and retention rates. In addition, as disclosed in Part II, Item 9A of this Annual Report, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the fact that there are currently an insufficient number of shared service center financial accounting and reporting resources to allow for timely analysis and recording of financial statement amounts given the Company’s current migration to its new freight forwarding application. As a result, underlying controls related to account reconciliations and analysis across a number of trade receivable and payable accrual accounts were not operating effectively. As a result of our business transformation initiative, we have incurred, and expect that we will incur in the future, duplicative and implementation costs as well as employee severance and other costs. This is due, in part, to the fact that in order to achieve the full benefits of our 1View system, the system needs to be implemented in both the country of shipment origin and shipment destination and that the costs associated with implementation are duplicative of existing costs until both origin and destination countries utilize the 1View system. Our liquidity has decreased significantly over the last several quarters. While our recent refinancing which we completed in March 2014 provided us with liquidity in the near term, we cannot assure you that we will have sufficient liquidity going forward if our assumptions prove incorrect. Our liquidity and capital resources have decreased significantly over the last several fiscal quarters primarily as a result of (i) the net losses we have incurred, (ii) capital expenditures associated with our business transformation initiatives, (iii) severance expenses and (iv) recent invoicing delays, primarily in the U.S., in connection with implementing our next generation freight forwarding operating system and our global financial system, which led to higher than normal receivables and weaker cash collections. While our fourth fiscal quarter is usually a strong quarter for cash flows, as a result of these and other factors we used net cash in our operating activities for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2014 of $29.2 million, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $98.2 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013. This required us to draw a substantial portion of our availability under our then existing credit facilities and led to a significant reduction of working capital. In addition, a substantial portion of our cash is located outside the Unites States in jurisdictions where local law or the terms of agreements binding on the relevant subsidiary makes repatriation very difficult, including China and South Africa. During March 2014, we undertook several steps to address the decline in liquidity and capital resources, including completing a private placement of convertible senior notes, issuing convertible preference shares, entering into a new credit facility and refinancing a significant amount of our prior indebtedness under our then outstanding credit facilities. These actions provided us with what we believe will be sufficient liquidity in the near term. However, our conclusion that these transactions will provide sufficient liquidity for us assumes that we are able to complete our business transformation and that the economic environment does not change in a material and adverse manner. If our assumptions prove incorrect, we may need additional liquidity. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ from our expectations include: • additional operating losses due to changes in the economic environment or otherwise; • delays in our business transformation, including implementation of our freight forwarding operating system and global financial system (or further invoicing delays as we implement this system in other jurisdictions); • other factors described elsewhere in this Item 1.A “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If our assumptions prove incorrect, we may need to raise additional capital in the form of equity and/or debt financing. If such additional capital is not available on terms acceptable to us or at all then we may need to curtail our operations and/or take additional measures to conserve and manage our liquidity and capital resources, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. If we are not reimbursed for amounts that we advance or disburse for our customers or if our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We rely on cash from operations to fund our business. In order to generate such cash, we need to invoice accurately and collect our receivables. In certain countries, particularly in the United States, we experienced invoicing delays immediately following the implementation of our freight forwarding operating system and global financial system in those countries. As we implement our system in additional countries, we may experience similar disruptions in our invoicing processes. In addition, we assume a certain level of credit risk with our customers in order to do business. Conditions affecting any of our customers could cause them to become unable or unwilling to pay us in a timely 11 Table of Contents manner, or at all, for services we have already provided them. In the past, we have experienced collection delays from certain customers, and we cannot predict whether we will continue to experience similar or more severe delays in the future. We make significant advances and disbursements on behalf of our clients for transportation costs concerning collect freight and customs duties and taxes and in connection with our performance of other contract logistics services. These advances and disbursements temporarily consume cash as they are typically paid to third parties in advance of reimbursement from clients. The billings to our clients for these disbursements may be several times larger than the amount of revenue and fees we derive from these transactions. Although we have established provisions to cover losses due to delays or inability to pay, there can be no assurance that such provisions will be sufficient to cover our losses. If losses due to delays or inability to pay are greater than our provisions, it could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, results of operations, and financial condition. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our outstanding indebtedness could adversely impact our liquidity and flexibility in obtaining additional financing, our ability to fulfil our debt obligations and our financial condition and results of operations. We have substantial debt and, as a result, we have significant debt service obligations. We and a number of our direct and indirect subsidiaries have various credit, letters of credit and guarantee facilities including our $150.0 million asset-based secured revolving credit facility which we entered into in March 2014. In addition, in March 2014 as part of our recent refinancing we issued $400.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2019 (the 2019 Notes). Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us and our shareholders because in certain circumstances we may need to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing such indebtedness and dedicate funds to service our outstanding debt. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, which could in turn result in an event of default on such indebtedness; • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of cash for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; • impair our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other investments or general corporate purposes, which may limit the ability to execute our business strategy; • diminish our ability to withstand a downturn in our business, the industry in which we operate or the economy generally and restrict us from exploiting business opportunities or making acquisitions; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate or the general economy; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including movements in interest rates, which could result in increased borrowing costs; • limit management’s discretion in operating our business; and • place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt as it could limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes. We may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, some or all of which may be secured by a lien on our assets. If new debt or other liabilities or obligations are added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we and our subsidiaries now face could intensify. Servicing our debt requires a significant amount of cash and we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our debt and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our debt, which 12 Table of Contents may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations and to fund planned capital expenditures and expansion efforts and any acquisitions we may make in the future depends on our ability to generate cash in the future and our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain regulatory, competitive, financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our debt. In particular, we would not have been able to repay the principal amount of our debt in April 2014 when the waivers we had obtained under certain of our prior credit facilities and our previously outstanding senior notes would have expired without the external sources of capital which we obtained from the refinancing we completed in March 2014. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness depends on our ability to generate cash in the future. Our cash payments for interest were $32.8 million for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014. We will have to generate significant cash flows from operations to meet our debt service requirement during fiscal 2015 and beyond. In March 2014, we issued $175.0 million in Convertible Preference Shares (the Convertible Preference Shares) which will increase our annual cash obligations if we are required to pay dividends on the Convertible Preference Shares in cash. The cash dividend rate on such Convertible Preference Shares is 8.0%. In March 2014, we also issued the 2019 Notes, which bear interest payable at 4.50%. If we are unable to meet our debt service obligations, including as a result of any failure to successfully complete our business transformation initiative, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments or to sell assets, seek additional capital (which could include obtaining additional equity capital on terms that may be onerous or highly dilutive) or restructure or refinance our debt. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. Our operating results and available cash have been and may in the future be insufficient to meet our debt service obligations. We could again face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we could realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Further, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our debt on or before maturity and our ability to refinance our debt will depend on the capital markets and our financial condition at such time. We cannot assure you that we will be able to refinance any of our debt on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our revolving credit, letters of credit and guarantee facilities contain covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. Such covenants limit our operating and financial flexibility and our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. A number of our revolving credit, letters of credit and guarantee facilities require that we maintain specified financial ratios and tests. Our credit facility for our operations in South Africa (the “South African Facilities Agreement”) contains financial covenants applicable to the borrower group under that credit facility. In addition, the South African Facilities Agreement and our other credit, letter of credit and guarantee facilities including our senior secured asset-based revolving credit facility with Citibank, N.A., Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and Bank of the West (the CitiBank Credit Facility), which we entered into in March 2014, contain various other restrictions and covenants customary for these types of financings. These covenants may restrict or may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or pay dividends or make distributions on our shares; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to assets; 13 Table of Contents • make certain acquisitions, investments, loans or advances or certain expenditures; • enter into agreements to lease real or personal property in excess of certain thresholds or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • change the general nature of our business; or • merge or consolidate with other companies or sell assets beyond specified levels. The covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our debt instruments may adversely impact our operations and our ability to pursue available business opportunities, even if we believe such actions would otherwise be advantageous. Our ability to comply with these covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing trade volumes, adverse economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment. In the past we amended the covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our credit agreements and debt instruments and have obtained waivers regarding certain provisions. If we do not comply with the covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our credit, letter of credit and guarantee facilities and we are then unable to obtain any necessary amendments or waivers, the interest and principal amounts outstanding under such facilities may become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, the indenture for the 2019 Notes, the CitiBank Credit Facility, the South African Facilities Agreement and our other credit, letters of credit and guarantee facilities contain cross-default provisions with respect to other indebtedness, giving the holders of the notes and the lenders under the various credit facilities, as the case may be, the right to declare a default if we default under other indebtedness in some circumstances. Accordingly, defaults under our credit agreements and other debt instruments could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may need additional financing to fund our operations, we may need replacement financing for some of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may not have the ability to repay the principal amount of our indebtedness at maturity or prior thereto if we are required to do so. We may not be able to raise the funds necessary to settle conversions of our convertible notes or to repurchase the convertible notes upon a fundamental change. When our various letters of credit, credit, cash draw and guarantee facilities expire or otherwise become due and payable, we will need to repay such amounts or replace, refinance or extend the maturity dates of such facilities. In this regard, the commitment by lenders to make revolving loans under the CitiBank Credit Facility terminates in March 2019, unless our 2019 Notes have not been redeemed, refinanced or converted prior to September 2018, in which case the CitiBank Credit Facility terminates in September 2018. Our current credit facility with our subsidiary in Japan terminates in October 2014 and the maturity date of our South African Facilities Agreement is July 9, 2016. In addition, we may need additional financing in the future to fund our operations. In certain circumstances, we could be required to repay our outstanding debt prior to the originally scheduled dates of maturity. For example, if a “Change of Control” (as this term or similar terms are defined in the CitiBank Credit Facility, the South African Facilities Agreement and in various other credit, letters of credit and guarantee facilities) occurs or if we do not comply with the covenants or other requirements in the CitiBank Credit Facility, the South African Facilities Agreement and in our various other facilities, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated. In addition, at maturity, the entire outstanding principal amount of our 2019 Notes will become due and payable by us, unless earlier converted redeemed or repurchased in accordance with their terms prior to such date. In addition, if the conditional conversion feature of the 2019 Notes is triggered, the holders of the notes will be entitled to convert their notes at any time during specified periods at their option. We may make cash payments with respect to a conversion of our 2019 Notes (in addition to cash paid in lieu of fractional shares) if we obtain the requisite shareholder approval which we intend to seek at our 2014 meeting of our shareholders (which could adversely affect our liquidity), unless we elect to deliver solely ordinary shares to settle such conversions (other than cash in lieu of any fractional share). In addition, even if holders of the 2019 Notes do not elect to convert their notes, we could be required under applicable accounting rules to reclassify all or a portion of the outstanding principal of the 2019 Notes as a current rather than long-term liability, which may result in a material reduction of our net working capital. Holders of the 2019 Notes also have the right to require us to repurchase their notes upon the occurrence of a fundamental change at a repurchase price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes to be repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. 14 Table of Contents We may not have enough available cash or be able to obtain financing at the time we are required to repay the principal amounts then outstanding under our credit facilities or to repay the principal amount of the 2019 Notes, to make repurchases of the notes surrendered therefor or to pay cash upon conversions of the notes, to the extent we are required to do so. In addition, our ability to repay our indebtedness or to make any required repurchases or to pay cash upon conversions of the 2019 Notes may be limited by law, by regulatory authority or by agreements governing our indebtedness. Our failure to repay the principal amounts of our indebtedness when we are required to do so or to make other required payments under such facilities and debt instruments would constitute a default under the governing instruments for such indebtedness and could also lead to a default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness. If the repayment of our indebtedness were to be accelerated after any applicable notice or grace periods, we may not have sufficient funds to repay the indebtedness, repurchase the 2019 Notes or make cash payments upon conversions thereof. Replacement or additional financing may involve incurring additional debt or selling equity securities and may not be available to us at such time on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. Changes in the credit markets could adversely affect the terms upon which we are able to replace, renew or refinance our letters of credit, guarantee and other credit facilities and debt instruments. If we incur additional debt, our short-term or long-term borrowing costs could increase and the risks associated with our business could increase. If we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders will be diluted. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we are unable to timely secure replacement or additional financing when needed, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. Despite our current debt levels, we may still incur substantially more debt or take other actions which would intensify the risks discussed above. Despite our current consolidated debt levels, we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional debt in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in our debt instruments. The terms of the indenture governing our 2019 Notes do not restrict us from incurring additional debt, securing existing or future debt, recapitalizing our debt or taking a number of other actions that could have the effect of diminishing our ability to make payments on our indebtedness when due. In addition, we may be able to incur additional indebtedness within the limitations contained in our existing credit facilities or, if those facilities are refinanced or repaid, within the limitations of any subsequent credit facilities. Our Convertible Preference Shares may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our Convertible Preference Shares may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Under the terms of the Amended and Restated Memorandum of Association filed with the Registry of Corporate Affairs of the British Virgin Islands, the Convertible Preference Shares have a liquidation preference in the amount of $175.0 million plus accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, which must be paid before holders of ordinary shares would receive funds in the event of liquidation. The holders of Convertible Preference Shares are also entitled to a premium payable by us upon certain fundamental change events. So long as the Convertible Preference Shares are outstanding, we are unable to issue additional preferred shares ranking on parity or senior to the Convertible Preference Shares with respect to dividends, or other distributions upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company without the consent of the holders of Convertible Preference Shares, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to raise additional funds. Ongoing volatility in global trade and in the global economic recovery has adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so in the foreseeable future. In addition, present world economic and geopolitical conditions increase the number and likelihood of risks which we normally face on a day-to-day basis in running our business. Ongoing volatility in global trade and in the global economic recovery has adversely impacted our revenues and results of operations and our business is susceptible to those factors which negatively impact international trade. Volatility in trade volumes also impacts transportation capacity (in both the air and ocean modes), which in turn impacts freight transportation rates, client pricing and our overall margins. As a result of the ongoing volatility and uncertainty in global trade, a number of the risks we normally face have increased. These include: • reduced demand for the products our clients ship, causing a reduction in the demand for the services we provide; 15 Table of Contents • reduced client volumes, which in turn may negatively impact our purchasing power with air and ocean carriers; • increased price competition; • volatility in demand for services, especially with respect to the transactional or “spot” freight services market, which may result in volatility in freight rates and impact transportation capacity and make it more difficult to predict short-term client requirements; and • rapid and material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and/or fuel prices. We conduct business throughout the world and our international presence exposes us to potential difficulties and risks associated with distant operations and to various global, regional and local economic, regulatory, political and other uncertainties and risks. Our South African operations contribute significantly to our overall profitability and any adverse changes in the economic, regulatory or political environment in South Africa could have a materially adverse impact on our overall business and financial results. We conduct business throughout the world and a majority of our business is conducted outside of the United States. We anticipate that revenue from foreign operations will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue and our international operations are directly related to and are dependent on the volume of trade and the social, economic and political conditions in various countries. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, approximately 24%, 24% and 18% of our revenues were reported in our EMENA, Asia Pacific and Africa regions, respectively, and on a combined basis those regions accounted for approximately 61% of our total assets as of January 31, 2014. Our international operations around the world are influenced by many factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic, social and political conditions or governmental policies; • natural disasters, epidemics, wars, acts of terrorism, civil unrest and other disturbances; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations and security requirements; • trade laws, tariffs, export quotas and other trade restrictions; • changes in consumer attitudes towards imported goods as compared to domestically produced goods; • difficulties in staffing, managing or overseeing diverse foreign operations over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • pricing restrictions and regulations imposed by foreign governments; • transfer pricing inquiries by local taxing authorities; • expropriation of our international assets or adverse changes in tax laws and regulations; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or assets, including cash (for example a substantial portion of our cash as of January 31, 2014 is in jurisdictions where repatriation is difficult, such as South Africa and China); • exposure to emerging market currencies; • exchange rate fluctuations, particularly between the South African rand, the euro and the U.S. dollar, respectively; • different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the U.S.; • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.; and • climatic conditions that impact trade. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. 16 Table of Contents Because we manage our business on a localized basis in many countries around the world, our operations and internal controls may be materially adversely affected by inconsistent management practices. We manage our business in many countries around the world, with local and regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, compliance issues, profitability and the growth of the business. This operating approach can make it difficult for us to implement strategic decisions and coordinated practices and procedures throughout our global operations, including implementing and maintaining effective internal controls throughout our worldwide organization. In addition, some of our subsidiaries operate with management, sales and support personnel that may be insufficient to support their respective businesses without regional oversight and global coordination. Our decentralized operating approach results in inconsistent management practices and procedures and could adversely affect our overall profitability, and ultimately our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Antitrust authorities in Singapore and Brazil are currently investigating alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international freight forwarding industry, which includes us, and we may become subject to other governmental investigations, all of which could require significant management time and attention and could result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation, cash flow and prospects. In May 2009, we learned that the Brazilian Ministry of Justice is investigating possible alleged cartel activity in the international air and ocean freight forwarding market. On August 6, 2010, we received notice of an administrative proceeding from the Brazilian Ministry of Justice. The administrative proceeding initiates a proceeding against us, our Brazilian subsidiary and two of its employees, among many other forwarders and their employees, alleging possible anti-competitive behavior contrary to Brazilian rules on competition. Due to substantial delays in notifying each of the defendants, we are not required to respond to this proceeding until May 1, 2014 and we are currently preparing our response. In May 2012, the Competition Commission of Singapore informed us that it was contemplating an administrative investigation into possible alleged cartel activity in the international freight forwarding market. In January 2013 we provided information and documents related to the air Automated Manifest System (AMS) fee in response to a notice we received in November 2012 from the Competition Commission of Singapore requesting the information and indicating that the commission suspected that we engaged in alleged anti-competitive behavior relating to freight forwarding services to and from Singapore. In September 2013, we received a follow-up request for information and provided such information in November 2013. In connection with a prior investigation by the European Commission of alleged anti-competitive behavior relating to air freight forwarding services in the European Union/European Economic Area, we were notified on March 28, 2012 by the EC that the EC had adopted a decision against us and two of our subsidiaries. The EC’s decision imposes a fine of 3.1 million euro (or approximately $4.2 million based on exchange rates in effect at January 31, 2014) against us. We have appealed the decision and the amount of the fine before the European Union’s General Court. We were previously involved in investigations conducted by government agencies in several countries. Although the government agencies in these countries, including the U.S. Department of Justice, the South African Competition Commission and the Canadian Competition Bureau, have closed their related investigations involving the company with no adverse findings, we may receive additional requests for information, documents and interviews from governmental agencies in Brazil, Singapore or other countries with respect to these matters and we have provided, and may provide in the future, further responses as a result of such requests. There can be no assurances that additional regulatory inquiries or investigations will not be commenced or that we will prevail in whole or in part in our appeal before the European Union’s General Court. We do not know when or how the above investigations, or any future investigations will be resolved or what, if any, actions the various governmental agencies may require us and/or any of our current or former officers, directors and employees to take as part of any resolution of the pending investigations. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant legal fees and other costs in connection with these governmental investigations. If any regulatory body concludes that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior, we could incur significant additional legal fees and other costs and penalties, which could include substantial fines, penalties and/or criminal sanctions against us and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors and employees, and we could be liable for damages. Furthermore, a negative outcome could impact our relationship with clients and our ability to generate future revenue. Any of these fees, costs, penalties, sanctions, outcomes or liabilities could be material to our financial results and our business. 17 Table of Contents Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency translation exchange gains or losses or could increase or decrease the book value of our assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2014, we derived a substantial portion of our revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, due to the global nature of our operations, we expect in the foreseeable future to continue to conduct a significant amount of our business in currencies other than our reporting currency. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of other currencies, particularly the euro and the South African rand, as compared to our reporting currency will result in currency translation exchange gains or losses which, if the appreciation or depreciation is significant, could be material. In those areas where our revenue is denominated in a local currency rather than our reporting currency, a depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our reported U.S. dollar earnings, as was the case in recent fiscal years. Our first quarter 2015 results will be adversely affected by a significant weakening of the South Africa Rand that has occurred since January 1, 2014. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our international operations are denominated in each country’s local currency. As such, when the value of those assets is translated into U.S. dollars, foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect the book value of our assets. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services to our clients could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity, changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms, routes of service and frequency of service, or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor, and other factors not within our control. Changes in airfreight or ocean freight capacity, which are outside our control, could negatively impact our yields if capacity is adversely impacted and purchased transportation costs increase more rapidly than the rates that we can pass on to our clients. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our air and ocean freight carriers are subject to increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, including those relating to climate change, which could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business. Future and existing environmental regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating expenses in the airline or other transportation industries, which in turn could increase our purchased transportation costs. If we are unable to pass such costs on to our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. For example, the EU currently requires airlines to surrender emissions allowances equivalent to the amount of carbon dioxide emissions from flights to and from member states of the EU, subject to proposed exemptions for the portion of a flight that occurs outside the European Economic Area, and the International Civil Aviation Organization (an agency of the United Nations) recently agreed to develop by 2016 a global market-based mechanism for carbon dioxide emissions from aviation operations to be implemented in 2020. Additionally, even without any new legislation or regulation, increased public concern regarding greenhouse gases emitted by transportation carriers could harm the reputations of companies operating in the transportation logistics industries and shift consumer demand toward more locally sourced products and away from our services, especially our air freight services. Litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to the risk of litigation by employees, clients, suppliers, government agencies or other third parties through private actions, class actions, administrative proceedings, regulatory actions or other litigation. These actions and proceedings may involve allegations of illegal, unfair or inconsistent employment practices, including wage and hour violations and employment discrimination; misclassification of independent contractors as employees; wrongful termination; loss or damage to goods in storage or in transit; damage to third party property; breach of contract; patent or trademark infringement; violation of the federal securities laws; or other concerns. 18 Table of Contents The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits and regulatory actions, is difficult to assess or quantify. Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts, and the magnitude of the potential loss relating to such lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. The cost to defend litigation may also be significant. As a result, litigation may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to volatile consumer demand. Therefore, historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. Given the seasonality in our business, it may be more difficult for us to generate liquidity to run our business or return to profitability even after taking into account our refinancing which we completed in March 2014. Changes in the shipping patterns of our clients may adversely impact our operating results. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are many companies competing in one or more segments of the industry. We also encounter competition from regional and local third-party logistics providers, freight forwarders, trucking companies and integrated transportation companies. In addition, clients increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. We also face competition from air and ocean carriers, computer information and consulting firms and contract manufacturers, many of which are beginning to expand the scope of their operations to include supply chain related services. Increased competition could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would damage our results of operations and the long-term or short-term prospects of our business. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities resulting from changes in statutory rates, geographical mix of income, tax legislation and audit settlements could affect our profitability and realization of tax benefits. The company’s country of domicile is in the British Virgin Islands. The company conducts its operations through numerous subsidiaries employed in international operations in various countries throughout the world. Our overall annual effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, changes in the enacted statutory rates of the local countries in which our subsidiaries operate, changes in the geographical composition of the company’s worldwide taxable income, changes in the company’s valuation allowance recorded on deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, changes in the company’s unrecognized tax positions regarding the likelihood that a deferred tax asset will be recognized, as well as the impact of audit settlements with local tax authorities upon examination of the company’s or its subsidiaries’ tax returns and changes in legislation that might limit the company’s ability to realize tax benefits from its operations in certain favorable jurisdictions or otherwise limit the availability of such benefits to the company in other jurisdictions. In addition, net operating loss carry-forwards may expire, limiting our ability to benefit from them. Increases in our effective tax rates and tax liabilities could adversely impact our profitability. If our contract terms or insurance policies do not limit or fully cover our exposure, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients and/or other third parties as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or international conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods and losses arising from our errors and omissions. However, these attempts are not always successful. We regularly make payments to our clients for claims related to our services and we expect to make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or the unfavorable resolutions of 19 Table of Contents claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for claims by our clients or other third parties or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, our insurance policies contain limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or where coverage is disputed, and these claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our policies and procedures designed to prevent the unsafe transportation or storage of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials could subject us to large fines, penalties, lawsuits or liabilities. We are subject to a broad range of foreign and domestic (including state and local) environmental, health and safety and criminal laws and regulations, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water, the storage, shipping, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous substances and wastes and the shipment of explosive or illegal substances. In the course of our operations, we may be asked to store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of substances defined as hazardous under applicable laws. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our facilities or client facilities in connection with our contract logistics services or our equipment or from the transporter, we may be required to participate in the cleanup or other remedy of, or otherwise bear liability for, such release or be subject to claims from third parties whose property or person are injured by the release. In addition, if we store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials in violation of applicable laws or regulations, or if we are found to be in violation of other applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines, penalties or other sanctions, including bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas. In addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials, we may be subject to claims from third parties, and bear liability, for such damage or injury even if we were unaware of the presence of the hazardous, explosive or illegal materials. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or revocation of our permits and licenses and we may experience increased costs as a result of governmental regulation. Our air transportation activities in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier and by the Federal Aviation Administration. We are also subject to security measures and strict shipper and client classifications by the Department of Homeland Security through the TSA. Our overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation, as necessary. We are accredited in each of our offices by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) or the Cargo Network Services Corporation, a subsidiary of IATA, as a registered agent. Our indirect air carrier status is also subject to the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program administered by the TSA. We are licensed as a customs broker by the CBP in each U.S. customs district in which we do business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the CBP. As a certified and validated party under the self-policing C-TPAT, we are subject to compliance with security regulations within the trade environment that are enforced by the CBP. We are also subject to regulations under the Container Security Initiative, or CSI, which is administered by the CBP. Our foreign customs brokerage operations are licensed in and subject to the regulations of their respective countries. We are licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by and registered as an ocean transportation intermediary with the Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for shipping agents, including surety bonding requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the economic regulation of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the U.S. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and non-vessel operating common carriers are required to publish tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the U.S., the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than those that do originate or terminate in the U.S. As part of our contract logistics services, we generally operate owned and leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various environmental, work safety and hazardous materials regulations. 20 Table of Contents Certain of our U.S. trucking and truck brokerage operations are subject to regulation by the FMCSA, which is an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. The FMCSA has broad regulatory powers with respect to activities such as motor carrier operations, practices and insurance. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the FMCSA. Subject to federal and state regulation, we may transport most types of freight to and from any point in the U.S. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as the possibility of more stringent environmental, safety or security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or the cost of providing truckload services. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity. If we were found to be out of compliance, our operations could be restricted or otherwise adversely impacted. We may experience an increase in operating expenses, such as costs for security, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. Compliance with changing governmental regulations can be expensive. No assurance can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or the revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If we are not able to sell container space that we commit to purchase from ocean shipping lines, capacity that we purchase or that we charter from our air carriers, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs and our results may suffer. As an airfreight forwarder, we contract with air carriers to reserve space on a guaranteed basis and we also charter aircraft capacity to meet peak season volume increases for our clients, particularly in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia. As a non-vessel operating common carrier, we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at fixed and variable rates. We then solicit freight from our clients to fill the ocean containers, reserved space and air charter capacity. When we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain containers and with air carriers to obtain either reserved space or chartered aircraft capacity, we may become obligated to pay for the container space or charter aircraft capacity that we purchase; however, historically we have not paid for space which remains unused. If we are not able to sell all of our purchased container space or charter aircraft capacity, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs for such purchase of container space or charter aircraft capacity and our results would be adversely affected. Our information technology systems may not keep pace with our competitors and are subject to risks that we cannot control, including risks of accidental system failures or natural disasters and intentional cyber-attacks. We have implemented a variety of internet-based tools and other information technology systems and services, on which we and our clients rely. These tools and systems are integrated into our business, including the way clients place orders and track shipments. We increasingly compete based upon the usefulness and sophistication of technologies incidental to our business and we may not be able to keep pace with our competitors’ information technology offerings. The failure of our information technology systems and services, including our computer systems and websites, or our inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into or with other computer systems and websites, could hinder our business operations and could adversely impact our client service, volumes, net revenues (a non-GAAP measure we use to describe revenue less purchased transportation costs) and result in increased costs. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to: fire; floods; power loss; telecommunications failures; human error; various “Acts of God”; and similar events. Like all websites and other networked information technology systems, our websites and systems are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, including: computer viruses; break-ins; phishing attacks; attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other forms or sabotage; and unauthorized disruptions. Any of these attacks could lead to interruptions, delays, or shutdowns. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our clients and the ability of our clients to access our information technology systems. Additionally, any of these events could cause our or our clients’ confidential proprietary data or information to be compromised or permanently lost. Any or all of these events could negatively 21 Table of Contents impact our ability to attract clients and increase business from existing clients; could cause existing clients to use other logistics providers; and could subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or other liability; all of which could adversely affect our overall profitability, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. Strategic initiatives have been and are expected to continue to be an important element of our strategy, but we may not find suitable opportunities and we may not be able successfully to manage such initiatives in the future. As part of our corporate strategy, we regularly evaluate strategic initiatives and alternatives, including: joint ventures; investments; sales of businesses; and potential mergers or acquisitions. Risks associated with these activities include: accurately assessing the value; strengths; weaknesses; contingent and other liabilities; and potential profitability of the transactions; financing costs; the ability to achieve projected economic and operating synergies, and any cost savings; and the diversion of management attention from our existing business. Our consideration of these types of transactions may disrupt our business and cause customers to lose confidence in our ability to meet their needs. Although we selectively pursue strategic opportunities, some or all of these transactions may not be announced in the foreseeable future, or at all, and they may not be consummated even following announcement. The costs incurred in evaluating and consummating strategic transactions could result in incurring expenses and losses even if any announced transaction may ultimately be beneficial. It may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process, bring action, and enforce judgments against us since we are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands, and a majority of our assets, are located outside of the U.S. and the British Virgin Islands. We understand that although British Virgin Islands courts generally recognize and enforce non-penal judgments of U.S. courts, there is no statutory requirement that these courts do so. As a result, it may be difficult or impractical for you to affect service of process upon, or to enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. against us. It may also be difficult or impossible to bring an action against us or our officers and directors in a British Virgin Islands court in the event you allege violations of U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the British Virgin Islands may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Because we are a holding company, we are financially dependent on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions cannot be made in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends, distributions and advances from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations, including our obligation to make interest payments on the 2019 Notes, and to pay dividends on our ordinary shares and, to the extent we pay cash dividends on our newly issued Convertible Preference Shares, such cash dividends. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay such amounts to us and our ability to receive distributions on our investments is subject to restrictions, including but not limited to applicable local law and limitations contained in our credit facilities and long-term borrowings. Additionally, intercompany payments of dividends, distributions and advances can, in certain circumstances, result in adverse tax effects such as the requirement to pay withholding and corporate income taxes and distribution taxes on dividends and distributions, and can also require, in certain situations, that our subsidiaries make pro-rata payments to the minority interest holders in such entities. In addition, a substantial portion of our cash is located outside the United States in jurisdictions where local law or the terms of agreements binding on the relevant subsidiary makes repatriation difficult, including South Africa and China. As of January 31, 2014, cash balances held in South Africa and China comprised 43% and 13% of our total cash balances, respectively. Further, in general, our subsidiaries cannot pay dividends in excess of their retained earnings. Such laws, restrictions, and effects could limit or impede intercompany dividends and distributions, or the making of intercompany advances which could restrict our ability to continue operations. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which could, if not remediated, result in material misstatements in our financial statements. Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over our financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. As disclosed in Item 9A, management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to the fact that there are currently an insufficient number of shared service center financial accounting and reporting resources to allow for timely analysis and recording of financial statement amounts given the Company’s current migration to its new freight forwarding application. As a result, underlying controls related to account reconciliations and analysis across a number of trade receivable and payable accrual accounts were not operating effectively. A material weakness is defined as a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. As a result of this material weakness, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of January 31, 2014 based on criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control — An Integrated Framework. We are actively engaged in developing a remediation plan designed to address this material weakness. If our remedial measures are insufficient to address the material weakness, or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our consolidated financial statements may contain material misstatements and we could be required to restate our financial results. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, the rights of our shareholders may be different, less well defined and more difficult to protect than the rights of shareholders of a corporation incorporated elsewhere. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended) and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association contain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us and which could reduce the market value of our 22 Table of Contents ordinary shares. Provisions of our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions in our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preference shares with such rights and preferences determined by the board, without the specific approval of the holders of ordinary shares; • the division of our board of directors into three classes, each of which is elected in a different year; • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association without shareholder approval; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • the requirement that the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve changes to specific provisions of our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association • (including those provisions described above and others which are designed to discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts); provided that as a prior condition to such vote by the shareholders our board of directors has approved the subject matter of the vote. In addition, our Articles of Association permit special meetings of the shareholders to be called only by our board of directors upon a resolution of the directors or by the directors upon the written request of holders of more than 30% of our outstanding voting shares. Our Articles of Association also contain a provision limiting business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our shares unless the holder has held such shares for three years or, among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Provisions of British Virgin Islands law to which we are subject could substantially impede the ability of our shareholders to benefit from a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, and impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management and board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 