ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, and the following list should not be considered to be a definitive list of all factors that may affect our business, financial condition and future results of operations and should be read in conjunction with the factors, risks and uncertainties contained in our other filings with the SEC. This Annual Report on Form 10-K, our annual report to our shareholders, any of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or our current reports on Form 8-K, or any other oral or written statements which we may make in connection with a news release or otherwise may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve certain risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of terms or phrases such as “intends,” “intend,” “intended,” “goal,” “estimate,” “estimates,” “expects,” “expect,” “expected,” “project,” “projected,” “projections,” “plans,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “anticipated,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “designed to,” “foreseeable future,” “believe,” “believes,” “scheduled,” and other similar expressions which generally identify forward-looking statements. We caution readers that any forward-looking statements made by us are made with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and that a number of factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in any forward-looking statements. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise. Recent volatility in global trade and the global economic slowdown have adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so in the foreseeable future. In addition, present world economic conditions increase the number and likelihood of risks which we normally face on a day-to-day basis in running our business. Recent volatility in global trade and the global economic slowdown have adversely impacted our revenues and results of operations and our business is susceptible to those factors which negatively impact international trade volumes. Recent volatility in trade volumes has also had a material impact on transportation capacity (in both the air and ocean modes), freight transportation rates, client pricing and the company’s overall margins. As a result of the slowdown in the economies of the United States, Europe and many other countries and the recent volatility and 11 Table of Contents uncertainty in global trade and in the global capital and credit markets, a number of the risks we normally face have increased. These include: • Reduced demand for the products our clients ship, notably in the automotive, retail, apparel and hi-tech sectors, causing a reduction in the demand for the services we provide; • Increased price competition resulting in lower profitability and cash flow; • Deterioration in the financial condition of our clients from decreased sales or our customers experiencing difficulty in raising capital which may in turn adversely impact our ability to collect our outstanding receivables, particularly in the market segments and industries which have been severely impacted by the economic slowdown and where we may have a concentration of clients; • Volatility in demand for services, especially with respect to the transactional or “spot” freight services market, which may result in volatility in freight rates which can negatively impact our margins and profitability; • Deterioration in the financial condition and possible failures of transportation providers with which we have relationships, which may limit our ability to secure sufficient equipment or other transportation services to meet our commitments to our customers; and • Rapid and material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and/or oil prices, each of which may have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, in fiscal 2010 and 2009, we undertook several cost reduction measures designed to streamline our operations and reduce our costs in response to worsening global economic conditions. These measures resulted in us incurring restructuring and impairment charges, which negatively impacted our results of operations. There can be no assurance we will not undertake in the future additional cost reduction measures, that adversely affect our business, results of operations or prospects or which otherwise result in financial charges. The global economic slowdown has increased the risk that the carrying value of our assets will be impaired. As a result, we may be required to record impairment charges to our goodwill, and identifiable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, which would impact the results of our operations. Intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, are assessed at least annually for impairment in accordance with FASB Codification Topic 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (ASC 350). We complete the required impairment test annually in the second quarter, and also when evidence of potential impairment exists. When it is determined that impairment has occurred, a charge to operations is recorded. Additionally, if facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of identifiable amortizable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability in accordance with FASB Codification Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360). If an evaluation is required, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if a reduction to the carrying amount is required. If a reduction is required, the carrying amount of an impaired asset would be reduced to fair value. Changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairment write-downs of our intangible or other assets at any time in the future. In addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. Over the last two fiscal years, we have recorded various non-cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. If global economic conditions further deteriorate, the results of our operations may be affected, and further impairment charges to our goodwill, or impairment charges to our identifiable amortizable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, may be required. Such additional charges could adversely impact our future results of operations. 12 Table of Contents We have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our outstanding indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In July 2006, we issued $200.0 million of senior unsecured guaranteed notes, which we refer to as the 2006 Senior Notes, pursuant to a note purchase agreement (2006 Note Purchase Agreement) and in July 2009 we issued $55.0 million of senior unsecured guaranteed notes (which we refer to as the 2009 Senior Notes and, together with the 2006 Senior Notes, the Senior Notes) pursuant to a note purchase agreement (2009 Note Purchase Agreement, which agreement together with the 2006 Note Purchase Agreement are referred to as the Note Purchase Agreements). In addition, in July 2009 we and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into two letter of credit facilities (Letter of Credit Agreements) and a South African credit facility (South African Facilities Agreement). We also have other credit, letter of credit and guarantee facilities. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us and our shareholders because we must dedicate funds to service our outstanding debt which could limit our ability to use our operating cash flows in other areas of our business or such indebtedness may otherwise increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including movements in interest rates. As the interest rates payable pursuant to the Letter of Credit Agreements and the South African Facilities Agreement adjust, any such adjustments may increase our vulnerability to movements in currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Our indebtedness could also place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt as it could limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes. We may need additional financing to fund our operations, we will need replacement financing for some of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may need additional financing in the future to fund our operations. In addition, when our various credit facilities expire, we will need to obtain replacement financing. In certain circumstances, we could be required to repay our outstanding debt prior to the originally scheduled dates of maturity. For example, if a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreements, the Letter of Credit Agreements or the South African Facilities Agreement) occurs or if we do not comply with the covenants or other requirements in the Note Purchase Agreements and our various credit facilities, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not have enough funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations under the Senior Notes and such credit facilities. Replacement or additional financing may involve incurring additional debt or selling equity securities and may or may not be available to us at such time on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our business could increase. If we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders will be diluted. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we are unable to timely secure replacement or additional financing when needed, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. The Letter of Credit Agreements, Note Purchase Agreements and South African Facilities Agreement contain covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. Such covenants limit our operating and financial flexibility and our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. The Letter of Credit Agreements and the Note Purchase Agreements require that we maintain specified financial ratios and tests. The South African Facilities Agreement contains financial covenants applicable to the borrower group under that credit facility. In addition, the Letter of Credit Agreements, Note Purchase Agreements and South African Facilities Agreement contain various other restrictions and covenants, including covenants customary for these types of financings. These covenants may restrict or may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to assets; • make certain acquisitions, investments, loans or advances or certain expenditures; 13 Table of Contents • enter into agreements to lease real or personal property in excess of certain thresholds or to enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • change the general nature of our business; or • merge or consolidate with other companies or sell assets beyond specified levels. The covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our debt instruments may adversely impact our operations, our ability to secure additional debt financing and our ability to pursue available business opportunities, even if we believe such actions would otherwise be advantageous. Our ability to comply with these covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing trade volumes, adverse economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment. We recently amended the financial covenants in the Letter of Credit Agreements and in the 2009 Note Purchase Agreement and there can be no assurances that we will be able to amend our debt instruments in the future. If we do not comply with these covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions and we are unable to obtain any necessary amendments or waivers from the holders of our Senior Notes and the lenders under any affected credit facility, the interest and principal amounts outstanding under the Senior Notes and our credit facilities may become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, the Note Purchase Agreement, Letter of Credit Agreements and the South African Facilities Agreement each contain cross-default provisions with respect to other indebtedness, giving the lenders under the Letter of Credit Agreements and the South African Facilities Agreement and the note holders under the Note Purchase Agreements the right to declare a default if we default under other indebtedness in some circumstances. Accordingly, defaults under debt agreements could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our business transformation initiative, which we call 4asONE, involves risks, could result in higher than expected costs or otherwise adversely impact our operations and profitability. We are engaged in a multi-year technology-enabled, business transformation initiative, which we refer to as 4asONE. The goal of the 4asONE initiative is to establish a single set of global processes for our freight forwarding business and our global financial management. The scale and anticipated future costs associated with the 4asONE initiative are significant and we could incur significant costs in excess of what we are planning to spend. Any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this project may result in delays, which in turn, may increase the costs of the initiative. Currently, we operate numerous systems with varying degrees of integration, which can lead to inefficiencies, workarounds and rework. As such, delays in the 4asONE initiative will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the initiative. We may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. We conduct business throughout the world and our international presence exposes us to potential difficulties and risks associated with distant operations and to various global, regional and local economic, regulatory, political and other uncertainties and risks. We conduct business throughout the world and a majority of our business is conducted outside of the United States. We anticipate that revenue from foreign operations will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue. Our international operations are directly related to and are dependent on the volume of trade and the social, economic and political conditions in various countries. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, approximately 69% of our revenues were reported in our EMENA, Asia Pacific and Africa regions combined and those regions accounted for approximately 66% of our total assets as of January 31, 2010. Our international operations and international commerce are influenced by many factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic, social and political conditions or governmental policies; • natural disasters, epidemics, wars, acts of terrorism, civil unrest and other disturbances; 14 Table of Contents • changes in international and domestic customs regulations; • trade laws, tariffs, export quotas and other trade restrictions; • difficulties in staffing, managing or overseeing diverse foreign operations over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • pricing restrictions and regulations imposed by foreign governments; • expropriation of our international assets or adverse changes in tax laws and regulations; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or assets, including cash; • different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the United States; and • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Several United States and other foreign governmental agencies are investigating alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air cargo transportation industry, which includes us, we have been named as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit that alleges that we engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices, and we may become subject to other governmental investigations and may be named in additional litigation, all of which have required, and could continue to require, significant management time and attention and could result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation, cash flow and prospects. The United States Department of Justice (U.S. DOJ) and several other governments, including the governments of Canada, New Zealand, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and South Africa, along with the European Union, have conducted inspections or raids at local offices of global freight forwarders or have issued subpoenas or requests for information in connection with various investigations into alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air cargo transportation industry. In June 2007, we responded to a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in connection with the U.S. DOJ’s investigation into the pricing practices in the air cargo transportation industry which had been served on us in June 2006. In October 2007, the U.S. DOJ executed a search warrant on us at our offices in Long Beach, California, and served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting numerous documents and other materials in connection with its investigation of the international air cargo transportation industry. We believe that we are a subject of the U.S. DOJ investigation. In October 2007, we received a notice from the Canadian Competition Bureau that the Bureau had commenced an investigation with respect to alleged anti-competitive activities of persons involved in the provision of international freight forwarding services to and from Canada and requesting that we preserve records relevant to such investigation. On October 30, 2009, we received notice from the Canadian Competition Bureau that it had closed its investigation and has withdrawn its record preservation request. In October 2007, one of our subsidiaries received a notice from the New Zealand Commerce Commission that it was conducting an investigation in relation to international freight forwarding services in New Zealand and requesting that we provide documents and information as they relate to New Zealand. In December 2007, our subsidiary responded to this request. In June 2008 and February 2009, we received requests for information issued by the European Commission (“EC”) requesting information and records relating to the EC’s ongoing investigation of alleged anti-competitive behavior relating to air freight forwarding services in the European Union/European Economic Area. In July 2008 and March 2009, we responded to these requests. In May 2009, we learned that the Brazilian Ministry of Justice is investigating possible alleged cartel activity in the international air and ocean freight forwarding market and as of the date of this filing, we have not been contacted by Brazilian authorities regarding this matter. In November 2009, one of our subsidiaries received a summons from the South African Competition Commission requesting certain information and records in connection with its ongoing investigation of alleged anti-competitive behavior relating to the market 15 Table of Contents for air freight forwarding services in South Africa. In January 2010, we responded to this request. In February 2010, in connection with the EC’s investigation discussed above, the EC sent a Statement of Objections to us and a number of other freight forwarding and logistics providers. The Statement of Objections alleges infringements of European Union competition law with respect to various surcharges. We intend to present our response to the EC’s Statement of Objections in April 2010. There can be no assurances that additional regulatory inquiries or investigations will not be commenced by other U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. We do not know when or how the above investigations or any future investigations will be resolved or what, if any, actions the various governmental agencies may require us and/or any of our current or former officers, directors and employees to take as part of that resolution. We continue to receive additional requests for information, documents and interviews from various governmental agencies with respect to these investigations and we have provided, and will provide in the future, further responses as a result of such requests. A conclusion by the U.S. DOJ, the EC or by another foreign regulatory agency that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior or other unfavorable resolution of these investigations could result in criminal sanctions and/or fines against us and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors and employees. Dealing with investigations and regulatory inquiries can be time consuming and distracting from the conduct of our business. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal fees and other costs in connection with these governmental investigations. In addition, we have been named, along with seven other large European and North American-based global logistics providers, as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit filed in January 2008. This lawsuit alleges that the defendants engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices and seeks an unspecified amount of monetary damages and injunctive relief under U.S. antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that further lawsuits by parties who have allegedly suffered injury in connection with these allegations will not be filed in the future in the U.S. or in other jurisdictions or that additional civil litigation will not result from the pending or any future governmental investigations, including but not limited to, shareholder class action lawsuits. There are uncertainties associated with any litigation and the amount of time necessary to resolve these current and potentially future lawsuits is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. The resolution of the pending investigations by the U.S. DOJ, the EC and other foreign governmental agencies, the dealing with any future domestic or foreign governmental investigations, the defense of our pending civil litigation, and the defense of any additional litigation that may arise relating to these matters could result in significant costs and expenses and the diversion of the attention of key employees. If any of the governmental investigations result in a determination adverse to us and/or our current or former officers, directors and employees or if we do not prevail in the civil litigation, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and substantial fines and penalties and liable for damages. Furthermore, any negative outcome or publicity that may occur from these investigations and litigation could impact our relationships with clients and our ability to generate revenue. These or other negative developments with respect to such governmental investigations or civil litigation could harm our business, operating results, cash flow, financial condition, reputation and prospects. We have grown in the past, and may grow in the future, through acquisitions. Growth by acquisitions involves risks and we may not be able to identify or acquire companies consistent with our growth strategy or successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations. We have grown in the past and we may pursue future opportunities to expand our business by acquiring other companies and business operations. Acquisitions involve risks, including those relating to: • identification of appropriate acquisition candidates or negotiation of acquisitions on favorable terms and valuations; • integrating accounting management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; 16 Table of Contents • implementing or remediating controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • possible write-offs or impairment charges resulting from acquisitions; • diversion of management attention; • retention of senior managers, employees and clients; and • unexpected or unanticipated costs, expenses and liabilities. Acquisitions may affect our short-term cash flow and net income as we expend funds, increase indebtedness and incur additional expenses in connection with pursuing acquisitions. We also may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of our ordinary shares or other securities that we may issue could in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions completed by us in the past have included contingent earn-out arrangements which provide for payments which may be made by us in cash which would reduce the amount of cash available to us or could cause us to incur additional indebtedness or cause us to issue additional shares resulting in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares. If we are not able to identify or acquire companies consistent with our growth strategy or if we fail to successfully integrate any acquired companies into our operations, we may not achieve anticipated increases in revenue, cost savings and economies of scale, and our operating results may be adversely affected. If we fail to develop and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, our business could be seriously harmed. Increasingly, we compete for clients based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent clients from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or clients. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future transaction volumes will decline. In addition, we expect clients to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from their supply chain services providers. If we fail to hire qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose inventory items, orders or clients, which could seriously harm our business. We are dependent on key management personnel and the loss of any such personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends, in part, upon the continued service of our key management personnel, including Eric W. Kirchner (Chief Executive Officer and Director), William T. Gates (Executive Vice President; President, Contract Logistics and Distribution), Gene T. Ochi (Executive Vice President; President, Client Growth), Lawrence R. Samuels (Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer), Ronald S. Glickman (Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer), and Lance E. D’Amico (Senior Vice President — Enterprise Support Services, Global General Counsel and Secretary). The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of management personnel and address issues of succession planning if we are to realize our goal of growing our business. We cannot assure that we will be successful in our efforts. 17 Table of Contents We are dependent on our relationships with our agents, affiliates, key employees and third-party carriers around the world. We conduct business in some countries using a local agent who can provide knowledge of the local market conditions and facilitate the acquisition of necessary licenses and permits. We rely in part upon the services of these agents, as well as our country-level executives, branch managers and other key employees, to market our services, to act as intermediaries with clients and to provide other services on our behalf. Our truck brokerage operations also utilize the services of independent agents and affiliated sales offices, and third-party carriers. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in recruiting or maintaining our relationships with our agents, affiliates or key employees in various foreign countries, or that we will find qualified replacements for agents and key employees who may terminate their relationships with us. Because our agents and employees may occasionally have the primary relationship with certain of our clients, we could lose some clients if a particular agent or key employee were to terminate his or her relationship with us. The loss of, or failure to recruit, qualified agents or employees in a particular country or region could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of our operations and/or the failure to develop our business in that country or region and adversely impact our business. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency translation exchange gains or losses or could increase or decrease the book value of our assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010, we derived a substantial portion of our revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, due to the global nature of our operations, we expect in the foreseeable future to continue to conduct a significant amount of our business in currencies other than our reporting currency. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of other currencies as compared to our reporting currency will result in currency translation exchange gains or losses which, if the appreciation or depreciation is significant, could be material. In those areas where our revenue is denominated in a local currency rather than our reporting currency, a depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our reported U.S. dollar earnings, as was the case in recent fiscal years. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our international operations are denominated in each country’s local currency. As such, when the value of those assets is translated into U.S. dollars, foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect the book value of our assets. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major United States railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major United States railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide these services for our clients could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms, routes of service and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields if capacity is adversely impacted and buying rates increase more rapidly than the rates that we can pass on to our customers. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. 18 Table of Contents Our North American ground transportation businesses are subject to a number of factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our domestic ground transportation businesses could be materially adversely affected by numerous risks beyond our control including: • potential liability to third parties and clients as a result of accidents involving our employees, independent contractors or third party carriers; • increased insurance premiums, the unavailability of adequate insurance coverage, or the solvency of our current insurance providers; • recruitment and retention of independent sales agents and affiliates; • interruptions in services or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes; • changes in fuel costs and taxes; • the ability to effectively pass through fuel cost increases to our clients through commonly accepted fuel surcharges; • the extremely competitive and fragmented nature of the trucking and domestic ground transportation industry; • changes in governmental regulations or legislation impacting the transportation or trucking industry and unanticipated changes in transportation rates; and • potentially adverse effects from state and federal environmental requirements, including, without limitation, new environmental standards enacted by the California Air Resources Board, the Port of Oakland, the Port of Los Angeles or the Port of Long Beach. If any of these risks or others occur, then our business and results of operations would be adversely impacted. In addition, the trucking industry periodically experiences difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors and the shortage of qualified drivers and independent contractors has been severe at times during the past few years. If we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. If we are required to reclassify independent contractors as employees in our trucking, truck brokerage or other carrier businesses, we may incur additional costs and taxes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We use a significant number of independent contractors in our trucking, truck brokerage and other carrier businesses. Currently, there are a number of different tests used in determining whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor and such tests generally take into account multiple factors. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change, or at least challenge, the classification of our independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified our independent contractors, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other U.S. federal or state authorities or similar authorities of a foreign government may determine that we have misclassified our independent contractors for employment tax or other purposes and, as a result, seek additional taxes from us or attempt to impose fines and penalties. In this regard, we are currently involved in a dispute with the South African Revenue Service which is attempting to claim that we are liable for approximately $11.1 million, based on exchange rates as of January 31, 2010, in employee taxes in respect of “owner drivers” used for the collection and delivery of cargo in that country. If we are required to change the classification of our independent contractors, we may incur additional costs and be required to pay additional taxes, relating to past, present and future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and it is likely that they will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand. Therefore, historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. Changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors and changes in the shipping patterns of our clients may adversely impact our operating results. The following additional factors, among others could also cause fluctuations in our operating results: • the recent global economic slowdown and the related impact on global trade; • personnel costs; • costs relating to the expansion of operations; • costs and revenue fluctuations due to acquisitions, dispositions and the exiting of businesses; • changes in accounting rules and tax rates; • pricing and availability of cargo space on airlines, ships and trucks which we utilize to transport freight; • fluctuations in fuel prices and fuel and other surcharges; • pricing pressures from our competitors; • litigation and changes in government regulations; • changes in our clients’ requirements for supply chain services and solutions; • restructuring charges and impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets; • client discounts and credits; and • timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs associated with the 4asONE business transformation initiative. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. We may not succeed with our long-term strategic operating plan, and as a result, our revenue, results of operations and profitability may be adversely impacted. In connection with our five-year strategic operating plan, which we refer to as “CLIENTasONE,” we are undertaking various efforts to increase the number and size of our clients and grow our revenue, improve our operational performance, streamline our back-end operations, develop and implement new systems and train and develop our employees. We face numerous challenges in trying to achieve our objectives under this strategic plan, including challenges involving attempts to leverage client relationships, improve our systems and implement effective change management programs. We also face challenges developing, training and recruiting personnel. Our industry is extremely competitive and our business is subject to numerous factors and risks beyond our control. If we are not able to successfully implement CLIENTasONE, our efforts associated with this strategic plan may not result in increased revenues or improved profitability. If we are not able to increase our revenue or improve our profitability in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are many companies competing in one or more segments of the industry. We also encounter competition from regional and local third-party logistics providers, freight forwarders and integrated transportation companies. In addition, clients increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. We also face competition from air and ocean carriers, computer information and consulting firms and contract manufacturers, many of which are beginning to expand the scope of their operations to include supply chain related services. Increased competition could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would damage our results of operations and the long-term or short-term prospects of our business. Our effective income tax rate will impact our results of operations, cash flow and profitability and the tax returns of some of our subsidiaries are under review by various tax authorities. We have international operations and generate taxable income in different countries throughout the world, with different effective income tax rates. Our future effective income tax rate will be impacted by a number of factors, including changes in enacted statutory tax rates worldwide and the geographical composition of our worldwide taxable income. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by minimum taxes in some jurisdictions which are payable regardless of the level of our pre-tax income in the jurisdiction. Additionally, we may not fully realize tax benefits in certain of our jurisdictions where our subsidiaries have incurred historical tax losses. From time to time, our tax returns are audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the taxing authorities in other countries in which we operate. If the tax laws of the countries in which we operate are rescinded or changed or the United States or other foreign tax authorities were to change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner or jurisdiction in which our profits are recognized or our tax positions, our effective income tax rate could increase or we could become obligated to pay additional taxes, which would adversely impact our cash flow and profitability. Proposed tax legislation in the United States and other jurisdictions in which we operate could affect our ability to realize tax benefits from operations in certain tax jurisdictions. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands and several of our holding companies and operating companies are incorporated in certain tax jurisdictions, including the British Virgin Islands, the Netherlands Antilles, and Guernsey, Channel Islands. In March 2009, U.S. Senator Carl Levin introduced a bill that proposes to treat foreign corporations that are publicly traded or have assets of $50.0 million or more and the management and control of which occurs primarily in the United States as U.S. domestic corporations for income tax purposes. This could potentially subject us to additional United States taxes, which would adversely impact our cash flow and profitability. In addition, the bill proposes to treat all U.S. dividend-based payments to non-U.S. persons as taxable income subject to withholding. The bill would also significantly expand IRS reporting requirements for passive foreign investment companies, although we are not currently a passive foreign investment company and we do not anticipate becoming a passive foreign investment company in the future (see discussion in Item 5 below under the caption “Taxation-United States Federal Income Tax Consequences” below). Because we are a holding company, we are financially dependent on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions cannot be made in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and our ability to receive distributions on our investments in other entities is subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, applicable tax laws and limitations contained in our credit facilities. In general, our subsidiaries cannot pay dividends to us in excess of their retained earnings and most countries in which we conduct business require us to 21 Table of Contents pay a distribution tax on all dividends paid. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us which would restrict our ability to continue operations. Because we manage our business on a localized basis in many countries around the world, our operations and internal controls may be materially adversely affected by inconsistent management practices. We manage our business in many countries around the world, with local and regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, compliance issues, profitability and the growth of the business. This operating approach can make it difficult for us to implement strategic decisions and coordinated practices and procedures throughout our global operations, including implementing and maintaining effective internal controls throughout our worldwide organization. In addition, some of our subsidiaries operate with management, sales and support personnel that may be insufficient to support their respective businesses without regional oversight and global coordination. Our decentralized operating approach could result in inconsistent management practices and procedures and adversely affect our overall profitability, and ultimately our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurances that we will be able to comply in future years with the requirements and deadlines of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), particularly in light of our decentralized management structure. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and this loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. If we are not able to limit our liability for clients’ claims through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or International Conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods and losses arising from our errors and omissions. However, these attempts are not always successful. We have, from time to time, made payments to our clients for claims related to our services and we expect to make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, our insurance policies contain limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or where coverage is disputed, and these claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. The failure of our policies and procedures which are designed to prevent the unlawful transportation or storage of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials could subject us to large fines, penalties or lawsuits. We are subject to a broad range of foreign and domestic (including state and local) environmental, health and safety and criminal laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the shipment of explosive or illegal substances. In the course of our operations, we may be asked to store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of substances defined as hazardous under applicable laws. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our facilities or equipment or from the transporter, we may be required to participate in the remedy of, or otherwise bear liability for, such release or be subject to claims from third parties whose property or person are injured by the release. In addition, if we store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines or penalties, including bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas. In the event we are found to not be in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or there is a future finding that our policies and procedures fail to satisfy requisite minimum safeguards or otherwise do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to large fines, penalties or lawsuits and face criminal liability. In addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials, we 22 Table of Contents may be subject to claims from third parties, and bear liability, for such damage or injury even if we were unaware of the presence of the hazardous, explosive or illegal materials. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or revocation of our permits and licenses and we may experience increased costs as a result of governmental regulation. Our air transportation activities in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier and by the Federal Aviation Administration. We are also subject to security measures and strict shipper and client classifications by the Department of Homeland Security through the TSA. Our overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation, as necessary. We are accredited in each of our offices by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) or the Cargo Network Services Corporation, a subsidiary of IATA, as a registered agent. Our indirect air carrier status is also subject to the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program administered by the TSA. We are licensed as a customs broker by the CBP in each United States customs district in which we do business. All United States customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the CBP. As a certified and validated party under the self-policing C-TPAT, we are subject to compliance with security regulations within the trade environment that are enforced by the CBP. We are also subject to regulations under the Container Security Initiative, or CSI, which is administered by the CBP. Our foreign customs brokerage operations are licensed in and subject to the regulations of their respective countries. We are licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by and registered as an ocean transportation intermediary with the Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for shipping agents, including surety bonding requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the economic regulation of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the U.S. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and non-vessel operating common carriers are required to publish tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the U.S., the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than those that do originate or terminate in the U.S. As part of our contract logistics services, we operate owned and leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various national and state environmental, work safety and hazardous materials regulations. Certain of our U.S. trucking and truck brokerage operations are subject to regulation by the FMCSA, which is an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. The FMCSA has broad regulatory powers with respect to activities such as motor carrier operations, practices and insurance. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the FMCSA. Subject to federal and state regulation, we may transport most types of freight to and from any point in the U.S. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as the possibility of more stringent environmental, safety or security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or the cost of providing truckload services. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity. If we were found to be out of compliance, our operations could be restricted or otherwise adversely impacted. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for security, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. Compliance with changing governmental regulations can be expensive. No assurance can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or the revocation of our operating permits and licenses. 23 Table of Contents If we are not able to sell container space that we commit to purchase from ocean shipping lines, capacity that we purchase or that we charter from our air carriers, and if we are not able to fully utilize our truck capacity, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs and our profitability may suffer. As an indirect ocean carrier or non-vessel operating common carrier, we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at fixed and variable rates. As an airfreight forwarder, we contract with air carriers to reserve space on a guaranteed basis and we also charter aircraft capacity to meet peak season volume increases for our clients, particularly in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia. We then solicit freight from our clients to fill the ocean containers and air charter capacity. When we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain containers and with air carriers to obtain either reserved space or chartered aircraft capacity, we may become obligated to pay for the container space or charter aircraft capacity that we purchase, however, historically we have not paid for space which remains unused. If we are not able to sell all of our purchased container space or charter aircraft capacity, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs for such purchase of container space or charter aircraft capacity and our results would be adversely affected. We also lease or own a number of trucks which are utilized in our trucking business. If we are unable to efficiently utilize these trucks, we will not be able to recover all of our expenses associated with operating these trucks and our results would be adversely affected. If we lose certain of our contract logistics clients or we cannot maintain adequate levels of utilization in our shared warehouses, then we may experience revenue losses and decreased profitability. As a contract logistics provider, we lease single-tenant warehouses and distribution facilities from time to time under leases with terms longer than the contract logistics services contracts we have with our clients. We are required to pay rent under these real property leases even if our clients decide not to renew or otherwise terminate their agreements with us. As a result, our earnings may be adversely affected if we are not able to obtain new clients for these facilities. In addition, if we experience a decline in demand for space in our shared warehouses, then our revenues and earnings may decline as we would continue to be obligated to pay the full amount of the underlying leases. If we are not reimbursed for amounts which we advance for our clients, our revenue and profitability may decrease. We make significant disbursements on behalf of our clients for transportation costs concerning collect freight and customs duties and taxes and in connection with our performance of other contract logistics services. The billings to our clients for these disbursements may be several times larger than the amount of revenue and fees we derive from these transactions. If we are unable to recover a significant portion of these disbursements or if our clients do not reimburse us for a substantial amount of these disbursements in a timely manner, we may experience revenue losses, decreased profitability and our cash flow may be negatively impacted. It may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process and enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and senior managers who reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. Some of our directors and senior managers reside outside the United States, and a majority of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, we have been advised by legal counsel in the British Virgin Islands that it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to effect service of process upon, or to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us or certain of our directors and senior managers, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. 24 Table of Contents Because we are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their rights than it would be for a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the BVI Companies Act, 2004 (No. 16 of 2004) of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many other jurisdictions. Thus, shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or shareholders than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Future issuances of preference shares could adversely affect the holders of our ordinary shares. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 preference shares, of which 50,000,000 have been designated as Class A preference shares and 50,000,000 have been designated as Class B preference shares. Our board of directors may determine the rights and preferences of the Class A and Class B preference shares within the limits set forth in our Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable law. Among other rights, our board of directors may determine, without further vote or action by our shareholders, the dividend, voting, conversion, redemption and liquidation rights of our preference shares. Our board of directors may also amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association to create from time to time one or more classes of preference shares or to increase the authorized number of preference shares. The issuance of any preference shares could adversely affect the rights of the holders of ordinary shares, and therefore reduce the value of the ordinary shares. While currently no preference shares are outstanding, no assurance can be made that we will not issue preference shares in the future. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association contain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us and which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preference shares with such rights and preferences determined by the board, without the specific approval of the holders of ordinary shares; • the division of our board of directors into three classes, each of which is elected in a different year; • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and other proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • the requirement that the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve changes to specific provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association (including those provisions described above and others which are designed to discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts); provided that as a prior condition to such vote by the shareholders our board of directors has approved the subject matter of the vote. In addition, our Articles of Association permit special meetings of the shareholders to be called only by our board of directors upon a resolution of the directors or by the directors upon the written request of holders of more than 30% of our outstanding voting shares. Our Articles of Association also contain a provision limiting business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our shares unless the holder has held such shares for three years or, 25 Table of Contents among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Provisions of British Virgin Islands law to which we are subject could substantially impede the ability of our shareholders to benefit from a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, and impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management and board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 