ITEM 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the risks and uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the following risks and uncertainties should be carefully considered when evaluating our company. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks and uncertainties. We are currently engaged in a multi-year business transformation initiative that involves risks, could result in higher than expected costs and/or could otherwise adversely impact our operations, profitability and/or retention rates for clients and employees. We have undertaken a multi-year business transformation initiative to establish a single set of global processes for our freight forwarding business and our global financial management. As part of this initiative, we are developing our next generation freight forwarding operating system and rationalizing our business segments to a more common organizational structure on a worldwide basis. The scale and anticipated future costs associated with the business transformation initiative are significant and we could incur costs substantially in excess of what we are anticipating spending. Any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this project may result in delays, which in turn, may increase the costs of the initiative. Currently, we operate numerous systems with varying degrees of integration, which can lead to inefficiencies, workarounds and rework. As such, delays in the business transformation initiative will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the initiative. We may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes, implementing shared services and implementing a successful 10 Table of Contents change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Significant changes of this nature may also be disruptive to employees and may negatively impact employee retention rates. Recent volatility in global trade and the global economic slowdown have adversely impacted our results of operations and may continue to do so in the foreseeable future. In addition, present world economic and geopolitical conditions increase the number and likelihood of risks which we normally face on a day-to-day basis in running our business. Recent volatility in global trade and the global economic slowdown have adversely impacted our revenues and results of operations and our business is susceptible to those factors which negatively impact international trade. Volatility in trade volumes also impacts transportation capacity (in both the air and ocean modes), which in turn impacts freight transportation rates, client pricing and our overall margins. As a result of the slowdown in the economies of the U.S., Europe and many other countries and the recent volatility and uncertainty in global trade a number of the risks we normally face have increased. These include: • Reduced demand for the products our clients ship, notably in the automotive, retail, apparel and hi-tech sectors, causing a reduction in the demand for the services we provide; • Increased price competition; • Volatility in demand for services, especially with respect to the transactional or “spot” freight services market, which may result in volatility in freight rates and impact transportation capacity and make it more difficult to predict short-term customer requirements; • Rapid and material fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and/or fuel prices; and • Cash concentration risks associated with maintaining large uninsured cash balances with banks and other financial institutions, which amounted to approximately $300.0 million as of January 31, 2012 Global economic uncertainty has increased the risk that the carrying value of our assets will be impaired. In the future, we may be required to record impairment charges to our goodwill, and identifiable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment, which would impact the results of our operations. Intangible assets with indefinite lives, including goodwill, are assessed at least annually for impairment in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (FASB Codification or ASC) Topic 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other (ASC 350). We complete the required impairment test annually in the second quarter, and also when evidence of potential impairment exists. When it is determined that impairment has occurred, a charge to operations is recorded. Additionally, if facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of identifiable amortizable intangible assets and property, plant and equipment may be impaired, we perform an evaluation of recoverability in accordance with FASB Codification Topic 360, Property, Plant and Equipment (ASC 360). If an evaluation is required, we compare the estimated future undiscounted cash flows associated with the asset to the asset’s carrying amount to determine if a reduction to the carrying amount is required. If a reduction is required, the carrying amount of an impaired asset would be reduced to fair value. In fiscal 2009, 2010 and 2012, we recorded various non-cash charges for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets. Changes in business strategy, government regulations, or economic or market conditions have resulted and may result in further substantial impairment write-downs of our intangible or other assets at any time in the future. In addition, we have been and may be required in the future to recognize increased depreciation and amortization charges if we determine that the useful lives of our fixed assets are shorter than we originally estimated. We conduct business throughout the world and our international presence exposes us to potential difficulties and risks associated with distant operations and to various global, regional and local economic, regulatory, political and other uncertainties and risks. Our South African operations contribute significantly to our overall profitability and any adverse change in the economic, regulatory or political environment in South Africa could have a materially adverse impact on our overall business and financial results. We conduct business throughout the world and a majority of our business is conducted outside of the United States. We anticipate that revenue from foreign operations will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue and our international operations are directly related to and are dependent on the volume of 11 Table of Contents trade and the social, economic and political conditions in various countries. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, approximately 26%, 23% and 18% of our revenues were reported in our EMENA, Asia Pacific and Africa regions, respectively, and on a combined basis those regions accounted for approximately 65% of our total assets as of January 31, 2012. Our international operations around the world are influenced by many factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic, social and political conditions or governmental policies; • natural disasters, epidemics, wars, acts of terrorism, civil unrest and other disturbances; • changes in international and domestic customs regulations and security requirements; • trade laws, tariffs, export quotas and other trade restrictions; • changes in consumer attitudes towards imported goods as compared to domestically produced goods; • difficulties in staffing, managing or overseeing diverse foreign operations over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs; • pricing restrictions and regulations imposed by foreign governments; • transfer pricing inquiries by local taxing authorities; • expropriation of our international assets or adverse changes in tax laws and regulations; • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or assets, including cash; • exchange rate fluctuations, particularly between the South African Rand and the Euro, on one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other; • different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the U.S.; • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S.; and • climatic conditions that impact trade. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Because we manage our business on a localized basis in many countries around the world, our operations and internal controls may be materially adversely affected by inconsistent management practices. We manage our business in many countries around the world, with local and regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, compliance issues, profitability and the growth of the business. This operating approach can make it difficult for us to implement strategic decisions and coordinated practices and procedures throughout our global operations, including implementing and maintaining effective internal controls throughout our worldwide organization. In addition, some of our subsidiaries operate with management, sales and support personnel that may be insufficient to support their respective businesses without regional oversight and global coordination. Our decentralized operating approach results in inconsistent management practices and procedures and could adversely affect our overall profitability, and ultimately our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our outstanding indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In July 2009, we issued $55.0 million of senior unsecured guaranteed notes, which we refer to as the 2009 Notes, pursuant to a note purchase agreement (2009 Note Purchase Agreement) and in June 2011 we issued $150.0 million of senior unsecured guaranteed notes (which we refer to as the 2011 Notes and, together with the 2009 Notes, the Senior Notes) pursuant to a note purchase agreement (2011 Note Purchase Agreement, which agreement together with the 2009 Note Purchase Agreement are referred to as the Note Purchase Agreements). As of January 31, 2012, $205.0 million remained outstanding under the Senior Notes. In addition, in June 2011 12 Table of Contents we and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a new credit agreement with Bank of the West and amended our credit agreements with Nedbank Limited, acting through its London branch (Nedbank) and Royal Bank of Scotland N.V. (RBS) (which we refer to collectively as the 2011 Credit Facilities). The 2011 Credit Facilities provide us availability for cash withdrawals and letters of credit. In July 2009, we and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a South African credit facility (South African Facilities Agreement). We also have other credit, letter of credit and guarantee facilities. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us and our shareholders because we must dedicate funds to service our outstanding debt which could limit our ability to use our operating cash flows in other areas of our business or such indebtedness may otherwise increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including movements in interest rates. Increases in the interest rates payable pursuant to our credit facilities would result in increased borrowing costs. Our indebtedness could also place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt as it could limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes. We may need additional financing to fund our operations, we will need replacement financing for some of our indebtedness, and we may not be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. When our various letters of credit, credit, cash draw and guarantee facilities expire, we will need to replace, refinance or extend the maturity dates of such facilities. In addition, we may need additional financing in the future to fund our operations. In certain circumstances, we could be required to repay our outstanding debt prior to the originally scheduled dates of maturity. For example, if a “Change of Control” (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreements, the 2011 Credit Facilities or the South African Facilities Agreement) occurs or if we do not comply with the covenants or other requirements in the Note Purchase Agreements and our various credit facilities, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not have enough funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations under the Senior Notes and such credit facilities. Replacement or additional financing may involve incurring additional debt or selling equity securities and may or may not be available to us at such time on commercially reasonable terms or otherwise. Changes in the credit markets could adversely affect the terms, upon which we are able to replace, renew or refinance our letters of credit, guarantee and other credit facilities and debt instruments. If we incur additional debt, our short-term or long-term borrowing costs could increase and the risks associated with our business could increase. If we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders will be diluted. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of our ordinary shares. If we are unable to timely secure replacement or additional financing when needed, our financial condition and results of operations would likely be adversely affected. The 2011 Credit Facilities, Note Purchase Agreements and South African Facilities Agreement contain covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us. Such covenants limit our operating and financial flexibility and our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. The 2011 Credit Facilities and the Note Purchase Agreements require that we maintain specified financial ratios and tests. The South African Facilities Agreement contains financial covenants applicable to the borrower group under that credit facility. In addition, the 2011 Credit Facilities, Note Purchase Agreements and South African Facilities Agreement contain various other restrictions and covenants customary for these types of financings. These covenants may restrict or may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or pay dividends or make distributions on our capital stock; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to assets; • make certain acquisitions, investments, loans or advances or certain expenditures; • enter into agreements to lease real or personal property in excess of certain thresholds or enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • change the general nature of our business; or • merge or consolidate with other companies or sell assets beyond specified levels. 13 Table of Contents The covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our debt instruments may adversely impact our operations and our ability to pursue available business opportunities, even if we believe such actions would otherwise be advantageous. Our ability to comply with these covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing trade volumes, adverse economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment. In the past we amended the covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in our credit agreements and debt instruments and have obtained waivers regarding certain provisions. If we do not comply with these covenants, financial ratios and other restrictions in the future and we are then unable to obtain any necessary amendments or waivers, the interest and principal amounts outstanding under such credit agreements and debt instruments may become immediately due and payable. Furthermore, the Note Purchase Agreement, 2011 Credit Facilities and the South African Facilities Agreement each contain cross-default provisions with respect to other indebtedness, giving the lenders under the 2011 Credit Facilities and the South African Facilities Agreement and the note holders under the Note Purchase Agreements the right to declare a default if we default under other indebtedness in some circumstances. Accordingly, defaults under credit agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Several governmental agencies either have investigated or are currently investigating alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air freight forwarding and air cargo transportation industry, which includes us, we have been named as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit that alleges that we engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices, and we may become subject to other governmental investigations and may be named in additional litigation, all of which have required, and could continue to require, significant management time and attention and could result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation, cash flow and prospects. The U.S. Department of Justice (U.S. DOJ) and several other governments, including the government of Brazil and the European Union, have conducted inspections or raids at local offices of global freight forwarders or have issued subpoenas or requests for information in connection with various investigations into alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air freight forwarding and air cargo transportation industry. In 2007, in connection with the U.S. DOJ’s investigation into the pricing practices in the international freight forwarding industry, we responded to a grand jury subpoena requesting documents and the U.S. DOJ executed a search warrant on us at our offices in Long Beach, California, and served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting numerous documents and other materials. In addition to its previous request for documents regarding air freight forwarding, the U.S. DOJ also requested that we produce various documents regarding ocean freight forwarding. We believe that we are a subject of the U.S. DOJ investigation. In 2008, 2009 and 2011, we responded to requests for information issued by the European Commission (“EC”) requesting information and records relating to the EC’s ongoing investigation of alleged anti-competitive behavior relating to air freight forwarding services in the European Union/European Economic Area. In February 2010, in connection with the EC’s ongoing investigation, the EC sent a Statement of Objections to us and a number of other freight forwarding and logistics providers. The Statement of Objections alleges infringements of European Union competition law with respect to various surcharges. We responded in writing to the EC’s Statement of Objections in April 2010. We attended a hearing in July 2010 to discuss our position with the EC officials. On March 28, 2012, we were notified by the EC that the EC had adopted a decision against us and two of our subsidiaries. The EC’s decision imposes a fine of 3.1 million euro (or approximately $4.1 million based on exchange rates in effect as of the date of this filing) against us. As of the date of this filing, we have not yet received the full text of the EC’s decision. We are evaluating our alternatives with respect to the decision and fine, including whether to challenge the decision and the amount of the fine before the European Union’s General Court. As of the date of this filing, we have not made a determination as to any future action which we might take. In May 2009, we learned that the Brazilian Ministry of Justice is investigating possible alleged cartel activity in the international air and ocean freight forwarding market. On August 6, 2010, we received notice of an administrative proceeding from the Brazilian Ministry of Justice. The administrative proceeding initiates a proceeding against us, our Brazilian subsidiary and two of its employees, among many other forwarders and their 14 Table of Contents employees, alleging possible anti-competitive behavior contrary to Brazilian rules on competition. We intend to respond to this proceeding within 30 days after the last defendant in this global proceeding has been notified. From time to time, we receive additional requests for information, documents and interviews from various governmental agencies with respect to these investigations and we have provided, and will provide in the future, further responses as a result of such requests. There can be no assurances that additional regulatory inquiries or investigations will not be commenced by other U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. We do not know when or how the above investigations, any future action we might take with respect to the decision and fine by the EC, or any future investigations will be resolved or what, if any, actions the various governmental agencies may require us and/or any of our current or former officers, directors and employees to take as part of any resolution of the pending investigations. We have incurred, and may in the future incur, significant legal fees and other costs in connection with these governmental investigations. If the U.S. DOJ, or any other regulatory body concludes that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior or if we do not prevail in related civil litigation, we could incur significant additional legal fees and other costs and penalties, which could include substantial fines, penalties and/or criminal sanctions against us and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors and employees, and we could be liable for damages. Any of these fees, costs, penalties, sanctions or liabilities could be material to our financial results. In addition, we have been named, along with seven other large European and North American-based global logistics providers, as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit filed in January 2008. This lawsuit alleges that the defendants engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices and seeks an unspecified amount of monetary damages and injunctive relief under U.S. antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that further lawsuits by parties who have allegedly suffered injury in connection with these allegations will not be filed in the future in the U.S. or in other countries or that additional civil litigation will not result from the pending or any future governmental investigations, including but not limited to, shareholder class action lawsuits. There are uncertainties associated with any litigation and the amount of time necessary to resolve these current and potentially future lawsuits is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. The resolution of the pending investigations by the U.S. DOJ and other foreign governmental agencies, any future action we might take with respect to the decision and fine by the EC, the process of dealing with any future domestic or foreign governmental investigations, the defense of our pending civil litigation, and the defense of any additional litigation that may arise relating to these matters could result in significant costs and expenses. Dealing with investigations, legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries can be time consuming and diverts the attention of our key employees from the conduct of our business. If other governmental investigations result in a determination adverse to us and/or our current or former officers, directors or employees or if we do not prevail in the civil litigation, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and substantial fines and penalties and we could be liable for damages, which could be material to our financial results. Furthermore, any negative outcome or publicity that may occur from these investigations and litigation could impact our relationships with clients and our ability to generate revenue. These or other negative developments with respect to such governmental investigations or civil litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, cash flow, financial condition, reputation and prospects. We have grown in the past, and may grow in the future, through acquisitions. Growth by acquisitions involves risks and we may not be able to successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations. We have grown in the past and we may grow in the future by acquiring other companies and business operations. Acquisitions involve risks, including those relating to: • identification of appropriate acquisition candidates or negotiation of acquisitions on favorable terms and valuations; • integrating accounting management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; • implementing or remediating controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • possible write-offs or impairment charges resulting from acquisitions; 15 Table of Contents • diversion of management attention; • retention of senior managers, employees and clients; and • unexpected or unanticipated costs, expenses and liabilities. Acquisitions may affect our short-term cash flow and net income as we expend funds, increase indebtedness and incur additional expenses in connection with pursuing acquisitions. We also may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of our ordinary shares or other securities that we may issue could in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions completed by us in the past have included contingent earn-out arrangements which provide for payments which may be made by us in cash which would reduce the amount of cash available to us or could cause us to incur additional indebtedness or cause us to issue additional shares resulting in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares. If we fail to successfully integrate any acquired companies into our operations, we may not achieve anticipated increases in revenue, cost savings and economies of scale, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We are dependent on key management personnel and the loss of any such personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends, in part, upon the continued service of our key management personnel, including Eric W. Kirchner (Chief Executive Officer and Director), Edward G. Feitzinger (Executive Vice President, Global Contract Logistics and Distribution), Gene T. Ochi (Executive Vice President; President, Client Growth), Lawrence R. Samuels (Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer), Ronald S. Glickman (Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer) and Lance E. D’Amico (Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer). The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of management personnel and address issues of succession planning if we are to realize our goal of growing our business. We cannot give assurance that we will be successful in our efforts or that our succession planning efforts will be effective in the event of any unplanned loss of key personnel. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency translation exchange gains or losses or could increase or decrease the book value of our assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012, we derived a substantial portion of our revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, due to the global nature of our operations, we expect in the foreseeable future to continue to conduct a significant amount of our business in currencies other than our reporting currency. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of other currencies, particularly the Euro and the South African Rand, as compared to our reporting currency will result in currency translation exchange gains or losses which, if the appreciation or depreciation is significant, could be material. In those areas where our revenue is denominated in a local currency rather than our reporting currency, a depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our reported U.S. dollar earnings, as was the case in recent fiscal years. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our international operations are denominated in each country’s local currency. As such, when the value of those assets is translated into U.S. dollars, foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect the book value of our assets. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide services to our clients could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity, changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as scheduling, pricing, payment terms, routes of service and frequency of service, or increases in the cost of 16 Table of Contents fuel, taxes and labor, and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields if capacity is adversely impacted and purchased transportation costs increase more rapidly than the rates that we can pass on to our clients. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our air and ocean freight carriers are subject to increasingly stringent laws protecting the environment, which could directly or indirectly have a material adverse effect on our business. Future regulatory developments in the U.S. and abroad could adversely affect operations and increase operating costs in the airline or other transportation industries, which in turn could increase our purchased transportation costs. If we are unable to pass such costs on to our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. The EU has issued a directive to member states to include aviation in its Greenhouse Gas ETS, which effective January 1, 2010 required airlines to monitor their emissions of carbon dioxide. Since January 2012 the EU ETS has required airlines to have emissions allowances equal to the amount of their carbon dioxide emissions to operate flights to and from member states of the EU, including flights between the U.S. and the EU. Other regulatory actions that may be taken in the future by the U.S. government, other foreign governments or other regulatory bodies such as the International Civil Aviation Organization to address concerns about climate change and emissions from the aviation and ocean freight sectors are unknown at this time. Climate change legislation has been introduced in the U.S. Congress, including a proposal to require transportation fuel producers and importers to acquire allowances sufficient to offset the emissions resulting from combustion of their fuels. We cannot predict, however, if any such legislation will pass the Congress or, if passed and enacted into law, how it would specifically apply to the aviation and ocean freight industry. In addition, effective January 14, 2010, the Administrator of EPA found that current and projected concentrations of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere threaten the public’s health and welfare. Although legal challenges and legislative proposals are expected that may invalidate this endangerment finding and the EPA’s assertion of authority under the Clean Air Act, the finding could result in EPA regulation of commercial aircraft emissions if EPA finds, as expected, that such emissions contribute to greenhouse gas pollution. Additionally, even without any new legislation or regulation, increased public concern regarding greenhouse gases emitted by transportation carriers could harm the reputations of companies operating in the transportation logistics industries and shift consumer demand toward more locally sourced products and away from our services, especially our air freight services. If we are required to reclassify independent contractors as employees in our trucking, truck brokerage or other carrier businesses, we may incur additional costs and taxes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We use a significant number of independent contractors in our trucking, truck brokerage and other carrier businesses. Currently, there are a number of different tests used in determining whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor and such tests generally take into account multiple factors. These tests also vary widely from country to country. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change, or at least challenge, the classification of our independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified our independent contractors, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or other U.S. federal or state authorities or similar authorities of a foreign government may determine that we have misclassified our independent contractors for employment tax or other purposes and, as a result, seek additional taxes from us or attempt to impose fines and penalties. If we are required to change the classification of our independent contractors, we may incur additional costs and be required to pay additional taxes, relating to past, present and future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We are currently involved in a dispute with the South African Revenue Service which claims that we are liable for approximately $9.2 million, based on exchange rates as of January 31, 2012, in employee taxes in respect of “owner drivers” used for the collection and delivery of cargo in that country. The Company is presently engaged in formal settlement discussions with the South African Revenue Service relating to this matter. Although a formal agreement has not been signed, during the fourth quarter ended January 31, 2012, the company recorded a charge of $3.1 million, which amount represents the company’s best estimate of the total settlement value for all years under dispute based on the settlement discussions to date. On March 28, 2012, we 17 Table of Contents received verbal confirmation from the South African Revenue Service that it had accepted our latest settlement proposal; accordingly we do not anticipate any further costs associated with this matter. Notwithstanding that fact, there can be no assurance that a formal agreement will be signed or, if a settlement agreement is signed, that the final amount will not exceed $3.1 million. Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and likely will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to volatile consumer demand. Therefore, historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. Changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors and changes in the shipping patterns of our clients may adversely impact our operating results. The following additional factors, among others could also cause fluctuations in our operating results: • costs relating to the expansion of operations; • changes in accounting rules and tax rates; • changes in exchange rates, particularly between the South African Rand and the Euro, on one hand, and the U.S. dollar, on the other; • pricing and availability of cargo space on airlines, ships and trucks which we utilize to transport freight; • fluctuations in fuel prices and fuel and other surcharges; • pricing pressures from our competitors; • litigation and changes in government regulations; • changes in our clients’ requirements for supply chain services and solutions; • yields and mix of business; and • restructuring charges and impairments to goodwill and other intangible assets, and severance and facility exit costs. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Additionally, there can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, customs brokerage, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are many companies competing in one or more segments of the industry. We also encounter competition from regional and local third-party logistics providers, freight forwarders, trucking companies and integrated transportation companies. In addition, clients increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. We also face competition from air and ocean carriers, computer information and consulting firms and contract manufacturers, many of which are beginning to expand the scope of their operations to include supply chain related services. Increased competition could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which would damage our results of operations and the long-term or short-term prospects of our business. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities resulting from changes in statutory rates, geographical mix of income, tax legislation and audit settlements could affect our profitability and realization of tax benefits. The company is headquartered in the British Virgin Islands and is comprised of numerous subsidiaries employed in international operations in various countries throughout the world. Our overall annual effective tax 18 Table of Contents rate is impacted by a number of factors including, but not limited to, changes in the enacted statutory rates of the local countries in which our subsidiaries operate, changes in the geographical composition of the company’s worldwide taxable income, changes in the company’s valuation allowance recorded on deferred tax assets where it is more likely than not that the deferred tax asset will not be realized, changes in the company’s unrecognized tax positions regarding the likelihood that a deferred tax asset will be recognized, as well as the impact of audit settlements with local tax authorities upon examination of the company’s or its subsidiaries’ tax returns and changes in legislation that might limit the company’s ability to realize tax benefits from its operations in certain favorable jurisdictions or otherwise limit the availability of such benefits to the company in other jurisdictions. Increases in our effective tax rates and tax liabilities could adversely impact our profitability. If our contract terms or insurance policies do not limit or fully cover our exposure, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients and/or other third parties as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or international conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods and losses arising from our errors and omissions. However, these attempts are not always successful. We have, from time to time, made payments to our clients for claims related to our services and we expect to make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or the unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for claims by our clients or other third parties or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, our insurance policies contain limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or where coverage is disputed, and these claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. The failure of our policies and procedures which are designed to prevent the unsafe transportation or storage of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials could subject us to large fines, penalties or lawsuits. We are subject to a broad range of foreign and domestic (including state and local) environmental, health and safety and criminal laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, shipping, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the shipment of explosive or illegal substances. In the course of our operations, we may be asked to store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of substances defined as hazardous under applicable laws. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our facilities or equipment or from the transporter, we may be required to participate in the remedy of, or otherwise bear liability for, such release or be subject to claims from third parties whose property or person are injured by the release. In addition, if we store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines or penalties, including bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas. In the event we are found to not be in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or there is a future finding that our policies and procedures fail to satisfy requisite minimum safeguards or otherwise do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to significant fines, penalties or lawsuits and face criminal liability. In addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials, we may be subject to claims from third parties, and bear liability, for such damage or injury even if we were unaware of the presence of the hazardous, explosive or illegal materials. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or revocation of our permits and licenses and we may experience increased costs as a result of governmental regulation. Our air transportation activities in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier and by the Federal Aviation Administration. We are also subject to security measures and strict shipper and client classifications by the Department of Homeland Security through the TSA. Our overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation, as necessary. We are accredited in each of our offices by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) or the Cargo Network Services Corporation, a subsidiary of IATA, as a registered agent. Our indirect air carrier status is also 19 Table of Contents subject to the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program administered by the TSA. We are licensed as a customs broker by the CBP in each U.S. customs district in which we do business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the CBP. As a certified and validated party under the self-policing C-TPAT, we are subject to compliance with security regulations within the trade environment that are enforced by the CBP. We are also subject to regulations under the Container Security Initiative, or CSI, which is administered by the CBP. Our foreign customs brokerage operations are licensed in and subject to the regulations of their respective countries. We are licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by and registered as an ocean transportation intermediary with the Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for shipping agents, including surety bonding requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the economic regulation of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the U.S. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and non-vessel operating common carriers are required to publish tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the U.S., the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than those that do originate or terminate in the U.S. As part of our contract logistics services, we generally operate owned and leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various environmental, work safety and hazardous materials regulations. Certain of our U.S. trucking and truck brokerage operations are subject to regulation by the FMCSA, which is an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. The FMCSA has broad regulatory powers with respect to activities such as motor carrier operations, practices and insurance. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the FMCSA. Subject to federal and state regulation, we may transport most types of freight to and from any point in the U.S. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as the possibility of more stringent environmental, safety or security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or the cost of providing truckload services. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity. If we were found to be out of compliance, our operations could be restricted or otherwise adversely impacted. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for security, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. Compliance with changing governmental regulations can be expensive. No assurance can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or the revocation of our operating permits and licenses. If we are not able to sell container space that we commit to purchase from ocean shipping lines, capacity that we purchase or that we charter from our air carriers, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs and our profitability may suffer. As an indirect ocean carrier or non-vessel operating common carrier, we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at fixed and variable rates. As an airfreight forwarder, we contract with air carriers to reserve space on a guaranteed basis and we also charter aircraft capacity to meet peak season volume increases for our clients, particularly in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia. We then solicit freight from our clients to fill the ocean containers, reserved space and air charter capacity. When we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain containers and with air carriers to obtain either reserved space or chartered aircraft capacity, we may become obligated to pay for the container space or charter aircraft capacity that we purchase; however, historically we have not paid for space which remains unused. If we are not able to sell all of our purchased container space or charter aircraft capacity, we may not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs for such purchase of container space or charter aircraft capacity and our results would be adversely affected. 20 Table of Contents If we are not reimbursed for amounts which we advance for our clients, our revenue and profitability may decrease and our results of operations may be adversely impacted. We make significant advances and disbursements on behalf of our clients for transportation costs concerning collect freight and customs duties and taxes and in connection with our performance of other contract logistics services. These advances and disbursements temporarily consume cash as they are typically paid to third parties in advance of reimbursement from clients. The billings to our clients for these disbursements may be several times larger than the amount of revenue and fees we derive from these transactions. If we are unable to recover a significant portion of these disbursements or if our clients do not reimburse us for these disbursements in a timely manner, we may experience losses and our cash flows and results of operations would be negatively impacted. Our information technology systems may not keep pace with our competitors and are subject to risks that we cannot control, including risks of accidental system failures or natural disasters and intentional cyber-attacks. We have implemented a variety of internet-based tools and other information technology systems and services, on which we and our clients rely. These tools and systems are integrated into our business, including the way clients place orders and track shipments. We increasingly compete based upon the usefulness and sophistication of technologies incidental to our business and we may not be able to keep pace with our competitors’ information technology offerings. The failure of our information technology systems and services, including our computer systems and websites, or our inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into or with other computer systems and websites, could hinder our business operations and could adversely impact our client service, volumes, net revenues (a Non-GAAP measure we use to describe revenue less purchased transportation costs) and result in increased costs. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, human error, various “Acts of God” and similar events. Like all websites and other networked information technology systems, our websites and systems are vulnerable to cyber-attacks, including computer viruses, break-ins, phishing attacks, attempts to overload our servers with denial-of-service or other forms or sabotage and unauthorized disruptions, any of which could lead to interruptions, delays, or shutdowns. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our clients and the ability of our clients to access our information technology systems. Additionally, any of these events could cause our or our clients’ confidential proprietary data or information to be compromised or permanently lost. Any or all of these events could negatively impact our ability to attract clients and increase business from existing clients, cause existing clients to use other logistics providers, subject us to third-party lawsuits, regulatory fines or other action or other liability, which could adversely affect our overall profitability, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. It may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process, bring action, and enforce judgments against us or our directors and officers who reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. Some of our officers and directors reside outside the U.S. and the British Virgin Islands, and some or all of their assets, and a majority of our assets, are located outside of the U.S. and the British Virgin Islands. As a result, it may be difficult or impractical for you to effect service of process upon, or to enforce judgments obtained in the U.S. against these individuals or against us. We understand that although British Virgin Islands courts generally recognize and enforce non-penal judgments of U.S. courts, there is no statutory requirement that these courts do so. It may also be difficult or impossible to bring an action against us or our officers and directors in a British Virgin Islands court in the event you allege violations of U.S. federal securities laws or otherwise. Even if you are successful in bringing an action of this kind, the laws of the British Virgin Islands may render you unable to enforce a judgment against our assets or the assets of our directors and officers. Because we are a holding company, we are financially dependent on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions cannot be made in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends or distributions from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on 21 Table of Contents our ordinary shares. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and our ability to receive distributions on our investments is subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, limitations contained in our credit facilities. Some of our subsidiaries may be subject from time to time to exchange control laws and regulations that may limit or restrict the payment of dividends or distributions or other transfers of funds by those subsidiaries to our holding company. In general, our subsidiaries cannot pay dividends to us in excess of their retained earnings and most countries in which we conduct business require us to pay a distribution tax on all dividends paid. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us which would restrict our ability to continue operations. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, the rights of our shareholders may be different, less well defined and more difficult to protect than the rights of shareholders of a corporation incorporated elsewhere. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the BVI Business Companies Act, 2004 (as amended) and the common law of the British Virgin Islands. The rights of our shareholders and the fiduciary responsibilities of our directors under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as they would be under statutes or judicial precedents in the United States. British Virgin Islands companies may not have standing to initiate a shareholder derivative action before the federal courts of the United States. As a result, our shareholders may have more difficulty in protecting their interests through actions against our management or directors than would shareholders of a corporation incorporated in a jurisdiction in the United States. Future issuances of preference shares could adversely affect the holders of our ordinary shares. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 preference shares, of which 50,000,000 have been designated as Class A preference shares and 50,000,000 have been designated as Class B preference shares. Our board of directors may determine the rights and preferences of the Class A and Class B preference shares within the limits set forth in our Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable law. Among other rights, our board of directors may determine, without further vote or action by our shareholders, the dividend, voting, conversion, redemption and liquidation rights of our preference shares. Our board of directors may also amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association to create from time to time one or more classes of preference shares or to increase the authorized number of preference shares. The issuance of any preference shares could adversely affect the rights of the holders of ordinary shares, and therefore reduce the value of the ordinary shares. While currently no preference shares are outstanding, no assurance can be made that we will not issue preference shares in the future. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association contain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us and which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preference shares with such rights and preferences determined by the board, without the specific approval of the holders of ordinary shares; • the division of our board of directors into three classes, each of which is elected in a different year; • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders; • the ability of our board of directors to amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval; • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings; and • the requirement that the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve changes to specific provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association (including those provisions described above and others which are designed to discourage non-negotiated takeover attempts); provided that as a prior condition to such vote by the shareholders our board of directors has approved the subject matter of the vote. 22 Table of Contents In addition, our Articles of Association permit special meetings of the shareholders to be called only by our board of directors upon a resolution of the directors or by the directors upon the written request of holders of more than 30% of our outstanding voting shares. Our Articles of Association also contain a provision limiting business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our shares unless the holder has held such shares for three years or, among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Provisions of British Virgin Islands law to which we are subject could substantially impede the ability of our shareholders to benefit from a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, and impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management and board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 