Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces risks. Any of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, or elsewhere in this report or our other filings with the Commission, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected. General economic factors could adversely affect our financial performance and other aspects of our business. General economic conditions and trade, monetary and fiscal polices impact our business and the industries we serve. Since at least as early as the third quarter of 2008, macroeconomic conditions have deteriorated. A further or prolonged slowdown in the economy or other economic conditions affecting overall unemployment levels, business and consumer spending and retail strength may adversely affect our operating results by, among other things: (i) decreasing revenue in our HRS business through decreased customer employee counts or amounts of employee wage and bonus payments, diminished or slowing customer orders and timing of product installations and reduced spending on outsourcing or pressure to renegotiate existing contacts; (ii) decreasing revenue at Comdata as the result of lower fuel prices and decreased activity in the transportation industries and increased credit or bad debt risk with respect to customers purchasing fuel using a Comdata payment method; and (iii) decreasing revenue at SVS due to decreased activity in the retail industry. Additionally, lower interest rates and risk associated with certain investment options have caused a decrease in our revenue from interest in customer funds held in trust. Current global economic conditions and uncertainties concerning the potential for failures or realignments of financial institutions and the related impact on available credit may also adversely affect us or our business partners and customers by reducing access to capital or credit, increasing cost of debt and limiting ability to manage interest rate risk, and increasing the risk of bankruptcy of parties with which we do business, including credit or debt related counterparties. Such economic conditions and uncertainties may also adversely affect us and our business partners and customers through increased investment related risks by decreasing liquidity and/or increasing investment losses. In addition, we are dependent upon various large banks to execute payment transactions as part of our client payroll and tax services. Significant changes in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations, procedures and requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. Changes in or the elimination of governmental regulations may adversely affect our revenue and earnings and the way in which we conduct our business. Changes in governmental regulations are difficult to predict and could be significant. For example, the timing and amount of remittances associated with the investment of customer funds, a reduction in the period of time we are allowed to hold remittances as well as the amount of such remittances, may decrease our revenue and earnings. As another example, the extent and type of benefits that employers are required to or may choose to provide to employees and/or the amount and type of federal or state taxes employers and employees are required to pay will affect the revenue and earnings associated with the products or services that we may sell. As a third example, Comdata is currently licensed on the state level by the banking or financial institutions departments of numerous states. Continued licensing by these states is subject to ongoing satisfaction of compliance requirements regarding safety and soundness. Changes in this regulatory environment, including the implementation of new or varying measures by the government, may significantly affect or change the manner in which we currently conduct some of the aspects of our business. Regulatory changes may also restrict or eliminate present and future business opportunities available to us. If we are unable to timely and appropriately comply with existing or changed government regulations, there may be an adverse affect on our financial results and we may be subject to injunctions, other sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties. Our ability to implement and execute our strategic plans or realize the anticipated cost savings related to our operating improvement plan may not be successful and, accordingly, we may not be successful in achieving our strategic goals, which may adversely affect our business. We may not be successful in developing and implementing our strategic plans for our businesses or the operational plans that have been or need to be developed to implement the strategic plans, including our operational improvement plan intended to improve margins in our U.S. HRS business. See discussion of our operational improvement plan in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations — Operating Improvement Plan” contained in this report. If the development or implementation of such plans are not successful or, with respect to our operational improvement plan, we are unable to successfully realize cost savings in one or more elements of our business, we may not produce the revenue, margins, earnings or synergies that we need to be successful. We may also face delays or difficulties in implementing product, process and system 15 Table of Contents improvements which could adversely affect the timing or effectiveness and margin improvement efforts in our business and our ability to successfully compete in the markets we serve. In addition, the costs associated with implementing our plans, including one-time costs associated with our operating improvement plan, may exceed anticipated amounts and we may not have sufficient financial resources to fund all of the desired or necessary investments required in connection with our plans. The execution of our strategic and operating plans will, to some extent, also be dependent on external factors that we cannot control. In addition, these strategic and operational plans need to continue to be assessed and reassessed to meet the challenges and needs of our businesses in order for us to remain competitive. The failure to implement and execute our strategic and operating plans in a timely manner or at all, realize the cost savings or other benefits or improvements associated with such plans, have financial resources to fund the costs associated with such plans or incur costs in excess of anticipated amounts, or sufficiently assess and reassess these plans could adversely affect our business or financial results. Our indebtedness could adversely affect our operations and restrict our ability to pursue our business strategies. Our debt, including the related restrictive covenants that impose operating and financial restrictions on us, and our other financial obligations could have important consequences to us, such as: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic, competitive and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, general corporate purposes or other purposes on satisfactory terms or at all; • requiring us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to the payment of our indebtedness, thereby reducing the funds available to us for operations and any future business opportunities; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, which are at variable rates of interest; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions, causing us to make non-strategic divestitures, or limiting our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interests (including merging or consolidating with another person, selling or otherwise disposing of all or substantially all of our assets, redeeming, repurchasing or retiring our capital stock, subordinated debt or certain other debt or incurring or guaranteeing additional debt); • limiting our planning flexibility for, or ability to react to, changes in our business and the industries in which we operate; and • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions. If we fail to make any required payment under our indebtedness or to comply with any of the financial and operating covenants related thereto, we will be in default. Our lenders could then vote to accelerate the maturity of the indebtedness and foreclose upon our and our subsidiaries’ assets securing such indebtedness. Other creditors might then accelerate other indebtedness. If any of our creditors accelerate the maturity of their indebtedness, we may not have sufficient assets to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur additional indebtedness in the future. If we incur additional debt above the levels in effect, the risks associated with our leverage would increase. Our results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to retain our existing customers, sell additional products and services to our existing customers, introduce new or enhanced products and services and attract and retain new customers. Our revenue and revenue growth are dependent on our ability to retain customers, sell them additional products and services, introduce new products and services and attract new customers in each of our businesses. Our ability to increase revenue will depend on a variety of factors, including: • customer willingness to accept any price increases; • the quality and perceived value of our product and service offerings by existing and new customers; • effective sales and marketing efforts; • our speed to market and avoidance of difficulties or delays in development of new products and services and the successful implementation of products and services for new and existing customers; • availability of capital to complete investments in new or complementary products and technologies; • our ability to integrate technology into our products and services to avoid obsolescence and provide scalability; and 16 Table of Contents • the regulatory needs and requirements facing us and our customers and our ability to meet increased customary regulatory requirements. Our inability to retain existing customers, sell additional products and services, or successfully develop and implement new and enhanced products and services and attract new customers and, accordingly, increase our revenues could adversely affect our future results of operations. A breach of our IT security, loss of customer data or system disruption could adversely affect our business and reputation. Our business is dependent on our payroll, transaction, financial, accounting and other data processing systems. We rely on these systems to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions. Any security breach in our business processes and/or systems has the potential to impact our customer information and our financial reporting capabilities which could result in the potential loss of business and our ability to accurately report financial results. If any of these systems fail to operate properly or become disabled even for a brief period of time, we could potentially lose control of customer data and we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. In addition, any issue of data privacy as it relates to unauthorized access to or loss of customer and/or employee information could result in the potential loss of business, damage to our market reputation, litigation and regulatory investigation and penalties. Our continued investment in the security of our IT systems, continued efforts to improve the controls within our IT systems, business processes improvements, and the enhancements to our culture of information security may not successfully prevent attempts to breach our security or unauthorized access to confidential, sensitive or proprietary information. In addition, in the event of a catastrophic occurrence, either natural or man-made, our ability to protect our infrastructure, including client data, and maintain ongoing operations could be significantly impaired. Our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and strategies may not be successful in mitigating the effects of a catastrophic occurrence. If our security is breached, confidential information accessed or we experience a catastrophic occurrence, our business and operating results could be significantly adversely affected. Our success will depend on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. The success of our business will depend, in part, on preserving our trade secrets and maintaining the security of our know-how and data; and operating without infringing upon patents and proprietary rights held by third parties. Failure to protect, monitor and control the use of our intellectual property rights could cause us to lose a competitive advantage and incur significant expenses. We rely on a combination of contractual provisions, confidentiality procedures and copyright, trademark, service mark and trade secret laws to protect the proprietary aspects of our brands, technology, data and estimates. These legal measures afford only limited protection, and competitors or others may gain access to our intellectual property and proprietary information. Our trade secrets, data and know-how could be subject to unauthorized use, misappropriation, or disclosure, despite having required our employees, consultants, customers, and collaborators to enter into confidentiality agreements. Our trademarks could be challenged, forcing us to re-brand our products or services, resulting in loss of brand recognition and requiring us to devote resources to advertising and marketing new brands. Furthermore, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets and to determine the validity and scope of our proprietary rights. The intellectual property laws and other statutory and contractual arrangements we currently depend upon may not provide sufficient protection in the future to prevent the infringement, use or misappropriation of our trademarks, data, technology and other products and services. In addition, the growing need for global data, along with increased competition and technological advances, puts increasing pressure on us to share our intellectual property for client applications. Policing unauthorized use of intellectual property rights can be difficult and expensive, and adequate remedies may not be available. Any future litigation, regardless of outcome, could result in substantial expense and diversion of resources with no assurance of success and could adversely affect our business, results of operation and financial condition. The failure of our HRS business to comply with applicable laws could result in substantial taxes, penalties and liabilities that could adversely affect our business. We are subject to various laws and regulations, and our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could adversely affect our business. For example, our HRS customers remit employer and employee tax funds to our HRS businesses. Our HRS business processes the data received from its customers and remits the funds along with a tax return to the appropriate taxing authorities when due. Under various service agreements with its customers, our HRS business assumes financial responsibility for the payment of the taxes, penalties and liabilities assessed against its customers arising out of the failure of our HRS business to fulfill its obligations under its agreements with these customers, unless these taxes, penalties or liabilities are attributable to the customer’s failure to comply with the terms of the agreement the customer has with our HRS business. These taxes, penalties and liabilities could, in some cases, be substantial and could adversely affect its business and operating results. Additionally, the failure of our HRS business to 17 Table of Contents fulfill its obligations under its customer agreements could adversely affect our reputation, its relationship with our customers and its ability to gain new customers. In addition, mistakes may occur in connection with this service. Our HRS business and its customers may be subject to penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings or underpayment of taxes. As a result of the services our Benefits operating unit provides, it may be subject to potential legal liability as a provider of portability compliance services. As a provider of COBRA compliance services, our Benefits operating unit is subject to excise taxes and penalties for noncompliance with provisions of COBRA. In addition to the excise tax and penalty liabilities that may be imposed on our Benefits operating unit, substantial excise taxes and penalties may be imposed under COBRA on our customers. In addition, as a provider of HIPAA compliance and administration services, our benefit services business may be subject to penalties under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”) for noncompliance with various provisions of HIPAA. As a result of work-life and employee assistance programs currently provided to the federal government, we are required to comply with applicable federal contracting regulations. Non-compliance with required reporting and performance activities subjects us to penalties and legal liabilities imposed by regulatory authorities. Litigation and governmental inquiries, investigations and proceedings may adversely affect our financial results. We may be adversely affected by judgments, settlements, unanticipated costs or other effects of legal and administrative proceedings now pending or that may be instituted in the future, or from investigations by regulatory bodies or administrative agencies, including the Commission. From time to time, we have had inquiries from regulatory bodies and administrative agencies relating to the operation of our business. It is our practice to cooperate with such inquiries. Such inquiries may result in various audits, reviews and investigations. An adverse outcome of any investigation by, or other inquiries from, such bodies or agencies could have a material adverse effect on us and result in the institution of administrative or civil proceedings, sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties, changes in personnel, and increased review and scrutiny of us by our customers, regulatory authorities, the media and others. We are also subject to claims and a number of judicial and administrative proceedings considered normal in the course of our current and past operations, including employment-related disputes, contract disputes, intellectual property disputes, government audits and proceedings, customer disputes and tort claims. Responding to such claims may be difficult and expensive, and we may not prevail. In some proceedings, the claimant seeks damages as well as other relief, which, if granted, would require expenditures on our part. There can be no certainty that we may not ultimately incur charges in excess of presently or established future financial accruals or insurance coverage, or that we would prevail. Whether we prevail or not, such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” in this report and Note 17, “Legal Matters” to our consolidated financial statements contained in Part II, Item 8 of this report. Our success is dependent on the retention and acquisition of talented people and the skills and abilities of our management team and key personnel. Our business depends on the efforts, abilities and expertise of our senior executives. These individuals are important to our success because they have been instrumental in setting our strategic direction, operating our business, identifying, recruiting and training key personnel and identifying business opportunities. The loss of one or more of these key individuals could impair our business and development until qualified replacements are found. We cannot assure you that these individuals could quickly be replaced with persons of equal experience and capabilities. Although we have employment agreements with certain of these individuals, we cannot prevent them from terminating their employment with us. Our ability to grow and provide our customers with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain motivated people with the skills to serve our customers. If we are unable to attract and retain talented employees, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. The markets we serve are highly competitive and may attract new competitors or cause current competitors to focus more on these markets, which could adversely affect our business. The markets for our businesses are highly competitive. We face a variety of competitors, and some of our competitors have greater financial resources than we have. In addition, new competitors could decide to enter the markets we serve or current competitors could decide to focus greater resources on these markets, which could intensify the highly competitive conditions that already exist. These new entrants and existing competitors could offer or introduce new technologies or a different service model, or could treat the services to be provided by one of our businesses as one component of a larger product or service offering. These developments could enable these new and existing competitors to offer similar products or services at reduced prices and/or increased service levels. Any of these or similar developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Our U.S. HRS business is subject to the risks associated with contracting with the government. Our U.S. HRS business provides certain services to various government agencies or parties, and, therefore, is exposed to risks associated with government contracting which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Although we generally seek multi-year contracts from the government, funds are generally appropriated on a fiscal year basis even though the contract may continue for several years. Consequently, government contracts are often only partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only with further appropriations. The termination of funding for a particular government contract would result in a loss of anticipated future revenue attributable to that program which could have a negative impact on our operations. Generally, government contracts contain provisions permitting the government to terminate the contract at its convenience, in whole or in part, without prior notice, and to provide for payment of compensation only for work done and commitments made at the time of termination. Though terminations for convenience are rarely issued, we cannot guarantee that any of our government contracts will not be terminated under these circumstances. As a result of contracting with the government, we may be subject to audits, cost reviews and investigations by contracting oversight agencies. During the course of an audit, the oversight agency may disallow costs. Such cost disallowances may result in adjustments to previously reported revenue. In addition, our failure to comply with the terms of one or more of our government contracts, other government agreements, or government regulations and statutes could result in our being suspended or barred from future government projects for a significant period of time and possible civil or criminal fines and penalties and the risk of public scrutiny of our performance which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We generally obtain government contracts through a competitive bidding process. We cannot provide assurance that we will win competitively awarded contracts or that such contracts will be profitable. In addition, if we fail to obtain a renewal or follow-on contract as to a particular government contract, there could be an adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, government contracts may be subject to protest or challenge by unsuccessful bidders or to termination, reduction or modification in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending or other factors beyond our control. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Approximately 28% of HRS revenue in 2008 was obtained from our international operations. Our Ceridian Canada operations provide certain HRS services for our Canadian customers, and our Ceridian U.K. subsidiary primarily provides certain HRS services in the United Kingdom. We are continuing to expand our international HRS business into other countries by engaging a partner within a country to provide us with payroll administration and processing services for that country. Comdata also has operations in Canada. SVS is also expanding its business internationally. Approximately 7% of SVS’s and less than 2% of Comdata’s revenues in 2008 were derived from customers outside of the United States. As such, our international operations are subject to risks that could adversely affect those operations or our business as a whole, including costs of customizing products and services for foreign customers; difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; difficulties with or inability to engage global partners; absence of certain intellectual property and other legal rights in some countries; longer sales and payment cycles; the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; exposure to legal jurisdictions that may not recognize or interpret customer contracts appropriately; exposure to local economic and political conditions; and changes in currency exchange rates. In addition, we anticipate that customers and potential customers may increasingly require and demand that a single vendor provide HRS solutions and services for their employees in a number of countries. If we are unable to provide the required services on a multinational basis, there may be a negative impact on our new orders and customer retention, which would negatively impact revenue and earnings. Although we have a multinational strategy, additional investment and efforts may be necessary to implement such strategy. Our business and results of operations are dependent on several vendors, suppliers and other third parties, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our business is dependent on a number of vendors, suppliers and other third-parties, the loss of any of whom could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In particular, Comdata’s current business relies upon its relationships with suppliers and other third-parties such as MasterCard, to effect and support transactions, including access to the Cirrus ATM network, the Maestro point-of-sale debit network and MasterCard’s credit network. The ability of Comdata to continue to provide some of its services in the manner in which it currently delivers them may be affected by actions taken by suppliers and other third-parties, including MasterCard. Any adverse change in Comdata’s relationship with these parties or Comdata’s inability to timely and effectively establish alternatives to these relationships could likely adversely affect Comdata’s business and results of operations and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations as well. 19 Table of Contents We are controlled by the Sponsors, whose interests may not be aligned with our other constituents. We are controlled by the Sponsors, which have the power to control our affairs and policies, including entering into mergers, sales of substantially all of our assets and other extraordinary transactions as well as decisions to issue shares, declare dividends, pay advisory fees and make other decisions. The interests of the Sponsors as our equity holders could conflict with the interests of the holders of our indebtedness and other constituencies in material respects. Furthermore, the Sponsors are in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us, as well as businesses that represent major customers of our businesses. The Sponsors may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and as a result, those acquisition opportunities may not be available to us. So long as the Sponsors continue to own a significant amount of our outstanding capital stock, they will continue to be able to strongly influence or effectively control our decisions. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 