ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information included in this Form 10-K in evaluating us and our business. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We may not be able to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes acquiring other distributors of roofing materials and complementary products. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: •Unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; •diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; •unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; •potential loss of key employees; •unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and • inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. 11 Table of Contents As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of these acquisitions, and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These risks may be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates, which would slow our growth rate. We continually seek additional acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with potential candidates. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates that we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete acquisitions that we identify, it is unlikely that we will sustain the historical growth rates of our business. An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. We distribute roofing and other exterior building materials that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong and that we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers should products be unavailable from current sources, any disruption in our sources of supply, particularly of the most commonly sold items, could result in a loss of revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production or delivery difficulties. When shortages occur, roofing material suppliers often allocate products among distributors. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our future success is highly dependent upon the services of Robert Buck, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Paul Isabella, President and Chief Operating Officer, and David Grace, Chief Financial Officer. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management personnel, including our regional vice presidents. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to execute our acquisition and internal growth strategies. A change in vendor rebates could adversely affect our income and gross margins. The terms on which we purchase product from many of our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, vendors may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the net recorded costs of product already purchased, it may lower our gross margins on products we sell or income we realize in future periods. Cyclicality in our business could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability. We sell a portion of our products for new residential and non-residential construction. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including credit availability, interest rates, employment levels, and consumer confidence. Downturns in the regions and markets we serve could result in lower revenues and, since many of our expenses are fixed, lower profitability. New housing starts declined during 2006 through 2009 and the pace may continue at the lower levels or decline further. Commercial construction activity, which was high in recent years until 2009, when it declined, could continue to decline as well. Tougher economic conditions, including tighter availability of commercial credit, 12 Table of Contents contributed to the 2009 decline in new commercial projects and, to a lesser extent, a decline in reroofing projects, and may continue to have a negative effect on current and future levels of construction, especially new non-residential construction. Seasonality in the construction and re-roofing industry generally results in second quarter losses. Our second quarter is typically adversely affected by winter construction cycles and weather patterns in colder climates as the level of activity in the new construction and re-roofing markets decreases. Because many of our expenses remain relatively fixed throughout the year, we generally record a loss during our second quarter. We expect that these seasonal variations will continue in the future. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, we could experience problems with inventory, collections, customer service, cost control and business plan execution. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the roofing distribution industry. If we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience, among other things, product shortages and/or an increase in accounts receivable. Any failure by us to properly maintain our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience delays in the execution of our business plan. An impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets could reduce net income. Acquisitions frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets. At September 30, 2009, goodwill represented approximately 34% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized for financial reporting purposes and is subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair-value based approach. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting units. Our accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. We determine the fair values of our reporting units by using both a market and discounted cash flow approach. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill for impairment in between our annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Any impairment of goodwill will reduce net income in the period in which the impairment is recognized. We might need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thus limiting our growth prospects. We may require additional equity or further debt financing in order to consummate an acquisition or for additional working capital for expansion or if we suffer losses. In the event additional equity or debt financing is unavailable to us, we may be unable to expand or make acquisitions and our stock price may decline as a result of the perception that we have more limited growth prospects. Further disruptions in the capital and credit markets may impact the availability of credit and business conditions. If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by the conditions of the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under those credit commitments, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and our ability to borrow funds, if needed, for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. 13 Table of Contents Continued market disruptions could cause broader economic downturns, which may lead to lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers' inability to pay their accounts. Further, bankruptcies or similar events by customers may cause us to incur bad debt expense at levels higher than historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted, causing disruption or delay of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 