Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. We may never successfully commercialize any of our technologies or become profitable. We have incurred losses since we were formed and have had only modest product and royalty fee revenues since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in August 2003. From our date of inception on February 10, 1995 through December 31, 2005, we have accumulated a total deficit of approximately $137.9 million. We expect that our losses will continue for at least the next several years and, depending upon our strategic direction, we may need to invest significant funds toward an FDA-approved test. Moreover, to build material demand for PreGen-Plus, we believe that substantial funds will likely need to be invested in sales and marketing efforts over the next several years. Given our current levels of cash and revenues, and without raising additional capital, we will not be able to spend the amounts that we believe will likely be necessary to fund these investments. If our revenue does not grow significantly, we will not be profitable. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the sale of any of our technologies will be sufficient to make us profitable. Our future revenues will depend, in large part, upon whether PreGen-Plus is broadly ordered by medical practitioners, is included within colorectal cancer screening guidelines, is approved for payment by 13 Medicare, is requested by patients, and is reimbursed by other third-party payors. We believe that the market demand for PreGen-Plus is dependent upon a number of factors, including the following: · the regulatory requirements for PreGen-Plus and the timing of any required regulatory filing and approval process; · whether LabCorp continues to offer PreGen-Plus commercially; · inclusion of stool-based DNA screening in colorectal cancer screening guidelines; · material investment in sales and marketing; · material investment in product development; · acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; · effective LabCorp sales and sales management personnel and processes to educate physician staffs regarding PreGen-Plus and patient compliance; · effective EXACT personnel to educate third-party payors, managed care organizations, and technology assessment groups regarding stool-based DNA screening; · patient acceptance of PreGen-Plus, including its novel sample collection process; · stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; · the impact that the publication of our multi-center and other study results and accompanying editorials in a peer-reviewed journal have on market acceptance of PreGen-Plus; and · the quality and service of the LabCorp testing process. Many of these factors are outside our control and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that one or more of the foregoing will occur in the near term, or at all. Failure to achieve one or more of the foregoing events could substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability and will negatively impact the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus. If we or LabCorp fail to comply with FDA requirements, we or LabCorp may be limited or prohibited in our ability to commercialize stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer and may be subject to stringent penalties. Since commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in August 2003, LabCorp has offered the PreGen-Plus testing service as an in-house developed laboratory test, or “homebrew”; a category of tests that has historically been treated as exempt from FDA premarket clearance or approval requirements. In light of recent communications between LabCorp and the FDA, however, the FDA has indicated that a premarket submission is necessary for PreGen-Plus as a medical device. On January 13, 2006, the FDA sent correspondence to LabCorp that focused primarily on Effipure but also more broadly on the PreGen-Plus test as a whole and indicated that PreGen-Plus is subject to FDA regulation as a medical device. The FDA also indicated that the device “cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate premarket determination from the FDA.” LabCorp is currently discussing this matter with the FDA with the goal of arriving at a regulatory and commercial solution that is acceptable to both the FDA and LabCorp. In connection with the FDA’s ongoing discussions with LabCorp, commercial sales of PreGen-Plus could be delayed, halted or prevented and enforcement action could be initiated which could involve criminal or civil penalties. In addition, the FDA’s position on this could negatively affect our operations either through regulation or new enforcement initiatives directed at LabCorp or EXACT. Further, the FDA may not approve of certain sales and marketing initiatives of EXACT, which could negatively affect our ability to build awareness around stool-based DNA testing. Moreover, any analyte specific reagent or general purpose laboratory equipment that we provide in connection with LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service will be subject to a number of FDA requirements, 14 including compliance with restrictions regarding performance claims as well as the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which establishes extensive regulations for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement action against us, our partners, or our contract manufacturers. Adverse FDA action in any of these areas, including, for example, requiring premarket approval or clearance for PreGen-Plus or Effipure, could cause material interruption in LabCorp’s ability to continue offering the PreGen-Plus testing service and could significantly increase our expenses and limit our revenue and profitability. Our ability to generate revenue depends on LabCorp’s commercial sales of PreGen-Plus. Our current operating revenue is dependent upon LabCorp’s commercial sales of PreGen-Plus. We cannot assure you that we or LabCorp will be successful in achieving sufficient sales of PreGen-Plus for us to become profitable, nor can we be certain that LabCorp, in light of FDA regulatory action, will keep PreGen-Plus on the market. If we or LabCorp are unsuccessful in our efforts to obtain FDA regulatory clearance or approval and increase awareness and sales of PreGen-Plus, our revenues will be limited and our ability to become profitable will be materially adversely affected. Moreover, given the number of products that LabCorp sells, we cannot assure you that LabCorp will devote the substantial level of resources and attention necessary to make PreGen-Plus commercially successful. Any failure of the LabCorp sales force or our sales and marketing employees, in whole or in part, to give continued and sustained focus to PreGen-Plus would harm the demand creation for PreGen-Plus and, in turn, could materially adversely effect our revenues and delay any performance-based payments for which we might otherwise be eligible, based on substantial sales volumes, under our strategic agreement with LabCorp. Any change in the senior management or organizational structure within LabCorp or EXACT Sciences, could also negatively impact our ability to successfully commercialize PreGen-Plus. Further, laboratory operating factors incurred at LabCorp such as turnaround times for the testing process, possible pre- and post-analytical sample and sample processing deficiencies and efforts to obtain third-party reimbursement all influence the rate of market adoption of PreGen-Plus. If LabCorp encounters difficulty performing PreGen-Plus tests on an accurate and timely basis or has difficulty obtaining reimbursement, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Future demand for the PreGen-Plus test may require LabCorp to further optimize operational and quality assurance processes to support commercial testing. No assurance can be given that such improvements will be successfully implemented by LabCorp, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our business is substantially dependent on the success of our strategic agreement with LabCorp. We have a strategic alliance with LabCorp, under which we licensed to LabCorp certain of our technologies that are required for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus. The license to LabCorp is exclusive within the United States and Canada for a five-year term followed by a non-exclusive license for the life of the underlying patents. LabCorp has the ability to terminate this agreement for, among other things, a material breach by us. If LabCorp were to terminate the agreement, fail to meet its obligations under the agreement or otherwise decrease its commitment to PreGen-Plus, our revenues would be materially adversely affected, the commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be interrupted and we could become insolvent. Further, we cannot guarantee that we would be able to enter into a similar agreement with another company to commercialize this technology. Moreover, if we do not achieve certain milestones, or LabCorp does not achieve certain revenue and performance thresholds within the time periods prescribed in the agreement, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of the agreement. In January 2004, we and LabCorp amended our license agreement to, among other things, restructure certain product development milestones. Although this amendment does not change the $45 million of total milestone payments that we may be eligible to receive under the agreement, the amendment makes it more difficult for us to fully realize these payments if LabCorp is unable to achieve significant revenue thresholds with respect to its sales of PreGen-Plus or if we are unable to obtain clinical guideline 15 acceptance and policy-level reimbursement approvals for PreGen-Plus. Moreover, we cannot assure you that this amendment or other strategic initiatives with LabCorp will accomplish the long-term goals of either party. If one or more additional amendments to our agreement with LabCorp become necessary as a result of the continuing evolution of PreGen-Plus, developments in our relationship with LabCorp or otherwise, we cannot assure you that any such amendment could be entered into on favorable terms, if at all. We cannot control whether LabCorp will devote sufficient resources to PreGen-Plus under our strategic agreement or whether it will elect to pursue the development or commercialization of newer versions of stool-based DNA testing or competing products or services. Disagreements with LabCorp could delay or terminate the continued commercialization of PreGen-Plus by LabCorp or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in managing our strategic relationship with LabCorp, we would be required to enter into other strategic relationships for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus or attempt to commercialize the testing service ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to license our technology to another commercial laboratory or otherwise successfully commercialize the testing service, and our failure to do either of the foregoing would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not issue positive policy decisions approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised. Many physicians may decide not to order colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies unless the tests are adequately reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare, and covered by managed care organizations. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of virtually any test incorporating new technology. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that tests using our technologies are: sensitive for colorectal cancer; not experimental or investigational; reliable, safe and effective, medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Currently, only a limited number of third-party payors have issued formal policy approving payment for stool-based DNA testing. Furthermore, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) have not yet approved stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer for payment, CMS has not yet accepted our request for a National Coverage Determination and CMS has sought additional information regarding the FDA regulatory status of PreGen-Plus, which has delayed our application’s acceptance. Neither we nor LabCorp has secured any broad-based policy-level reimbursement approval from Medicare or a sufficient amount of third-party payors to ensure the long-term commercial success of PreGen-Plus. For example, although PreGen-Plus received a favorable review from the California Technology Assessment Forum (CTAF), a unit of the Blue Shield of California Foundation, in March 2005, this review has not resulted in any policy-level reimbursement approval by Blue Shield of California. Moreover, several Blues’ plans across the country have declined to issue positive reimbursement policy for PreGen-Plus at this time. If we or LabCorp are unable to obtain a positive policy decision from CMS or other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised and our revenues would be significantly limited. 16 Our business would suffer if we, or LabCorp, are unable to license certain technologies or obtain raw materials and components or if certain of our licenses were terminated. LabCorp’s current configuration of PreGen-Plus requires access to certain technologies and supplies of raw materials, including elements relating to the Effipure microtiter plates, for which licensing and supply agreements are required. Similarly, the commercialization of Version II of our stool-based DNA screening technology will require that we or LabCorp license certain third-party intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, can obtain these technologies and raw materials on acceptable terms, if at all. Historically, we have managed the supply chain components for the development and sale of Effipure to LabCorp. LabCorp recently agreed to manage this supply chain itself and to source components necessary for Effipure directly from outside vendors or, if appropriate, to develop one or more of such components itself. While LabCorp has access to certain levels of inventory of Effipure, there can be no assurance that LabCorp will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable agreements with the third-party vendors in this supply chain, nor that LabCorp will be able to enter into such agreements at all. There also can be no assurance that existing Effipure inventory levels will be sufficient to support the processing of PreGen-Plus tests for the period of time necessary for LabCorp to establish the relationships necessary for the manufacture, supply, and assembly of Effipure components. Failure to transition this supply chain successfully could have a material adverse affect on the supply of raw materials necessary for LabCorp to perform the PreGen-Plus testing service which could interrupt the sale and delivery of the testing service and materially affect our revenues. In the event LabCorp is able to enter into these third-party agreements, any such licenses or supply agreements may require us or LabCorp to pay royalties or other fees to third parties, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues or gross margin. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any current contractual arrangements between us and third parties, us and LabCorp, LabCorp and vendors in the Effipure supply chain, or between our strategic partners and other third parties, will be continued, or not breached or terminated early, or that we or LabCorp will be able to enter into any future relationships necessary to the continued commercial sale of PreGen-Plus or necessary to our realization of material revenues. Any failure to obtain necessary technologies or raw materials for Effipure or the PreGen-Plus testing service overall would require PreGen-Plus to be re-configured which could interrupt the testing service entirely, negatively impact its commercial sale and increase the costs associated with PreGen-Plus, any one of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and gross margin, respectively. If our clinical studies do not prove the superiority, reliability, or effectiveness of stool-based DNA testing, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of guidelines writers to include stool-based DNA testing within screening guidelines as well as a reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests based on PreGen-Plus. If the results of our research and clinical studies do not convince third party payors, physicians, thought leaders and colorectal cancer screening guideline writers of the clinical value of PreGen-Plus, we and LabCorp may never successfully commercialize PreGen-Plus and, as a consequence, we may not be able to remain a viable business. In 2003, we completed our multi-center study of our prototype technology that included approximately 5,500 asymptomatic, average-risk patients aged 50 and older from over 80 academic and community-based medical practices. The goal of this study was to provide additional data supporting the superiority of tests utilizing our prototype technology versus the most widely used brand of FOBT, Hemoccult II®, in detecting colorectal cancer in this average-risk population. Although this study achieved its primary endpoint of showing that the prototype version of our technology was more sensitive than Hemoccult II, the point sensitivity from our multi-center study was lower than that seen in our previous research and clinical studies. Accordingly, we and LabCorp may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of third-party payors to pay for tests using our technologies which could slow the demand for LabCorp’s commercial PreGen-Plus testing service and adversely and materially impact revenues and profitability. 17 In October 2001, Mayo Clinic initiated a study of the prototype bead-based version of our technology that was intended to include approximately 4,000 patients at average risk for developing colorectal cancer. This three-year study was designed to compare the results of our prototype technology with those of the Hemoccult II, a common first-line colorectal cancer screening option. The Mayo study was principally powered for the detection of screen relevant neoplasia (a category that includes high grade dysplasia, invasive cancer, and adenomas ³1cm) rather than invasive cancers as a stand alone category. After this study commenced, Hemoccult Sensa®, another brand of FOBT, was added to the study. Subsequently, we and the Mayo Clinic sought to include the Effipure technology in the study to improve DNA yield, rather than relying solely on the prototype technology alone. In connection with this technology transition, Mayo Clinic reviewed preliminary data from the study which showed that, while our prototype technology was nearly twice as sensitive as Hemoccult II and as sensitive as Hemoccult Sensa in detecting screen-relevant neoplasia, Hemoccult II and Hemoccult Sensa appeared to have outperformed, at a preliminary stage, our prototype technology in the detection of cancer among the thirteen cancer samples collected in the study. We believe that the sample collection protocols used in this study, which were the same as those used in our multi-center study, resulted in DNA degradation that, in turn, resulted in lower sensitivity of our technology. Thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, payors and others may, despite the small sample size referenced above, assign significance to this preliminary data, especially if published by the NCI or Mayo Clinic, which may significantly adversely affect continued commercialization of the testing service. If the results of our research and clinical studies, including the results of the Mayo Clinic study (especially in contrast to the results of the 2003 multi-center study referenced above), do not convince thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, third party payors and patients that tests using our technologies are reliable, effective and/or superior to existing screening methods, including Hemoccult II and Hemoccult Sensa, or show that our technologies are superior but not by a large enough margin to affect prevailing clinical practice, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of screening guidelines writers to include stool-based DNA screening in such guidelines (including within the guidelines of the American Cancer Society, American College of Gastroenterology, and the American Gastroenterology Association) as well as a reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests using our technologies, which could slow the demand for, and successful commercialization of, PreGen-Plus. If PreGen-Plus cannot be effectively sold at a price acceptable to the market or acceptable to the writers of screening guidelines, the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be materially harmed. The success of PreGen-Plus depends, in material part, on the ability of LabCorp to price the test at a level acceptable to consumers, physicians, third-party payors, and the writers of colorectal cancer screening guidelines. Currently, screening for colorectal cancer using our technologies is more expensive than FOBT because it is labor-intensive and uses highly complex processes and expensive reagents. The price differential between stool-based DNA testing and FOBT, when compared with the performance differential between the two screening modalities, may be viewed as too significant to endorse stool-based DNA screening for guidelines inclusion. In order to make PreGen-Plus less costly and more commercially attractive to consumers, physicians, third party payors, and guidelines writers, LabCorp will need to reduce the costs of tests using our technologies through significant automation of key operational processes or other cost savings procedures. There can be no assurance that such parties, including Medicare, will pay for PreGen-Plus at levels that will enable us to earn a profit, if at all and there can be no assurance that stool-based DNA testing will be included within screening guidelines, regardless of the performance of the technology. If LabCorp fails to create and improve technologies that sufficiently reduce costs, LabCorp’s sales of PreGen-Plus and, as a result, our revenues may be limited. Moreover, if LabCorp is unable to sell a sufficient number of tests at favorable pricing levels, we will not be successful and we may not be able to remain viable as a company. 18 If the Effipure technology and our or LabCorp’s other technological advancements do not increase the performance of PreGen-Plus in a cost effective manner, the demand for PreGen-Plus may be negatively impacted We continue to work to improve the performance characteristics of stool-based DNA testing through research on technical innovations. However, there can be no assurance that future generations of PreGen-Plus, or the commercial version of the PreGen-Plus test currently offered by LabCorp will have sufficient sensitivity and specificity or performance to be commercially successful. There also can be no assurance that the sample handling protocols employed by LabCorp for PreGen-Plus are adequate to prevent DNA degradation and resulting negative impacts on test performance. We have conducted studies of fecal DNA testing that have included Effipure technology. These studies, which have consisted of cohorts from previously conducted clinical studies, including the multi-center study, have shown that fecal DNA testing that includes Effipure detected cancer in additional samples that the original bead-based version of fecal DNA testing did not. However, the number of samples in each of these studies has been small and the ranges of sensitivity improvement with Effipure have been broad, thus making it difficult to definitively quantify the increased sensitivity with Effipure, as compared to the prototype test. In a recent research study that we conducted, designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool, Version II of our stool-based DNA screening technology demonstrated sensitivity and specificity results in excess of 80% for detecting colorectal cancer.While previous published studies for fecal-DNA screening have generally shown specificity above 90%, the specificity results in the Version II study were closer to 80%, a performance metric that may not be deemed clinically or commercially acceptable. There can be no assurance that the overall performance characteristics, or that the design of the Version II research study, will be viewed favorably by thought-leaders, physicians, and consumers or that LabCorp will be able to achieve similar levels of performance in future versions of its PreGen-Plus testing service. The blinded study was designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool. This study involved the analysis of cancer samples from individuals whose colonoscopy results were positive for colorectal cancer. By contrast, our multi-center study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2004, was comprised of cancer samples from an asymptomatic population. There can be no assurance that the population from which the cancer samples were obtained for the Version II study will be viewed as sufficient to support clinical or market acceptance of the Version II research study results. In addition, the Version II research study has not yet been accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal and there can be no assurance that the Version II study will be accepted for publication by a peer-reviewed journal, or by a peer-reviewed journal of a caliber necessary to support clinical or market acceptance of the Version II study results. Additionally, if future generations of the PreGen-Plus test, or the commercial version of the PreGen-Plus test with Effipure or with DNA capture technology even more advanced than Effipure, do not demonstrate a sufficiently significant increase in the sensitivity or performance over that of the prototype technology in a cost effective manner, sufficient demand for our stool-based DNA screening technologies may never be realized or such demand could be significantly reduced, either of which would have a material adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, in connection with the FDA’s review of PreGen-Plus and Effipure, the FDA has indicated that a premarket submission is required for Effipure and PreGen-Plus. We cannot assure you that LabCorp’s use of Effipure and its marketing and sale of PreGen-Plus will not be delayed, halted or prevented. Additionally, the FDA may initiate enforcement action which could involve criminal or civil penalties, any of which would impair the commercialization of PreGen-Plus and materially harm our commercial prospects. If an insufficient number of medical practitioners order and reorder tests using our technologies, our revenue and profitability will be limited. If a sufficient number of medical practitioners are not convinced to order and reorder PreGen-Plus, we will not become profitable. An important element to the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus is the inclusion of stool-based DNA testing in colorectal cancer screening guidelines (the guidelines of the 19 American Cancer Society, the American College of Gastroenterology, and the American Gastroenterology Association). Gastroenterologists and primary care physicians will have to be made aware of the benefits of stool-based DNA testing through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences, favorable results from clinical studies and obtaining reimbursement from insurers. Our failure to be successful in these efforts or to be included within colorectal cancer screening guidelines would make it difficult to convince medical practitioners to order and reorder PreGen-Plus for their patients which would limit our revenues and materially adversely affect our business. We may experience limits on our revenue if only a small number of people decide to be screened for colorectal cancer using our technologies. Even if our technologies are superior to other colorectal cancer screening options, adequate third-party reimbursement is obtained and we convince medical practitioners to order tests using our technologies, only a small number of people may decide to be screened for colorectal cancer. Despite the availability of current colorectal cancer screening methods as well as the recommendations of the American Cancer Society that all Americans over the age of 50 be screened for colorectal cancer, a majority of these individuals do not complete a colorectal cancer screening test. If only a small portion of the recommended population is regularly screened for colorectal cancer or decides to utilize colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, we will, despite our efforts, experience limits on our revenue and our business would be materially harmed. We may be subject to substantial costs and liability or be prevented from licensing our technologies for cancer detection as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent rights. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our licensors, our licensees, our suppliers, our strategic partners, or us. We pursue a patent strategy that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the non-invasive early detection of colorectal cancer and is designed to maximize our patent protection against third parties in the U.S. and, potentially, in certain foreign countries. We have filed patent applications that we believe cover methods we have designed to help detect colorectal cancer and other cancers. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate actions against third parties. Any actions regarding patents could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business. Additionally, such actions could result in challenges to the validity or applicability of our patents. Because the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office maintains patent applications in secrecy until a patent application publishes or the patent is issued, others may have filed patent applications covering technology used by us or our partners. Additionally, there may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our technologies that may block or compete with our technologies. Even if third-party claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and may divert the attention of management and key personnel. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies, if any, awarded against us would not be substantial. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require that we, or our strategic partners, enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. These claims may also result in injunctions against the further development and commercial sale of PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, patents and applications owned by us may become the subject of interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, as well as a possible adverse decision as to the priority of invention of the patent or patent application involved. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application subject to such a proceeding. 20 If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property, which would impair our competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection as well as a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technologies and they will be able to compete more effectively against us. As of December 31, 2005, we have 37 issued patents and 20 pending patent applications in the United States and we also have 54 issued foreign patents and 58 pending foreign patent applications. We cannot assure you that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot assure you that other parties will not challenge any patents issued to us, or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. A third party has opposed one of our issued European patents relating to the enumerative analysis of nucleic acids in biological samples. A third-party institution is a co-owner of one of our issued patents relating to pooling patient samples in connection with our loss of heterozygosity detection method. We cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in defending challenges made in connection with our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in co-ownership of such patents with a third party or the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. In addition, we and a third-party institution have filed a joint patent application that is co-owned by us and that third-party institution relating to the use of various DNA markers, including one of our detection methods, to detect cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, bile duct, naso-pharyngeal, liver and gall bladder in stool under the Patent Cooperation Treaty. This patent application designates the United States, Japan, Europe and Canada. Co-ownership of a patent allows the co-owner to exercise all rights of ownership, including the right to use, transfer and license the rights protected by the applicable patent. In addition to our patents, we rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements and employees to sign agreements assigning to us all intellectual property arising from their work for us. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective in protecting our intellectual property rights. We cannot guarantee that the patents issued to us will be broad enough to provide any meaningful protection nor can we assure you that one of our competitors may not develop more effective technologies, designs or methods to test for colorectal cancer or any other common cancer without infringing our intellectual property rights or that one of our competitors might not design around our proprietary technologies. Other companies may develop and market novel or improved methods for detecting colorectal cancer, which may make our technologies less competitive, or even obsolete. The market for colorectal cancer screening is large, approximating 80 million Americans age 50 and above, of which over 42 million fail to follow the American Cancer Society’s screening guidelines. As a result, the colorectal cancer screening market has attracted competitors, some of which have significantly greater resources than we have. Currently, we face competition from procedure-based detection technologies such as flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and virtual colonoscopy, a new procedure being performed in which a radiologist views the inside of the colon through a scanner, as well as existing and possibly improved traditional screening tests such as immunochemical FOBT. In addition, some companies and institutions are developing serum-based tests, or screening tests based on the detection of proteins, nucleic acids or the presence of fragments of mutated genes in the blood that are produced by colon cancer. These and other companies may also be working on additional methods of detecting colon cancer that have not yet been announced. We may be unable to compete effectively against these competitors either because their test is superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources and stronger business relationships. 21 We rely on third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers and may experience a scarcity of raw materials and components. We rely on contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain components for our technologies. We believe that there are relatively few manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying commercial quantities of the raw materials and components necessary for certain elements used in LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service, including Effipure. Although we have identified suppliers that we believe are capable of supplying these raw materials and components in sufficient quantity today, there can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, will be able to enter into, maintain, or effectively transition these agreements and relationships with such suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. Historically, we have managed the supply chain components for the development and sale of Effipure to LabCorp. LabCorp recently agreed to manage this supply chain itself and to source components necessary for Effipure directly from outside vendors or, if appropriate, to develop one or more of such components itself. While LabCorp has access to certain levels of inventory of Effipure, there can be no assurance that LabCorp will be able to negotiate commercially acceptable agreements with the third-party vendors in this supply chain, nor that LabCorp will be able to enter into such agreements at all. There also can be no assurance that existing Effipure inventory levels will be sufficient to support the processing of PreGen-Plus tests for the period of time necessary for LabCorp to establish the relationships necessary for the manufacture, supply, and assembly of Effipure components. Furthermore, prior to August 2003, stool-based DNA testing had never been offered on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that the raw materials and components necessary to meet demand will be available in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we, or LabCorp, should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the necessary raw materials and components for LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service, LabCorp may need to reconfigure its PreGen-Plus testing service which would result in delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales and would materially adversely impact our revenues. If the Effipure technology is replaced in commercial use by new or improved technologies, existing Effipure inventories could become obsolete, which could require the write-off of existing inventory that would negatively impact our gross margins and profitability. We have historically purchased certain Effipure components from contract manufacturers pursuant to minimum purchase commitments. We carry Effipure components purchased pursuant to these minimum purchase commitments in our inventory until they are shipped to LabCorp for use in processing PreGen-Plus tests. During calendar 2004 and 2005, we purchased approximately $1.4 million in Effipure components under these purchase commitments. As of December 31, 2005, our future minimum purchase commitment in connection with Effipure contract manufacturers was approximately $0.7 million. If test volumes do not keep pace with Effipure inventory levels (the components of which have a finite useful life, after which time they must be discarded), or if Effipure is replaced in commercial use by LabCorp, we may need to make additional provisions for excess or obsolete inventory, which would have a negative impact on our gross margins and operating results. In addition, we have exited the supply chain management role associated with Effipure manufacture and LabCorp will now be responsible for the procurement and supply chain management of Effipure. The costs associated with any such transition could be significant and could include write downs of current inventory, costs to transfer on-hand inventory to LabCorp and costs associated with the transfer or cancellation of certain contracts in the current supply chain. If we or our partners fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to stringent penalties and our business may be materially adversely affected. The marketing and sale of PreGen-Plus is subject to various state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that we or our strategic partners will be able to comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines. If we or our partners fail to comply with any such applicable regulations and guidelines, we could incur significant liability or be forced to cease offering PreGen-Plus in certain jurisdictions. Also, conforming the marketing and sale of our products to any applicable regulations and guidelines could substantially increase our operating expenses. In addition, LabCorp and any other 22 laboratory that uses PreGen-Plus is subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is a federal law which regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the U.S. by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. If LabCorp were to lose its CLIA certification, it may no longer be able to offer PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments. Development of the existing commercialization strategy for PreGen-Plus has been based on existing healthcare policies. Changes in healthcare policy could substantially interrupt the sales of PreGen-Plus, increase costs, and divert management’s attention. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team, including Don M. Hardison, our President and Chief Executive Officer. Although Mr. Hardison has signed a non-disclosure and assignment of intellectual property agreement and a non-compete agreement, he has no employment agreement currently in place. We also have a severance agreement with Mr. Hardison that provides for twelve months severance under certain circumstances. The efforts of Mr. Hardison will be critical to us as we continue to pursue our business goals. Effective March 10, 2006, Anthony Shuber, our Chief Technology Officer, resigned from his employment and on March 13, 2006, we entered into a consulting agreement with Mr. Shuber. Pursuant to the consulting agreement, Mr. Shuber will serve as a member of our Scientific Advisory Board. Mr. Shuber will also continue to assist with various of our research initiatives for a period of up to twelve months. Payments under the consulting agreement will be equivalent to Mr. Shuber's current base salary as well as continued vesting of certain of Mr. Shuber’s stock options. Mr. Shuber has been critical to our research and development goals and technology improvements, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to pursue and effectively accomplish our research and development goals with Mr. Shuber in the status of consultant. If we were to lose Mr. Hardison, and with Mr. Shuber no longer serving as our Chief Technology Officer, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. Moreover, having founded our Company more than eleven years ago, Stanley Lapidus resigned as Chairman of the Board effective December 1, 2005, but continues as a director of the Company. As of January 20, 2006, Sally Crawford, a board member of EXACT since August 1999, and Chair of our Audit Committee, was elected to serve as Chairperson of the Board. If weare unable to attract the expertise necessary to develop and seek regulatory approval for an in vitro diagnostic kit, we may not be able to bring more advanced technologies to market Recently we announced research results on Version II of our stool-based DNA screening technology that was realized utilizing a marker panel comprised of only two markers. We may seek to configure this test as an in vitro diagnostic kit and seek regulatory approval with the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire the personnel necessary to develop this product, that we will have the clinical data necessary and sufficient to support an FDA filing, or that an FDA filing on such a product will ultimately be approved. If we cannot execute successfully in these areas, our introduction and commercialization of Version II of our technology may be delayed or may never occur. Moreover, transferring Version II from the laboratory to the commercial setting will require the negotiation and licensing of necessary third-party intellectual property as well as the likelihood of additional technical and clinical validations of the technology. There can be no assurance that such clinical or technical validations 23 will be consistent with the above research results, that the Version II technology will perform equally well in all patient populations and segments, or that such technical and clinical validations will support the commercial introduction of Version II. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the third-party intellectual property that is needed to commercially launch Version II can be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. If we lose the support of our key scientific collaborators, it may be difficult to establish tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which may limit our revenue growth and profitability. We have established relationships with leading scientists, including members of our scientific advisory board, and research and academic institutions, such as Mayo Clinic and John Hopkins University, that we believe are key to establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening. If our collaborators determine that colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies are not appropriate options for colorectal cancer screening, or superior to available colorectal cancer screening tests, or that alternative technologies would be more effective in the early detection of colorectal cancer, we would encounter significant difficulty establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which would limit our revenue growth and profitability. Our inability to apply our proprietary technologies successfully to detect other common cancers may limit our future revenue growth and profitability. While, to date, we have focused substantially all of our research and development efforts on colorectal cancer, we have used our technologies to detect cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach and gall bladder. In the future, we intend to evaluate and potentially extend our technology platform to the development of screening tests for these or other common cancers. To do so, we may need to overcome technological challenges to develop reliable screening tests for these cancers. There can be no assurance that our technologies will be capable of reliably detecting cancers, beyond colorectal cancer, with the sensitivity and specificity necessary to be clinically and commercially useful for such other cancers, or that we can develop such technologies at all. We may never realize any commercial benefit from our research and development activities. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our growth. If our capital resources become insufficient to meet future requirements, we will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. Our inability to raise capital would seriously harm our business and development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operations. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may have to restrict our operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into agreements on unattractive terms. Further, to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and increases in our insurance rates. The sale and use of products or services based on our technologies, or activities related to our research and clinical studies, could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect which resulted in the failure to detect the disease for which it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with 24 or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Certain provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may make it difficult for you to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders and advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ National Market under the symbol “EXAS.” Factors affecting our stock price may include: · FDA regulation of our or LabCorp’s products and services; · inclusion of stool DNA screening in colorectal cancer screening guidelines; · technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; · clinical trial results relating to the PreGen-Plus test, stool-based DNA testing in general, or technologies of our competitors; · stool DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; · reimbursement decisions by Medicare and other third party payors; · the establishment of collaborative partnerships; · health care legislation; · intellectual property disputes and other litigation; · additions or departures of key personnel; · the performance characteristics of our technologies; · general market conditions; · the rate of market acceptance of PreGen-Plus and · sales of our common stock or debt securities. Because we are a company with no significant operating revenue, you may consider any one of these factors to be material. 25 Our operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our share price. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: · demand by physicians and consumers for PreGen-Plus; · new technology introductions; · reimbursement acceptance success; · changes in our agreement with LabCorp; · the number and timing of milestones that we achieve may under collaborative agreements; · impairment of our intellectual property; · the level of our development activity conducted for, and our success in commercializing these developments and · the level of our spending on PreGen-Plus commercialization efforts, licensing and acquisition initiatives, clinical studies, and internal research and development. Variations in the timing of our future revenue and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, The NASDAQ National Market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 26 