Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and/or we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. We may never successfully commercialize any of our technologies or become profitable. We have incurred losses since we were formed and have had only modest product and royalty fee revenues since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in August 2003. From our date of inception on February 10, 1995 through December 31, 2008, we have accumulated a total deficit of approximately $172.5 million. We expect that our losses will continue for at least the next several years and we will be required to invest significant additional funds toward development of our colorectal cancer screening technology. Following the closing of our strategic transaction with Genzyme in January 2009, we have begun resuming our efforts to develop an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. As part of our product development efforts and ongoing evaluation of stool-based DNA capabilities and market needs, we are exploring the marker combinations and platform requirements necessary for optimal performance of our technology based on market need. Objectives around performance, throughput and cost are among the elements that will need to be met in the design and development of a commercial product based on our technology. In addition, to market a stool-based DNA cancer screening product for sales to commercial laboratories, we will be required to first obtain FDA clearance or approval of our technology. The FDA approval path for our colorectal cancer screening technology is likely to involve significant time as well as research, development and clinical study expenditures. Given our current levels of cash and revenues, and without raising additional capital, we will not be able to spend the amounts that we believe will likely be necessary to fund the commercialization of an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening which, if approved by the FDA, will likely require that we invest substantial amounts in sales and marketing. In addition, there can be no assurance that Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, or LabCorp, will invest sufficient amounts in sales and marketing activities for ColoSure or other future testing services based on our technologies to allow us to receive material revenues on sales of ColoSure. If our revenue does not grow significantly, we will not be profitable. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the sale of any of our technologies will be sufficient to make us profitable. Our future revenues will depend on our ability to successfully commercialize an FDA-approved product for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. Our future revenues will also depend, in part, 19 Table of Contents upon whether ColoSure or other testing services offered by LabCorp based on certain of our intellectual property are broadly ordered by medical practitioners and requested by patients. We believe that our ability to successfully commercialize our technologies may be affected by the following: •the regulatory requirements for our technology, and the timing of any required regulatory filing and approval process; •our ability to continue to fund our operations; •whether LabCorp continues to commercially offer ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our intellectual property; •our ability to develop a technology platform and approach that optimizes performance, cost, and throughput in a manner that can effectively build market demand for our technologies; •our ability to achieve performance outcomes through clinical studies that will support FDA clearance or approval that can be effective in marketing stool-based DNA screening and building market demand; •the absence of competitive non-invasive screening methods for colorectal cancer screening, including blood-based screening tests currently under development; •acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; •effective negotiation and contracting by us and LabCorp with Medicare and other third-party payors for coverage and reimbursement of stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer; •whether payors issue favorable coverage policy for stool-based DNA screening if it is included in the screening guidelines of one or more, but not all, of the major guidelines organizations including USPSTF recommendations for colorectal cancer screening; •effective and sufficient LabCorp sales and sales management personnel, processes and dedication of resources necessary to educate physician staffs regarding ColoSure and patient compliance; •effective EXACT personnel to educate third-party payors, managed care organizations, and technology assessment groups regarding stool-based DNA screening; •whether the lack of a screening interval recommendation by the American Cancer Society, or ACS, and the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, or MSTF-CRC, in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines issued on March 5, 2008 will limit physician ordering or third party reimbursement, including Medicare, of products based on our stool-based DNA intellectual property; •patient acceptance of ColoSure, including its novel sample collection process; •stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; and •the quality and service of the LabCorp testing process. Many of these factors are outside our control and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that one or more of the foregoing will occur in the near term, or at all. Failure to achieve one or more of the foregoing events could substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability and will negatively impact the successful commercialization of ColoSure or other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our intellectual property. 20 Table of Contents Our common stock may be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market, which could negatively impact the price of our common stock and our ability to access the capital markets. Our common stock is currently listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market. On March 6, 2009, we received notice from The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, or NASDAQ, that we were not in compliance with NASDAQ Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(3), or the Rule, which requires an issuer to maintain a minimum $35 million market value of its listed securities for continued listing on The NASDAQ Capital Market. NASDAQ also noted that we were not in compliance with either of the other alternatives for compliance with the Rule, which require minimum stockholders' equity of $2,500,000 or net income from continuing operations of $500,000 in the most recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years, respectively. We were provided a period of 90 calendar days, or until June 4, 2009, to regain compliance with the Rule by evidencing a market value of listed securities of at least $35 million for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. We are currently evaluating alternatives to resolve the listing deficiency. If the listing deficiency is not resolved by June 4, 2009, we may request a hearing before a NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel, or the Panel, to address this issue. Our common stock would remain listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market pending the issuance of a decision by the Panel following such hearing. If this request for continued listing is not granted, our common stock would be delisted from The NASDAQ Capital Market. We cannot assure you that we will be able to regain compliance with the Rule. On November 28, 2008, our common stock was moved from The NASDAQ Global Market to The NASDAQ Capital Market following a hearing process with the Panel as a result of our inability to maintain the minimum market value of listed securities required for continued listing on The NASDAQ Global Market. It is possible that the Panel may be less willing to grant us an extension to regain compliance as a result of our prior hearing process. The delisting of our common stock could significantly affect the ability of investors to trade our securities and could negatively affect the value and liquidity of our common stock. In addition, the delisting of our common stock could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital on terms acceptable to us, or at all. Delisting from NASDAQ could also have other negative results, including the potential loss of confidence by licensing partners, the loss of institutional investor interest and fewer business development opportunities. We will need additional capital to execute our business plan, and we may be unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms. Following the closing of our strategic transaction with Genzyme in January 2009, we have begun resuming our efforts to develop an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. As part of our product development efforts and ongoing evaluation of stool-based DNA capabilities and market needs, we are exploring the marker combinations and platform requirements necessary for optimal performance of our technology based on market need. Objectives around performance, throughput and cost are among the elements that will need to be met in the design and development of a commercial product based on our technology. We may determine to develop a product containing a Version 3 technology that includes BEAMing or digital PCR, we may use genetic markers that are different from those used currently or in the past, we may focus on increasing the performance of our existing Version 2 technology and/or we may determine that our existing Version 2 technology, or some modification of this technology, provides sufficient performance to enable reasonable market penetration for stool-based DNA for colorectal cancer detection. If we determine to include digital PCR or BEAMing technology in the product, we will need to conduct extensive additional development related to Version 3, which is currently in prototype stage. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the following: •the cost of developing and refining our technologies; 21 Table of Contents •the successful commercialization and sales growth of ColoSure, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our intellectual property; •a sustained level of interest and commitment by LabCorp in the commercialization of ColoSure; •the regulatory requirements for ColoSure, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our intellectual property, and the timing and costs associated with any required regulatory approval process; •acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; •our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic agreement with LabCorp; •a determination that additional studies surrounding our technologies are needed; •competitive threats from competing technologies such as blood, plasma, or serum-based screening tests for colorectal cancer; •stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; and •the scope of and progress made in our collaborations on the research and development of stool-based DNA detection activities. Although we believe we have sufficient capital to fund our operations for at least the next twelve months, we do not have sufficient capital to fully fund the commercial development of our stool-based DNA technology and related FDA submission and commercialization efforts. We do not expect that product royalty payments or milestone payments from LabCorp will materially supplement our liquidity position in the next twelve months, if at all. Since we have no current sources of material ongoing revenue, we believe that we will need to raise additional capital to complete the development, FDA submission for clearance or approval, and commercialization of our technologies, including an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. If we are unable to obtain sufficient additional funds to enable us to fund our operations through the completion of the development of such a test, the submission to the FDA for clearance or approval of the test, and commercialization of the test, our results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected and we may be required to delay such efforts and otherwise scale back our operations. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. Even if we successfully raise sufficient funds to continue our operations to fund the development, FDA submission, and commercialization of our technology, including an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening, we cannot assure you that our business will ever generate sufficient cash flow from operations to become profitable. If we or LabCorp fail to comply with FDA requirements, we or LabCorp may be limited or prohibited in our ability to commercialize stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer and may be subject to stringent penalties. Laboratories that make and perform certain types of laboratory-developed tests, currently known in the industry as LDT's, or historically known as homebrews, have generally not been required to submit premarket submissions to the FDA, including performance data on the test, for FDA review and 22 Table of Contents approval or clearance. Instead, the FDA exercised enforcement discretion, which allowed laboratories to commercially market their LDTs without obtaining FDA approval or clearance, although such laboratories were still required to comply with the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA, and its implementing regulations. We had believed, since LabCorp's commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in 2003, that PreGen-Plus met the requirements to qualify for FDA enforcement discretion as an LDT and that in-house testing utilizing certain of our technologies, and using any analyte specific reagent that we developed, did not require FDA approval or clearance. From August 2003 through June 2008 through, LabCorp offered the PreGen-Plus testing service as an LDT. On January 13, 2006, the FDA sent correspondence to us and to LabCorp with respect to the PreGen-Plus testing service, as well as the Effipure DNA-capture devices used in conjunction with the PreGen-Plus tests, which indicated that PreGen-Plus is subject to FDA regulation as a medical device. The FDA also indicated that the device cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate premarket determination from the FDA. Pursuant to our and LabCorp's subsequent discussions with the FDA to clarify the regulatory status of PreGen-Plus, we and LabCorp agreed, among other things, to revise promotional activities with respect to LabCorp's PreGen-Plus testing service. In addition, LabCorp offered to eliminate its use of Effipure in processing PreGen-Plus tests. Based on the actions outlined above, LabCorp continued to market and process the PreGen-Plus test as a laboratory developed test service until June 2008. On October 11, 2007, the FDA sent a warning letter to us with respect to the PreGen-Plus testing service, indicating that PreGen-Plus was a Class III medical device and that it could not be commercially distributed without an appropriate premarket approval or clearance from the FDA. Effective June 1, 2008, LabCorp stopped offering PreGen-Plus and indicated that it had discontinued its use of Effipure. In July 2008, LabCorp began offering a new single marker in-house laboratory developed test called ColoSure, which is based on certain of our intellectual property and that does not use components supplied by us. LabCorp has not obtained FDA clearance or approval, but rather, is marketing ColoSure as an LDT. There can be no assurance that the FDA will not take a similar position with respect to ColoSure as it did for PreGen-Plus, and conclude that ColoSure is a medical device requiring premarket clearance or approval . Similarly, there can be no assurance that LabCorp's offering of ColoSure falls within the category of LDT's over which the FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion. If the FDA deems ColoSure a medical device that requires FDA clearance or approval prior to marketing, LabCorp may be required to discontinue offering ColoSure and, under such circumstances, our business would likely be materially adversely affected. In April 2008, we began regulatory efforts toward FDA clearance for Version 2 of our technology, a two-marker version that we believe offers greater sensitivity and can be more cost-effective than our earlier, 23 marker Version 1 technology. In this regard, in April 2008, we submitted a pre-IDE request to the FDA for our Version 2 technology. The objective of the pre-IDE process was to seek concurrence from the FDA that a 510(k) submission followed by a de novo classification request is an appropriate regulatory path for our Version 2 technology and that the clinical and other studies proposed in our Version 2 pre-IDE submission would likely support such a de novo regulatory path. In July 2008, we received feedback from the FDA as to the clinical performance characteristics and the minimum number of average-risk colorectal cancer samples that likely would be required for validation of our two-marker Version 2 stool-based DNA technology for colorectal cancer screening. In addition, based on our discussions with the FDA, we believe that the de novo pathway would be the appropriate regulatory path for our Version 2 technology. FDA's feedback in response to a pre-IDE as to the pathway to market and data requirements is not legally binding on the agency, and they are free to alter their position at a later time. 23 Table of Contents Following the consummation of our strategic transaction with Genzyme in January 2009, we have begun resuming our efforts to develop an FDA-approved in vitro diagnostic test for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. As part of our product development efforts and ongoing evaluation of stool-based DNA capabilities and market needs, we are exploring the marker combinations and platform requirements necessary for optimal performance of our technology based on market need. Objectives around performance, throughput and cost are among the elements that will need to be met in the design and development of a commercial product based on our technology. We may seek to leverage our progress and discussions with the FDA around Version 2 of our technology to assist in determining the likely regulatory path forward for our testing product. The FDA may ultimately determine that a premarket approval application, or PMA, is the appropriate path to market with respect to a testing product containing our stool-based DNA technology instead of a de novo pathway. In addition, we will need to determine the appropriate number of colorectal cancer samples from patients that would be required by the FDA in support of any regulatory application for clearance or approval a testing product. We believe that the studies required in connection with any approval or clearance of our technology, regardless of whether the regulatory pathway is de novo classification or a PMA, will be material in cost and time-intensive. There can be no assurance that FDA will ultimately approve any de novo classification request or approve any PMA submitted by us in a timely manner or at all. Our current ability to generate revenue depends on LabCorp's commercial sales of ColoSure and future generations of our technologies. Other than the funds generated from our transaction with Genzyme in January 2009, all of our current operating revenue is dependent upon LabCorp's commercial sales of ColoSure. We cannot assure you that LabCorp will ever achieve sufficient sales of ColoSure or future generations of our stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening technology, for us to become profitable. If LabCorp is unsuccessful in increasing sales of ColoSure, our revenues will be limited and our ability to become profitable will be materially adversely affected. We cannot control whether LabCorp will devote sufficient resources to ColoSure under our strategic agreement. We also cannot control LabCorp's decisions regarding the launch, cessation, or modification of any colorectal cancer testing service that it may offer. Sales performance by LabCorp at historical levels with respect to its DNA-based colorectal cancer screening service and any future ongoing failure of the LabCorp sales force to give continued and sustained focus to ColoSure could harm the demand creation for our stool-based DNA screening technologies and, in turn, could materially adversely affect our revenues and delay any performance-based payments for which we might otherwise be eligible, based on substantial sales volumes, under our strategic agreement with LabCorp. Any change in the senior management or organizational structure within LabCorp could also negatively impact to the successful commercialization of ColoSure. Further, laboratory operating factors incurred at LabCorp such as turnaround times for the testing process, possible pre- and post-analytical sample and sample processing deficiencies and efforts to obtain third-party reimbursement all influence the rate of market adoption for our technologies. If LabCorp encounters difficulty performing ColoSure tests on an accurate and timely basis or has difficulty obtaining reimbursement, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Future demand for the ColoSure test may require LabCorp to further optimize operational and quality assurance processes or genetic marker combinations to support commercial testing. No assurance can be given that such improvements will be successfully implemented by LabCorp, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. 24 Table of Contents Our business is substantially dependent on the success of our strategic agreements with LabCorp and Genzyme. We have a strategic alliance with LabCorp, under which we licensed to LabCorp certain of our intellectual property, including improvements that are useful for stool-based DNA testing. If LabCorp were to terminate the agreement, fail to meet its obligations under the agreement, decide to stop processing ColoSure commercially, or otherwise decrease its commitment to ColoSure, our revenues would be materially adversely affected, the commercialization of ColoSure could be interrupted and we could become insolvent. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to enter into a similar agreement with another company to commercialize this technology. Moreover, if we do not achieve certain milestones, or if LabCorp does not achieve certain revenue and performance thresholds within the time periods prescribed in the agreement, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of the agreement. We and LabCorp have amended our strategic agreement four times to, among other things, effect various changes to the exclusivity terms, payment provisions, milestones and termination and other rights. To accomplish our long-term business objectives, we may be required to enter into additional amendments to our license agreement with LabCorp. We cannot assure you that any additional amendments could be entered into on terms favorable to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that our prior amendments or other strategic initiatives with LabCorp will accomplish the long-term goals of either party. Disagreements with LabCorp could delay or terminate LabCorp's continued commercialization of ColoSure or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if the LabCorp relationship terminates, we would be required to enter into other strategic relationships for the commercialization of a colorectal cancer screening service based on our intellectual property or attempt to commercialize a testing service or product ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to license our technology to another commercial laboratory or otherwise successfully commercialize the testing service, and our failure to do either of the foregoing would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. We have a collaboration agreement with Genzyme under which we have formed a joint advisory committee to assist both parties in the achievement of product development goals related to the intellectual property transferred in the January 2009 transaction and to assist us with our regulatory goals. If Genzyme were to terminate the agreement, fail to meet its obligations under the agreement or otherwise decrease its commitment to the collaboration, we may be delayed or otherwise materially harmed in our goal of developing product improvements and seeking and obtaining FDA clearance or approval for our stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening technology. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not issue positive policy decisions approving reimbursement for our stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening technology, the commercial success of ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our technologies would be compromised. Many physicians may decide not to order colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies if the tests are not adequately reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of tests incorporating new technology. Reimbursement of stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: sensitive for colorectal cancer; not experimental or investigational; approved by the major guidelines organizations; reliable, safe and effective; medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Although CIGNA, one of the nation's largest insurers, has included stool-based DNA screening among its covered benefits nationwide, no other third-party payors have issued a broad formal policy approving payment for stool-based DNA testing and we do not believe that current 25 Table of Contents reimbursement levels from insurers to LabCorp are at levels sufficient to result in material revenue to us. In addition, our application to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, for a National Coverage Determination, or NCD, CMS issued a Proposed Decision Memo for Screening DNA Stool Test for Colorectal Cancer (CAG-00144N) on January 30, 2008, stating its decision to not provide coverage for our Version 1 technology because the FDA has determined that our Version 1 technology required FDA premarket clearance. The proposed decision was finalized in a final decision memo, released by CMS on April 28, 2008. The proposed and final decision memoranda indicated that CMS would reconsider providing coverage for our technologies; however, such reconsideration would not take place until after the FDA clears or approves the version of our technology being considered for coverage by CMS. There can be no assurance that any version of our technology will be cleared or approved by the FDA. Even if cleared or approved by the FDA, there can be no assurance that CMS will reach a positive coverage decision regarding our request for an NCD for any version of our technologies. Moreover, even if CMS issues a positive coverage decision for any version of our stool-based DNA screening technology, such coverage may not provide adequate levels of reimbursement. Additionally, despite the fact that our technology is included in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and MSTF-CRC, the FDA warning letter may impact coverage decisions of private third-party payors in a similar manner to CMS' NCD, in that those payors may defer reimbursement policy decisions with respect to our technology until such time, if ever, that we obtain FDA clearance for our technologies. Moreover, at its February 2008 meeting, the CPT Editorial Panel of the American Medical Association considered a request from gastroenterology specialty physician organizations to create a category III code for a stool-based DNA test. While the CPT Editorial Panel decided to postpone discussion on the issue, the application can be reconsidered at any future meeting, unless it is withdrawn. The CPT Editorial Panel meets three times each year; the next two 2009 meetings are in June and October. Category III codes are temporary codes which are used to designate emerging technologies, services and procedures and are issued semi-annually, unlike Category I codes which are issued annually. Payors tend to not cover services with Category III codes because they consider "emerging" technologies to be an "investigational" service and are therefore not covered services. The creation of Category III code for our stool-based DNA technology could limit the number of payors that reimburse stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening which would materially limit our revenues and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. In addition, we believe there are 19 states in the U.S. with state laws mandating reimbursement for colorectal cancer screening tests by group health insurance plans chartered to operate in those states. The Employee Retirement Security Act (ERISA) exempts self-insured health plans from state mandated benefits. In addition, the federal employee health plans and the Medicare program are exempt from state mandates, as they are federally regulated. The state laws vary with regard to whether or not the mandate applies to the State Medicaid program and state employees. Despite the inclusion of our stool-based DNA technology for colorectal cancer screening in the ACS guidelines released in March 2008, we believe that group health insurance plans that may be subject to the state mandates have discretion not to cover certain tests included in the ACS guidelines, including our stool-based DNA screening technology, for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, lack of FDA clearance or approval. Accordingly, group health insurance plans operating in states with colorectal cancer screening mandates may decide not to reimburse for stool-based DNA tests for colorectal cancer. The United States Public Services Task Force, or USPSTF, a U.S. government-funded organization that reviews available peer-reviewed published studies in order to make an assessment of the benefits and risks of performing certain medical procedures, completed its 6-year update of its colorectal cancer screening guidelines in October 2008. At that time, the USPSTF, which can influence coverage 26 Table of Contents decisions by payors, including CMS, determined that the evidence is insufficient (USPSTF Grade: "I" Statement) to assess the benefits and harms of both stool-based DNA and CT colonography, or virtual colonoscopy, as screening modalities for colorectal cancer. No other score was given by the USPSTF to these two new tests added to the ACS and MSTF-CRC colorectal cancer screening guidelines. Many payors base their coverage decisions around colorectal cancer screening on the recommendations of the USPSTF. Accordingly, our future plans may include working to accumulate and publish in peer-reviewed journals additional performance data, and patient compliance and preference data, that will be useful to the USPTF, as well as to CMS, in conjunction with our request for reconsideration of our NCD application. We could incur significant time and costs to accumulate such additional data, which still may not yield positive results with the USPTF or CMS. Additionally, despite the fact that our technology is included in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and MSTF-CRC, the FDA warning letter may have a similar impact on private third party payors in that, like CMS, those payors may defer reimbursement policy decisions with respect to our technology until such time, if ever, as our technologies are cleared by the FDA. Finally, certain members of the MSTF-CRC may fail to separately support the position of the MSTF-CRC, which could have a detrimental effect on our commercial and reimbursement efforts related to stool-based DNA screening. The National Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, is a private, not-for-profit organization that, among other tasks, measures the performance of U.S. based health care plans. The performance measures quantified by the NCQA result in the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS. We believe that HEDIS measures could be a factor used by consumers and employers when selecting among alternative healthcare plans in which to enroll. If our stool-based DNA screening technology for colorectal cancer screening is not recognized by NCQA as a test that contributes to a health plan's score for the colorectal cancer screening measure, health plans may not reimburse for stool-based DNA testing. Despite being included in the recently updated colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and the MSTF-CRC, there can be no assurance that stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer will be adopted by the NCQA as a test that contributes to increasing the score of the HEDIS colorectal cancer screening measure. The NCQA is currently reviewing the colorectal cancer screening measure and made its proposed changes available for public comment February 17, 2009 through March 17, 2009. The NCQA has determined not to include stool-based DNA screening in the draft 2010 HEDIS measure that will be used to evaluate 2009 health plan performance (a retrospective measure that in 2010 "looks back" at 2009 performance). A final 2010 HEDIS measure will be issued sometime after the results of the public comment period are analyzed. Such exclusion could materially limit our ability to secure third-party reimbursement and as a result, materially limit our revenues. Neither we nor LabCorp have secured any broad-based policy-level reimbursement approval from Medicare or enough third-party payors at adequate levels to ensure the long-term commercial success of stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer. If we or LabCorp are unable to obtain a positive policy decision from CMS or other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, approving reimbursement for stool-based DNA testing services or products at adequate levels, the commercial success of stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer would be compromised and our revenues would be significantly limited. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Our common stock is listed on The NASDAQ Capital Market under the symbol "EXAS." Factors affecting our stock price may include: •FDA regulation of our or LabCorp's products and services; 27 Table of Contents •technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; •clinical trial results relating to the stool-based DNA testing in general, or technologies of our competitors; •stool DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; •reimbursement decisions by Medicare and other third party payors; •the establishment of collaborative partnerships; •health care legislation; •intellectual property disputes and other litigation; •additions or departures of key personnel; •the performance characteristics of our technologies; •general market conditions; •the rate of market acceptance of ColoSure; and •sales of our common stock or debt securities. Because we are a company with no significant operating revenue, you may consider any one of these factors to be material. In addition, the stock market in general, and The NASDAQ Capital Market and the market for life sciences companies in particular, have recently experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that may have been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of the listed companies. There have been dramatic fluctuations in the market prices of securities of biotechnology companies such as us. These price fluctuations may be rapid and severe and may leave investors little time to react. Broad market and industry factors may seriously harm the market price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Sharp drops in the market price of our common stock expose us to securities class-action litigation. Such litigation could result in substantial expenses and a diversion of management's attention and resources, which would seriously harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The lack of a recommended screening interval for stool-based DNA screening in the guidelines of the American Cancer Society and the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, as well as annual updates to such guidelines limiting technical versions of stool-based DNA screening, may limit the acceptance of our technologies among physicians and third-party payors, including Medicare. The inclusion of stool-based DNA screening in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and the MSTF-CRC, a consortium of several organizations including representatives of the American College of Gastroenterology, American Gastroenterological Association, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and American College of Physicians/Society of Internal Medicine, issued on March 5, 2008 did not specify any recommended screening interval. By contrast, the ACS and MSTF-CRC guidelines made specific interval recommendations for each of the other six other colorectal cancer screening modalities included in such guidelines. In addition, it is possible that the ACS, in connection with its future annual updates to the colorectal cancer screening guidelines, may recommend a screening interval that would prevent our technologies from being cost-effective or may limit broad inclusion of our technologies or particular versions of our technologies in the guidelines. Lack of a definitive screening interval recommendation, a future recommendation for a screening interval that is not cost-effective or any limitation on the inclusion of our technologies, including particular versions of our technology, in future guidelines may lead to reluctance on the part of doctors to order and reorder colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, which would limit our revenues and materially harm our business and financial results. Such events may also lead to a 28 Table of Contents reluctance by third-party payors, including Medicare, to provide adequate reimbursement for our technologies, if at all, which would also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. In addition, the ACS and MSTF-CRC guidelines indicated that new technologies and new technical versions of approved technologies need to detect a majority of colorectal cancers in a screening population to meet guidelines criteria. Neither we nor LabCorp have performed a stand-alone colorectal cancer screening study of LabCorp's ColoSure test and there can be no assurance that the guidelines groups will agree that existing studies using our Version 2 technology, and any related data supporting ColoSure, will meet the requirements set forth in the current ACS and MSTF-CRC guidelines for inclusion of such technologies in future guidelines of such organizations. If the guidelines groups indicate a lack of acceptance for these more advanced technologies, such action could have a materially adverse impact on our business. Our business would suffer if we, or LabCorp, are unable to license certain technologies or obtain raw materials and components or if certain of our licenses were terminated. LabCorp's current configuration of ColoSure requires access to certain technologies and supplies of raw materials, including rights to the Vimentin gene, for which licensing or supply agreements are required. We cannot assure you that LabCorp has proper licensing or supply agreements in place for such technologies and raw materials, including the sublicensing rights necessary from us for elements of its ColoSure testing service. In addition, any future commercialization of our stool-based DNA screening technology may require that we or LabCorp license certain third-party intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, can obtain these technologies and raw materials on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any current contractual arrangements between us and third parties, us and LabCorp, LabCorp and vendors in the supply chain, or between our strategic partners and other third parties, will be continued, or not breached or terminated early, or that we or LabCorp will be able to enter into any future relationships necessary to the continued commercial sale of ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our technologies, or necessary to our realization of material revenues. For example, we have an exclusive license from Case Western Reserve University, or Case Western, for the use of the Vimentin gene in the field of colorectal cancer testing, pursuant to which we are permitted to sublicense such rights to others, including LabCorp for use in Labcorp's ColoSure colorectal cancer testing service. If Case Western were to terminate this agreement as a result of a breach by us or otherwise, we would lose our ability to offer any test or testing service based on the Vimentin gene, including the right to develop an FDA-approved colorectal cancer screening product using the Vimentin gene, and LabCorp would be unable to continue offering ColoSure with Vimentin, either of which would materially harm our business. Any failure to obtain necessary technologies or raw materials could require ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our technologies to be re-configured which could halt such service or product entirely, negatively impact its commercial sale and increase the associated costs, any one of which could materially harm our business and adversely affect our future revenues. If our clinical studies do not prove the superiority, reliability, or effectiveness of stool-based DNA testing, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for, tests based on our technologies. If the results of our research and clinical studies, and LabCorp's sales and marketing activities relating to communication of these results, do not convince third-party payors, physicians and thought leaders of the clinical value of our stool-based DNA technologies, stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening may never be successfully commercialized and, as a consequence, we may not be able to remain a viable business. For instance, the point sensitivity from our 5,500 patient multi-center study of the bead-based method of Version 1 of our technology was lower than that seen in our previous 29 Table of Contents research and clinical studies. Moreover, in connection with a preliminary review of data from a study conducted by the Mayo Clinic of the bead-based method of Version 1, Hemoccult II and Hemoccult Sensa appeared to have outperformed, at a preliminary stage, our original Version 1 technology in the detection of cancer among the thirteen cancer samples collected in the study up to that point. We believe that the sample collection protocols used in this study, which were the same as those used in our multi-center study, resulted in DNA degradation that, in turn, resulted in lower sensitivity of our technology. Thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, payors and others may, despite the small sample size referenced above, assign significance to this preliminary data, which may significantly adversely affect continued commercialization of stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening. In addition, in a recent research study that we conducted, designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool, Version 2 of our stool-based DNA screening technology demonstrated sensitivity and specificity results of 83 percent and 82 percent, respectively, for detecting colorectal cancer. Previous published studies for stool-based DNA screening have generally shown specificity above 90 percent, and the specificity results of 82 percent may not be deemed clinically or commercially acceptable. There can be no assurance that the overall performance characteristics, or that the design of the Version 2 research study, will be viewed favorably by thought leaders, physicians, and consumers or that LabCorp will be able to achieve similar levels of performance if Version 2 is commercialized as part of its testing service. Moreover, this study involved the analysis of cancer samples from individuals whose colonoscopy results were positive for colorectal cancer. By contrast, our previous multi-center study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2004, was comprised of cancer samples from an asymptomatic population. Cancer samples derived from a purely asymptomatic, average risk population prior to colonoscopy are typically accorded greater clinical weight when considered by thought-leaders in evaluating study performance. There can be no assurance that the population from which the cancer samples were obtained for the Version 2 study will be viewed as sufficient to support clinical or market acceptance of the Version 2 research study results. If the results of our research and clinical studies do not convince thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, third-party payors and patients that tests using our technologies are reliable, effective and/or superior to existing screening methods, including Hemoccult II, Hemoccult Sensa and immunochemical fecal occult blood testing, or FOBT, or show that our technologies are superior but not by a large enough margin to affect prevailing clinical practice, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests using our technologies, which could slow the demand for ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our intellectual property. We expect to rely on third parties to conduct any future studies of our technologies that may be required by the FDA, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical or other studies that may be required to obtain clearance for our DNA-based colorectal screening technology with the FDA. Accordingly, we expect to rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct any such studies. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our study design. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our requirement to prepare, and ensure our compliance with, various procedures required under good clinical practices, even though third-party contract research organizations have prepared and are complying with their own, comparable procedures. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our studies may be 30 Table of Contents extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our technologies. If ColoSure or any other stool-based DNA testing services or products based on our intellectual property cannot be effectively sold at a price acceptable to the market, the successful commercialization of such services or products would be materially harmed. The success of ColoSure or other testing services based on our intellectual property depends, in material part, on the ability of the seller, whether us, LabCorp or a third party, to price the test at a level acceptable to consumers, physicians and third-party payors. Currently, screening for colorectal cancer using our technologies is more expensive than FOBT because it is labor-intensive and uses highly complex processes and expensive reagents. The price differential between stool-based DNA testing and FOBT, when compared with the performance differential between the two screening modalities, may be viewed as too significant to encourage payors to issue positive coverage policy and adequate reimbursement. To make stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our technologies less costly and more commercially attractive to consumers, physicians and third party payors, the providers will need to reduce the costs of tests using our technologies through significant automation of key operational processes or other cost savings procedures and obtain sufficiently strong reimbursement. There can be no assurance that such parties, including Medicare, will pay for such services or products at levels that will enable providers or us to earn a profit, if at all, regardless of the performance of the technology. For example, we believe that the amount currently being paid by CIGNA to LabCorp for ColoSure are not at levels sufficient for LabCorp to earn a profit on its sale of ColoSure. If LabCorp fails to create and improve technologies that sufficiently reduce costs, LabCorp's sales of ColoSure may be limited. As a result, our revenues may be limited. Moreover, if we or LabCorp are unable to sell a sufficient number of tests at favorable pricing levels, we will not be successful and we may not be able to remain viable as a company. If technological advancements do not increase the performance of ColoSure or other stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our technologies in a cost effective manner, the demand for such services or products may be negatively impacted. There can be no assurance that ColoSure or any future services or products based on our intellectual property will have sufficient performance to be commercially successful. There also can be no assurance that the sample handling protocols employed by LabCorp for ColoSure are adequate to prevent DNA degradation and resulting negative impacts on test performance. If future stool-based DNA testing services or products utilizing our intellectual property do not demonstrate a sufficiently significant increase in the sensitivity or performance over that of the original technology in a cost effective manner, sufficient demand for our stool-based DNA screening technologies may never be realized or such demand could be significantly reduced, either of which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues. If an insufficient number of medical practitioners order and reorder tests using our technologies, our revenue and profitability will be limited. If a sufficient number of medical practitioners are not convinced to order and reorder ColoSure or other stool-based DNA testing services or products based on our intellectual property, we will not become profitable. Although stool-based DNA testing has been included in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and MSTF-CRC, gastroenterologists and primary care physicians will still have to be made aware of the benefits of stool-based DNA testing through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences, favorable results from clinical studies and obtaining reimbursement from insurers. Our failure to be successful in these efforts would make it difficult to convince medical practitioners to order and reorder such services or products for their patients which would limit our revenues and materially adversely affect our business. 31 Table of Contents Other companies may develop and market novel or improved methods for detecting colorectal cancer, which may make our technologies less competitive, or even obsolete. The market for colorectal cancer screening is large, approximating 89 million Americans age 50 and above, of which we believe approximately one-half fail to strictly follow the ACS's screening guidelines for colorectal cancer. As a result, the colorectal cancer screening market has attracted competitors, some of which have significantly greater resources than we have. Currently, we face competition from procedure-based detection technologies such as flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and virtual colonoscopy, a procedure being performed in which a radiologist views the inside of the colon through a scanner, as well as from existing guaic-based FOBT, and improved screening tests such as immunochemical FOBT. In addition, some companies and institutions are developing serum-based tests, or screening tests based on the detection of proteins, nucleic acids or the presence of fragments of mutated genes in the blood that are produced by colon cancer. For example, it is our understanding that Epigenomics AG is currently conducting a large multi-center study to demonstrate the performance of its blood-based screening test for colorectal cancer. These and other companies may also be working on additional methods of detecting colon cancer that have not yet been announced. We may be unable to compete effectively against these competitors either because their test is superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources and stronger business relationships. We may experience limits on our revenue if only a small number of people decide to be screened for colorectal cancer using our technologies. Even if our technologies are superior to other colorectal cancer screening options, adequate third-party reimbursement is obtained and we convince medical practitioners to order tests using our technologies, only a small number of people may decide to be screened for colorectal cancer. Despite the availability of current colorectal cancer screening methods as well as the recommendations of the ACS that all Americans age 50 and above be screened for colorectal cancer, a majority of these individuals do not complete a colorectal cancer screening test. If only a small portion of the recommended population is regularly screened for colorectal cancer or decides to utilize colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, we will, despite our efforts, experience limits on our revenue and our business would be materially harmed. We may be subject to substantial costs and liability or be prevented from licensing our technologies for cancer detection as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent rights. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our licensors, our licensees, our suppliers, our strategic partners, or us. We pursue a patent strategy that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the non-invasive early detection of colorectal cancer and is designed to maximize our patent protection against third parties in the U.S. and, potentially, in certain foreign countries. We have filed patent applications that we believe cover methods we have designed to help detect colorectal cancer and other cancers. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate actions against third parties. Any actions regarding patents could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business. Additionally, such actions could result in challenges to the validity or applicability of our patents. Because the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office maintains patent applications in secrecy until a patent application publishes or the patent is issued, others may have filed patent applications covering technology used by us or our partners. Additionally, there may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our technologies that may block or compete with our technologies. Even if third-party claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and may divert the attention of management and key personnel. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies, if any, awarded against 32 Table of Contents us would not be substantial. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require that we, or our strategic partners, enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. These claims may also result in injunctions against the further development and commercial sale of services or products containing our technologies, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, patents and applications owned by us may become the subject of interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, as well as a possible adverse decision as to the priority of invention of the patent or patent application involved. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application subject to such a proceeding. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property, which would impair our competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection as well as a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technologies and they will be able to compete more effectively against us. As of December 31, 2008, we had 39 patents issued and 17 pending patent applications in the United States and, in foreign jurisdictions, 76 patents issued and 32 pending patent applications. Following our transaction with Genzyme, and as of January 27, 2009, we own 14 issued patents and 8 pending applications in the United States, and 43 issued patents and 17 pending patent applications in foreign jurisdictions. We cannot assure you that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot assure you that other parties will not challenge any patents issued to us, or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. We have in the past been the subject of opposition proceedings relating to our patents. In addition, one or more of our U.S. patents may be held as invalid if the inventorship is found to be incorrect, although correction is generally possible even after issuance of the patent. We cannot assure you that patent validity will not be challenged on the basis of incorrectly named inventors, nor can we assure you that a necessary correction could be made. We cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in defending challenges made in connection with our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in co-ownership of such patents with a third party or the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. In addition, we have jointly filed and jointly own, with a third-party institution, an issued U.S. patent, a pending U.S. continuation patent application and a PCT patent application that has been nationalized and is pending in Canada, Europe, and Japan, which patent applications relate to the use of various DNA markers, including one of our detection methods, to detect supracolonic aerodigestive cancers such as cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, bile duct, naso-oro-pharyngeal airways, liver, and/or gall bladder in stool samples. As joint owners of this patent and patent applications, both we and the third party institution have the rights provided to joint owners under applicable patent law, including the right to use, transfer, and license any issuing patent rights. In addition to our patents, we rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements and employees to sign agreements assigning to us all intellectual property arising from their work for us. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective in protecting our intellectual property rights. 33 Table of Contents We cannot guarantee that the patents issued to us will be broad enough to provide any meaningful protection nor can we assure you that one of our competitors may not develop more effective technologies, designs or methods to test for colorectal cancer or any other common cancer without infringing our intellectual property rights or that one of our competitors might not design around our proprietary technologies. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers and may experience a scarcity of raw materials and components. We have historically relied on contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain components for our technologies. We believe that there are relatively few manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying commercial quantities of the raw materials and components necessary for certain elements used in LabCorp's ColoSure testing service. Although we or LabCorp have identified suppliers that we believe are capable of supplying these raw materials and components in sufficient quantity today for our respective stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening activities, there can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, will be able to enter into or maintain these agreements and relationships with such suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, prior to August 2003, stool-based DNA testing had never been offered on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that the raw materials, laboratory personnel, space for processing tests and other components necessary to meet demand will be available in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms, if at all. If LabCorp should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the necessary raw materials and components for LabCorp's ColoSure testing service, LabCorp may need to reconfigure its ColoSure testing service which would result in delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales and would materially adversely impact our revenues. If we or our partners fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to stringent penalties and our business may be materially adversely affected. The marketing and sale of stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening services or products containing our technologies are subject to various state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that we or our strategic partners will be able to comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines. If we or our partners fail to comply with any such applicable regulations and guidelines, we could incur significant liability and/or our partners could be forced to cease offering such services or products in certain jurisdictions. In addition, LabCorp is subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is a federal law which regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the U.S. by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. If LabCorp were to lose its CLIA certification, it may no longer be able to offer ColoSure, which would have a material adverse affect on our business. Moreover, healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments. Development of the existing commercialization strategy for stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening has been based on existing healthcare policies. Changes in healthcare policy could substantially interrupt the sales of ColoSure, increase costs, and divert management's attention. For instance, based on the correspondence and discussions with the FDA during 2006, we believed that LabCorp's PreGen-Plus testing service was an LDT over which the FDA would exercise its enforcement discretion. In October 2007, we then received a warning letter from the FDA indicating that PreGen-Plus is a Class III medical device and that it cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate pre-market approval or clearance from the 34 Table of Contents FDA. We cannot predict what additional changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The success of our business and business strategy will be substantially dependent upon the efforts of our new senior management team. Our success will depend largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team. On March 18, 2009, Jeffrey R. Luber agreed to resign as our President and Chief Executive Officer, effective April 2, 2009, the date of the appointment of Kevin T. Conroy as our new President and Chief Executive Officer. Similarly, on March 18, 2009, Charles R. Carelli, Jr. agreed to resign as our Chief Financial Officer effective April 2, 2009, the date of the appointment of Maneesh Arora as our new Chief Financial Officer. Messrs. Conroy and Arora, who joined us in March 2009, are key additions to our senior management team and will be critical to directing and managing our growth and development in the future. Our success will be substantially dependent upon our new senior management team's ability to gain proficiency in leading our company, implement or adapt our corporate strategies and initiatives, and develop key professional relationships, including relationships with our key collaborators and business partners. The efforts of each of these persons will be critical to us as we continue to develop our technologies and work towards the commercialization of an FDA-approved product. If we were to lose either of these key employees, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our share price. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: •demand by physicians and consumers for ColoSure; •new technology introductions; •reimbursement acceptance success; •changes in our agreement with LabCorp; •the number and timing of milestones that we achieve may under collaborative agreements; •impairment of our intellectual property; •the level of our development activity conducted for, and our success in commercializing these developments; and •the level of our spending on commercialization efforts, licensing and acquisition initiatives, clinical studies, and internal research and development relating to our stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening technology. Variations in the timing of our future revenue and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, The NASDAQ Capital Market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. 35 Table of Contents If we lose the support of our key scientific collaborators, it may be difficult to establish tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which may limit our revenue growth and profitability. We have established relationships with leading scientists at important research and academic institutions, such as Mayo Clinic, The John Hopkins University and Case Western Reserve University, that we believe are key to establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening. If our collaborators determine that colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies are not appropriate options for colorectal cancer screening, or superior to available colorectal cancer screening tests, or that alternative technologies would be more effective in the early detection of colorectal cancer, we would encounter significant difficulty establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which would limit our revenue growth and profitability. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and increases in our insurance rates. The sale and use of products or services based on our technologies, or activities related to our research and clinical studies, could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect which resulted in the failure to detect the disease for which it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Certain provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may make it difficult for you to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders and advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 