Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information in this report. These are not the only risks and uncertainties that we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we do not currently know about or that we currently believe are immaterial may also harm our business operations. If any of these risks or uncertainties occurs, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Business If physicians and hospitals do not accept our products and services, or delay in deciding whether to purchase our products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. Our business model depends on our ability to sell our products and services. Acceptance of our products and services requires physicians and hospitals to adopt different behavior patterns and new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. We cannot assure you that physicians and hospitals will integrate our products and services into their workflow or that participants in the healthcare market will accept our products and services as a replacement for traditional methods of conducting healthcare transactions. Achieving market acceptance for our products and services will require substantial sales and marketing efforts and the expenditure of significant financial and other resources to create awareness and demand by participants in the healthcare industry. If we fail to achieve broad acceptance of our products and services by physicians, hospitals and other healthcare industry participants or if we fail to position our services as a preferred method for information management and pharmaceutical healthcare delivery, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we are unable to successfully integrate businesses we acquire, our ability to expand our product and service offerings and our customer base may be limited. In order to expand our product and service offerings and grow our business by reaching new customers, we may continue to acquire businesses that we believe are complementary. The successful integration of acquired businesses, including ECIN and A4, is critical to our success. Such acquisitions, including both the ECIN and A4 acquisitions, involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, services, products and personnel of the acquired company, the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns, entry into markets in which we have little or no direct prior experience, the potential loss of the acquired company’s key employees and our inability to maintain the goodwill of the acquired businesses. If we fail to successfully integrate acquired businesses or fail to implement our business strategies with respect to these acquisitions, we may not be able to achieve projected results or support the amount of consideration paid for such acquired businesses. The successful implementation of our acquisition strategy depends on our ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates, acquire companies on acceptable terms, integrate their operations and technology successfully with our own and maintain the goodwill of the acquired business. We are unable to predict whether or when any prospective acquisition candidate will become available or the likelihood that any acquisition will be completed. Moreover, in pursuing acquisition opportunities, we may compete for acquisition targets with other companies with similar growth strategies. Some of these competitors may be larger and have greater financial resources than we have. Competition for these acquisition targets could also result in increased prices of acquisition targets. Our business will be harmed if we are unable to enter into and maintain relationships with IDX customers. In 2001, we entered into a 10-year strategic alliance agreement with IDX pursuant to which we and IDX agreed to coordinate product development and align our respective marketing processes. Under this agreement, 9 Table of Contents IDX had granted us the exclusive right to market, sell, license and distribute ambulatory point-of-care and clinical EHR solutions to IDX customers. On January 4, 2006, IDX was acquired by GE and on January 18, 2006, we, IDX and GE amended and restated our strategic alliance agreement. Under this amended agreement, the exclusivity provisions of the original agreement were modified such that, in addition to our solutions, GE may market its Centricity electronic health record ambulatory solution to IDX customers. These exclusivity provisions expired on July 18, 2007 and IDX is no longer required to market our solutions to its customers. We have historically generated a significant portion of our bookings from IDX customers. If we are unable to compete effectively against the Centricity product or are otherwise unable to maintain sales to IDX customers at the levels we have historically experienced, our revenues may decrease and our results of operations may be significantly harmed. Under the amended agreement, we and IDX will continue to cooperate with respect to installation and implementation of one another’s products for common IDX and Allscripts customers and in the provision of customer support services to ensure that such products remain interoperable. If the amended agreement is terminated for any reason, or if IDX and GE were to fail to fulfill their obligations under the amended agreement, we would lose the benefits of the amended agreement, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also have a cross license and software maintenance agreement with IDX pursuant to which we granted IDX a non-exclusive, non-cancelable and non-terminable license to use, market and sublicense certain of our software combined with IDX products, and IDX granted us a non-exclusive, non-cancelable and non-terminable license to use, market and sublicense certain IDX software for use with our products. If the amended agreement is terminated, we will not have access to certain IDX software, harming our ability to integrate our services with IDX systems and provide real-time data synchronization. This may make our systems less desirable to IDX customers and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. It is difficult to predict the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our healthcare software solutions and physician education services. The duration of the sales cycle and implementation schedule for our healthcare software solutions and physician education services depends on a number of factors, including the nature and size of the potential customer and the extent of the commitment being made by the potential customer, which is difficult to predict. Our sales and marketing efforts with respect to hospitals and large healthcare organizations generally involve a lengthy sales cycle due to these organizations’ complex decision-making processes. Additionally, in light of increased government involvement in healthcare, and related changes in the operating environment for healthcare organizations, our current and potential customers may react by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our services. If potential customers take longer than we expect to decide whether to purchase our solutions, our selling expenses could increase and our revenues could decrease, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If customers take longer than we expect to implement our solutions, our recognition of related revenue would be delayed, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. Our ability to provide high-quality services to our clients depends in large part upon our employees’ experience and expertise. We must attract and retain highly qualified personnel with a deep understanding of the healthcare and healthcare information technology industries. We compete with a number of companies for experienced personnel and many of these companies, including clients and competitors, have greater resources than we have and may be able to offer more attractive terms of employment. In addition, we invest significant time and expense in training our employees, which increases their value to clients and competitors who may seek to recruit them and increases the costs of replacing them. If we fail to retain our employees, the quality of our services could diminish and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 10 Table of Contents If we lose the services of our key personnel, we may be unable to replace them, and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our success largely depends on the continued skills, experience, efforts and policies of our management and other key personnel and our ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees. In particular, the services of Glen E. Tullman, our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are integral to the execution of our business strategy. If one or more of our key employees leaves our employment, we will have to find a replacement with the combination of skills and attributes necessary to execute our strategy. Because competition for skilled employees is intense, and the process of finding qualified individuals can be lengthy and expensive, we believe that the loss of the services of key personnel could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot assure you that we will continue to retain such personnel. We do not maintain keyman insurance for any of our key employees. If we are unable to successfully introduce new products or services or fail to keep pace with advances in technology, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The successful implementation of our business model depends on our ability to adapt to evolving technologies and industry standards and introduce new products and services. We cannot assure you that we will be able to introduce new products on schedule, or at all, or that such products will achieve market acceptance. Moreover, competitors may develop competitive products that could adversely affect our results of operations. A failure by us to introduce planned products or other new products or to introduce these products on schedule could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we cannot adapt to changing technologies, our products and services may become obsolete, and our business could suffer. Because the Internet and healthcare information markets are characterized by rapid technological change, we may be unable to anticipate changes in our current and potential customers’ requirements that could make our existing technology obsolete. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to continue to enhance our existing products and services, develop new technology that addresses the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers, license leading technologies and respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a timely and cost-effective basis. The development of our proprietary technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may not be successful in using new technologies effectively or adapting our proprietary technology to evolving customer requirements or emerging industry standards, and, as a result, our business could suffer. Our business depends in part on and will continue to depend in part on our ability to establish and maintain additional strategic relationships. To be successful, we must continue to maintain our existing strategic relationships and establish additional strategic relationships with leaders in a number of healthcare and healthcare information technology industry segments. This is critical to our success because we believe that these relationships contribute towards our ability to: • extend the reach of our products and services to a larger number of physicians and hospitals and to other participants in the healthcare industry; • develop and deploy new products and services; • further enhance the Allscripts brand; and • generate additional revenue and cash flows. 11 Table of Contents Entering into strategic relationships is complicated because strategic partners may decide to compete with us in some or all of our markets. In addition, we may not be able to maintain or establish relationships with key participants in the healthcare industry if we conduct business with their competitors. We depend, in part, on our strategic partners’ ability to generate increased acceptance and use of our products and services. If we lose any of these strategic relationships or fail to establish additional relationships, or if our strategic relationships fail to benefit us as expected, we may not be able to execute our business plan, and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of indebtedness and increased amortization expense. Future acquisitions may result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. In addition, future acquisitions may result in the incurrence of debt, the assumption of known and unknown liabilities, the write off of software development costs and the amortization of expenses related to intangible assets, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We have taken, and, if an impairment occurs, could take, charges against earnings in connection with acquisitions. If our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, our business could suffer. Complex software such as ours often contains undetected defects or errors. It is possible that such errors may be found after introduction of new software or enhancements to existing software. We continually introduce new solutions and enhancements to our solutions, and, despite testing by us, it is possible that errors might occur in our software. If we detect any errors before we introduce a solution, we might have to delay deployment for an extended period of time while we address the problem. If we do not discover software errors that affect our new or current solutions or enhancements until after they are deployed, we would need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. Errors in our software could result in: • harm to our reputation; • lost sales; • delays in commercial release; • product liability claims; • delays in or loss of market acceptance of our solutions; • license terminations or renegotiations; and • unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. Furthermore, our customers might use our software together with products from other companies. As a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. Even when our software does not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our solution development efforts, impact our reputation and cause significant customer relations problems. Our future success depends upon our ability to grow, and if we are unable to manage our growth effectively, we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. We will need to expand our operations if we successfully achieve market acceptance for our products and services. We cannot be certain that our systems, procedures, controls and existing space will be adequate to support expansion of our operations. Our future operating results will depend on the ability of our officers and key employees to manage changing business conditions and to implement and improve our technical, 12 Table of Contents administrative, financial control and reporting systems. We may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to accommodate these increases. Difficulties in managing any future growth could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations because we may incur unexpected expenses and be unable to meet our customers’ requirements. Our failure to compete successfully could cause our revenue or market share to decline. The market for our products and services is fragmented, intensely competitive and is characterized by rapidly evolving industry standards, technology and user needs and the frequent introduction of new products and services. Some of our competitors may be more established, benefit from greater name recognition and have substantially greater financial, technical and marketing resources than us. Moreover, we expect that competition will continue to increase as a result of consolidation in both the information technology and healthcare industries. If one or more of our competitors or potential competitors were to merge or partner with one of our competitors, the change in the competitive landscape could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively. We compete on the basis of several factors, including: • breadth and depth of services; • reputation; • reliability, accuracy and security; • client service; • price; and • industry expertise and experience. Our clinical solutions business unit’s principal competitors include Athenahealth Inc., Cerner Corporation, eClinicalWorks Inc., Eclipsys Corp. Epic Systems Corporation, GE, iMedica Corporation, McKesson Corporation, Misys Healthcare Systems, Picis, Inc., Quality Systems, Inc., Sage Software, Inc., The Trizetto Group, Inc., and Wellsoft Corporation. Our key competitors in the EDIS market include MedHost, Meditech, Picis and WellSoft. In the care management market, primary competitors include eDischarge, Maxsys Ltd., Meditech, Midas+ and ProviderLink. Our physicians interactive business unit’s principal competitors include Aptilon Inc., Dendrite International, Inc., Lathian Systems, Inc., Quintiles Transnational Corp. Ventiv Health, Inc. and WebMD Corporation. We also face competition from clinical information and education providers, such as disease state management companies, full service e-marketing companies, companies who provide electronic detailing software, and the in-house efforts of our clients, including health plans, pharmacy benefit managers, and pharmaceutical companies. Our medication services business unit’s principal competitors include Cardinal Health, Inc., Dispensing Solutions, Inc. DRx (a wholly owned subsidiary of Purkinje, Inc.), McKesson Corporation, PD-Rx Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pharmapac, Physicians Total Care, Inc., Southwood Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and various other regional distributors. We also face competition from providers of other medication repackaging service and bulk pharmaceutical distributors. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current and future competitors or that the competitive pressures that we face will not materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business depends on our intellectual property rights, and if we are unable to protect them, our competitive position may suffer. Our business plan is predicated on our proprietary systems and technology and physician education products. Accordingly, protecting our intellectual property rights is critical to our continued success and our ability to maintain our competitive position. We protect our proprietary rights through a combination of 13 Table of Contents trademark, trade secret and copyright law, confidentiality agreements and technical measures. We generally do not have any patents on our technology. We generally enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees and consultants and limit access to our trade secrets and technology. We cannot assure you that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology. Misappropriation of our intellectual property would have an adverse effect on our competitive position. In addition, we may have to engage in litigation in the future to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights or to defend against claims of invalidity, and we may incur substantial costs and the diversion of management’s time and attention as a result. If we are deemed to infringe on the proprietary rights of third parties, we could incur unanticipated expense and be prevented from providing our products and services. We are and may continue to be subject to intellectual property infringement claims as the number of our competitors grows and our applications’ functionality overlaps with competitive products. We do not believe that we have infringed or are infringing on any proprietary rights of third parties. However, claims are occasionally asserted against us, and we cannot assure you that infringement claims will not be asserted against us in the future. Also, we cannot assure you that any such claims will be unsuccessful. We could incur substantial costs and diversion of management resources defending any infringement claims. Furthermore, a party making a claim against us could secure a judgment awarding substantial damages, as well as injunctive or other equitable relief that could effectively block our ability to provide products or services. In addition, we cannot assure you that licenses for any intellectual property of third parties that might be required for our products or services will be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Factors beyond our control could cause interruptions in our operations, which would adversely affect our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations. To succeed, we must be able to operate our systems without interruption. Certain of our communications and information services are provided through our third-party service providers. Our operations are vulnerable to interruption by damage from a variety of sources, many of which are not within our control, including without limitation: (1) power loss and telecommunications failures; (2) software and hardware errors, failures or crashes; (3) computer viruses and similar disruptive problems; and (4) fire, flood and other natural disasters. Any significant interruptions in our services would damage our reputation in the marketplace and have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be liable for use of data we provide. We provide data for use by healthcare providers in treating patients. Third-party contractors provide us with most of this data. If this data is incorrect or incomplete, adverse consequences, including death, may occur and give rise to product liability and other claims against us. In addition, certain of our solutions provide applications that relate to patient clinical information, and a court or government agency may take the position that our delivery of health information directly, including through licensed practitioners, or delivery of information by a third party site that a consumer accesses through our websites, exposes us to personal injury liability, or other liability for wrongful delivery or handling of healthcare services or erroneous health information. While we maintain product liability insurance coverage in an amount that we believe is sufficient for our business, we cannot assure you that this coverage will prove to be adequate or will continue to be available on acceptable terms, if at all. A claim brought against us that is uninsured or under-insured could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Even unsuccessful claims could result in substantial costs and diversion of management resources. If our security is breached, we could be subject to liability, and customers could be deterred from using our services. The difficulty of securely transmitting confidential information over the Internet has been a significant barrier to engaging in sensitive communications over the Internet. Our business relies on using the Internet to 14 Table of Contents transmit confidential information. We believe that any well-publicized compromise of Internet security may deter people from using the Internet for these purposes and from using our system to conduct transactions that involve transmitting confidential healthcare information. It is also possible that third parties could penetrate our network security or otherwise misappropriate patient information and other data. If this happens, our operations could be interrupted, and we could be subject to possible liability and regulatory action. We may need to devote significant financial and other resources to protect against security breaches or to alleviate problems caused by breaches. We could face financial loss, litigation and other liabilities to the extent that our activities or the activities of third-party contractors involve the storage and transmission of confidential information like patient records or credit information. If we are unable to obtain additional financing for our future needs, our ability to respond to competitive pressures may be impaired and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We cannot be certain that additional financing will be available to us on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate financing is not available or is not available on acceptable terms, our ability to fund our expansion, take advantage of potential acquisition opportunities, develop or enhance services or products, or respond to competitive pressures would be significantly limited. If our content and service providers fail to perform adequately, our reputation in the marketplace and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. We depend on independent content and service providers for many of the benefits we provide through our clinical software and our physician education applications and services, including the maintenance of managed care pharmacy guidelines, drug interaction reviews and the routing of transaction data to third-party payers. If our services are interrupted as a result of any problems with our providers, our reputation in the marketplace could be damaged, which would have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may have no means of replacing content or services on a timely basis or at all if they are inadequate or in the event of a service interruption or failure. We also rely on independent content providers for the majority of the clinical, educational and other healthcare information that we provide. In addition, we depend on our content providers to deliver high quality content from reliable sources and to continually upgrade their content in response to demand and evolving healthcare industry trends. If these parties fail to develop and maintain high quality, attractive content, the value of our brand and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be impaired. If we are forced to reduce our prices, our business, financial condition and results of operations could suffer. We may be subject to pricing pressures with respect to our future sales arising from various sources, including practices of managed care organizations, Internet pharmacies, including those operating in Canada and other countries outside the United States, and government action affecting pharmaceutical reimbursement under Medicare. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship are affected by changes in regulations and limitations in governmental spending for Medicare and Medicaid programs. Recent government actions could limit government spending for the Medicare and Medicaid programs, limit payments to hospitals and other providers and increase emphasis on competition and other programs that potentially could have an adverse effect on our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. If our pricing experiences significant downward pressure, our business will be less profitable and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, because cash from sales funds some of our working capital requirements, reduced profitability could require us to raise additional capital sooner than we would otherwise need. 15 Table of Contents If we are unable to maintain existing relationships and create new relationships with managed care payers, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. We rely on managed care organizations to reimburse our physician customers for prescription medications dispensed in their offices. While many of the leading managed care payers and pharmacy benefit managers currently reimburse our physicians for in-office dispensing, none of these payers is under a long-term obligation to do so. If we are unable to increase the number of managed care payers that reimburse for in-office dispensing, or if some or all of the payers who currently reimburse physicians decline to do so in the future, utilization of our products and services would decrease and, therefore, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. If we incur costs exceeding our insurance coverage in lawsuits pending against us or that are brought against us in the future, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are a defendant in lawsuits arising in the ordinary course of business. In the event we are found liable in any lawsuits filed against us, and if our insurance coverage were inadequate to satisfy these liabilities, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our principal supplier of medications fails or is unable to perform its contract with us, we may be unable to meet our commitments to our customers. We currently purchase a majority of the medications that we repackage from AmerisourceBergen. If we do not meet certain minimum purchasing requirements, AmerisourceBergen may increase the prices that we pay under this agreement, in which case we would have the option to terminate the agreement. Although we believe that there are a number of other sources of supply of medications, if AmerisourceBergen fails or is unable to perform under our agreement, particularly at certain critical times during the year, we may be unable to meet our commitments to our customers, and our relationships with our customers could suffer. Our failure to license and integrate third-party technologies could harm our business. We depend upon licenses for some of the technology used in our solutions from third-party vendors, including Microsoft, and intend to continue licensing technologies from third parties. These technologies might not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Most of these licenses can be renewed only by mutual consent and may be terminated if we breach the terms of the license and fail to cure the breach within a specified period of time. Our inability to obtain any of these licenses could delay development until equivalent technology can be identified, licensed and integrated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Most of our third-party licenses are non-exclusive and our competitors may obtain the right to use any of the technology covered by these licenses and use the technology to compete directly with us. Our use of third-party technologies exposes us to increased risks, including, but not limited to, risks associated with the integration of new technology into our solutions, the diversion of our resources from development of our own proprietary technology and our inability to generate revenue from licensed technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. In addition, if our vendors choose to discontinue support of the licensed technology in the future or are unsuccessful in their continued research and development efforts, we might not be able to modify or adapt our own solutions. 16 Table of Contents If we do not maintain and expand our business with our existing customers, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business model depends on the success of our efforts to sell additional products and services to our existing customers. For example, certain of our clinical solutions business unit customers initially purchase one or a limited number of our modules. These customers might choose not to expand their use of or purchase additional modules. In addition, as we deploy new applications and features for our existing solutions or introduce new solutions and services, our current customers could choose not to purchase these new offerings. If we fail to generate additional business from our current customers, our revenue could grow at a slower rate or even decrease. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to a number of existing laws, regulations and industry initiatives, non-compliance with certain of which could shut down our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and we are susceptible to a changing regulatory environment. As a participant in the healthcare industry, our operations and relationships, and those of our customers, are regulated by a number of federal, state and local governmental entities. The impact of this on us is direct, to the extent we are ourselves subject to these laws and regulations, and is also indirect in that, in a number of situations, even though we may not be directly regulated by specific healthcare laws and regulations, our products must be capable of being used by our customers in a manner that complies with those laws and regulations. Inability of our customers to do so could affect the marketability of our products or our compliance with our customer contracts, or even expose us to direct liability on a theory that we had assisted our customers in a violation of healthcare laws or regulations. Because our business relationships with physicians are unique, and the healthcare technology industry as a whole is relatively young, the application of many state and federal regulations to our business operations and to our customers is uncertain. Indeed, there are federal and state fraud and abuse laws, including anti-kickback laws and limitations on physician referrals, and laws related to off-label promotion of prescription drugs that may be directly or indirectly applicable to our operations and relationships or the business practices of our customers. It is possible that a review of our business practices or those of our customers by courts or regulatory authorities could result in a determination that could adversely affect us. In addition, the healthcare regulatory environment may change in a way that restricts our existing operations or our growth. The healthcare industry is expected to continue to undergo significant changes for the foreseeable future, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We cannot predict the effect of possible future legislation and regulation. Specific risks include, but are not limited to, risks relating to: • Patient Information. As part of the operation of our business, our customers provide to us patient-identifiable medical information related to the prescription drugs that they prescribe and other aspects of patient treatment. Government and industry legislation and rulemaking, especially the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), and standards and requirements published by industry groups such as the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, require the use of standard transactions, standard identifiers, security and other standards and requirements for the transmission of certain electronic health information. National standards and procedures under HIPAA include the “Standards for Electronic Transactions and Code Sets” (the Transaction Standards); the “Security Standards” (the Security Standards); and the “Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information” (the Privacy Standards). The Transaction Standards require the use of specified data coding, formatting and content in all specified “Health Care Transactions” conducted electronically. The Security Standards require the adoption of specified types of security for healthcare information. The Privacy Standards grant a number of rights to individuals as to their identifiable confidential medical information (called Protected Health Information) and restrict the use and disclosure of Protected Health Information by Covered Entities, defined as “health care providers, health 17 Table of Contents care payers, and health care clearinghouses.” Generally, the HIPAA standards directly affect Covered Entities. We have reviewed our activities and believe that we are a Covered Entity to the extent that we maintain a “group health plan” for the benefit of our employees. Such a plan, even if not a separate legal entity from us as its sponsor, is included in the HIPAA definition of Covered Entities. We have taken steps we believe to be appropriate and required to bring our group health plan into compliance with HIPAA. We do not believe that we are a Covered Entity as a health care provider or as a health care clearinghouse; however, the definition of a health care clearinghouse is broad and we cannot offer any assurance that we could not be considered a health care clearinghouse under HIPAA or that, if we are determined to be a healthcare clearinghouse, the consequences would not be adverse to our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the Privacy and Security Standards affect third parties that create, access, or receive Protected Health Information in order to perform a function or activity on behalf of a Covered Entity. Such third parties are called “Business Associates.” Covered Entities must have a written “Business Associate Agreement” with such third parties, containing specified written satisfactory assurances, consistent with the Privacy and Security standards, that the third party will safeguard Protected Health Information that it creates or accesses and will fulfill other material obligations to support the Covered Entity’s own HIPAA compliance. Most of our customers are Covered Entities, and we function in many of our relationships as a Business Associate of those customers. We would face liability under our Business Associate Agreements if we do not comply with our Business Associate obligations. In addition, the federal agencies with enforcement authority have taken the position that a Covered Entity can be subject to HIPAA civil penalties and sanctions for a breach of a Business Associate Agreement. The penalties for a violation of HIPAA by a Covered Entity are significant and could have an adverse impact upon our business, financial condition and results of operations, if such penalties ever were imposed. Additionally, Covered Entities will be required to adopt a unique standard National Provider Identifier (NPI) for use in filing and processing health care claims and other transactions. Subject to the discussion set forth above, we believe that the principal effects of HIPAA are, first, to require that our systems be capable of being operated by our customers in a manner that is compliant with the various HIPAA standards and, second, to require us to enter into and comply with Business Associate Agreements with our Covered Entity customers. For most Covered Entities, the deadlines for compliance with the Privacy Standards and the Transaction Standards occurred in 2003. Covered Entities, with the exception of small health plans (as that term is defined by the Privacy Standards), were required to be in compliance with the Security Standards by April 20, 2005 and to use NPIs in standard transactions no later than the compliance dates, which was May 23, 2007 for all but small health plans and is one year later for small health plans. We have policies and procedures that we believe assure compliance with all federal and state confidentiality requirements for the handling of Protected Health Information that we receive and with our obligations under Business Associate Agreements. In particular, we believe that our systems and products are capable of being used by our customers in compliance with the Transaction Standards and Security Standards and are, or will be, capable of being used by our customers in compliance with the NPI requirements. If, however, we do not follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent the unauthorized disclosure of Protected Health Information, we could be subject to liability, fines and lawsuits, termination of our customer contracts or our operations could be shut down. Moreover, because all HIPAA Standards are subject to change or interpretation and because certain other HIPAA Standards, not discussed above, are not yet published, we cannot predict the full future impact of HIPAA on our business and operations. In the event that the HIPAA standards and compliance requirements change or are interpreted in a way that requires any material change to the way in which we do business, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Additionally, certain state laws are not preempted by HIPAA and may impose independent obligations upon our customers or us. Additional legislation governing the acquisition, storage and transmission or other dissemination of health record information and other personal information, including social security numbers, has been proposed at both the state and federal level. Such legislation may require holders of such information to implement additional security, reporting or other measures that may require substantial expenditures and may impose liability for a failure to comply with such requirements. In many cases, such proposed state 18 Table of Contents legislation includes provisions that are not preempted by HIPAA. There can be no assurance that changes to state or federal laws will not materially restrict the ability of providers to submit information from patient records using our products and services. • Electronic Prescribing. The use of our software by physicians to perform a variety of functions, including electronic prescribing, electronic routing of prescriptions to pharmacies and dispensing, is governed by state and federal law, including fraud and abuse laws. States have differing prescription format requirements, which we have programmed into our software. Many existing laws and regulations, when enacted, did not anticipate methods of e-commerce now being developed. While federal law and the laws of many states permit the electronic transmission of prescription orders, the laws of several states neither specifically permit nor specifically prohibit the practice. Given the rapid growth of electronic transactions in healthcare, and particularly the growth of the Internet, we expect the remaining states to directly address these areas with regulation in the near future. In addition, on November 7, 2005, the Department of Health and Human Services published its final “E-Prescribing and the Prescription Drug Program” regulations (E-Prescribing Regulations). These regulations are required by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) and became effective beginning on January 1, 2006. The E-Prescribing Regulations consist of detailed standards and requirements, in addition to the HIPAA standards discussed above, for prescription and other information transmitted electronically in connection with a drug benefit covered by the MMA’s Prescription Drug Benefit. These standards cover not only transactions between prescribers and dispensers for prescriptions but also electronic eligibility and benefits inquiries and drug formulary and benefit coverage information. The standards apply to prescription drug plans participating in the MMA’s Prescription Drug Benefit. Aspects of our clinical products are affected by such regulation because of the need of our customers to comply, as discussed above. Compliance with these regulations could be burdensome, time-consuming and expensive. We also could become subject to future legislation and regulations concerning the development and marketing of healthcare software systems. For example, regulatory authorities such as the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services may impose functionality standards with regard to electronic prescribing and EHR technologies. These could increase the cost and time necessary to market new services and could affect us in other respects not presently foreseeable. • Electronic Health Records. A number of important federal and state laws govern the use and content of electronic health record systems, including fraud and abuse laws that may affect the donation of such technology. As a company that provides EHR systems to a variety of providers of healthcare, our systems and services must be designed in a manner that facilitates our customers’ compliance with these laws. Because this is a topic of increasing state and federal regulation, we must continue to monitor legislative and regulatory developments that might affect our business practices as they relate to EHR systems. We cannot predict the content or effect of possible future regulation on our business practices. Also, as described above, our TouchWorks EHR and HealthMatics EHR are certified by CCHIT as meeting CCHIT’s certification standards for functionality, interoperability and security. Our failure to maintain CCHIT certification or otherwise meet industry standards would adversely impact our business. • Claims Transmission. Our system electronically transmits claims for prescription medications dispensed by physicians to patients’ payers for immediate approval and reimbursement. Federal law provides that it is both a civil and a criminal violation for any person to submit, or cause to be submitted, a claim to any payer, including, without limitation, Medicare, Medicaid and all private health plans and managed care plans, seeking payment for any services or products that overbills or bills for items that have not been provided to the patient. We have in place policies and procedures that we believe assure that all claims that are transmitted by our system are accurate and complete, provided that the information given to us by our customers is also accurate and complete. If, however, we do not 19 Table of Contents follow those procedures and policies, or they are not sufficient to prevent inaccurate claims from being submitted, we could be subject to liability. As discussed above, the HIPAA Transaction Standards and the HIPAA Security Standards also affect our claims transmission services, since those services must be structured and provided in a way that supports our customers’ HIPAA compliance obligations. Furthermore, to the extent that there is some type of security breach it could have a material adverse effect. • Medical Devices. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has promulgated a draft policy for the regulation of computer software products as medical devices under the 1976 Medical Device Amendments to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act. To the extent that computer software is a medical device under the policy, we, as a manufacturer of such products, could be required, depending on the product, to register and list our products with the FDA; notify the FDA and demonstrate substantial equivalence to other products on the market before marketing such products; or obtain FDA approval by demonstrating safety and effectiveness before marketing a product. Depending on the intended use of a device, the FDA could require us to obtain extensive data from clinical studies to demonstrate safety or effectiveness or substantial equivalence. If the FDA requires this data, we would be required to obtain approval of an investigational device exemption before undertaking clinical trials. Clinical trials can take extended periods of time to complete. We cannot provide assurances that the FDA will approve or clear a device after the completion of such trials. In addition, these products would be subject to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act’s general controls, including those relating to good manufacturing practices and adverse experience reporting. Although it is not possible to anticipate the final form of the FDA’s policy with regard to computer software, we expect that the FDA is likely to become increasingly active in regulating computer software intended for use in healthcare settings regardless of whether the draft is finalized or changed. The FDA can impose extensive requirements governing pre- and post-market conditions like service investigation, approval, labeling and manufacturing. In addition, the FDA can impose extensive requirements governing development controls and quality assurance processes. • e-Detailing. Our pharmaceutical and medical device clients use physicians interactive e-Detailing programs to provide physicians with valuable and up-to-date information about various medications and medical products, as well as to collect feedback from physician opinion leaders and other experts. Pharmaceutical marketing activities are subject to various federal and state regulatory and compliance initiatives, including an industry-sponsored ethics initiative developed by the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA Code) and the final Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers issued on April 28, 2003 by the HHS Office of Inspector General (OIG). Such initiatives, some of which are required and some of which are voluntary, articulate concerns, recommendations and standards concerning a variety of pharmaceutical product marketing activities and issues, including e-Detailing, kickbacks, discounts, switching arrangements, research/consulting/advisory payments, relationships with other healthcare providers, including physicians, and gifts/entertainment/other remuneration. Additionally, as a sender of electronic mail in connection with some of our educational programs, we are subject to the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and other state and federal laws regulating senders of electronic mail for commercial purposes. We believe that our programs and activities comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations and are consistent with PhRMA Code and OIG initiatives. However, if our physician educational programs were found to be conducted in a manner inconsistent with such federal and state laws, regulations or initiatives, or if we are required to materially change the way in which we do business in order to conform with such laws, regulations and initiatives, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be adversely affected. • Licensure and Physician Dispensing. As a repackager and distributor of drugs, we are subject to regulation by and licensure with the FDA, the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA) and various state agencies that regulate wholesalers or distributors. Among the regulations applicable to our repackaging operation are the FDA’s “good manufacturing practices.” We are subject to periodic inspections of our facilities by regulatory authorities to confirm that we have policies and procedures in place in order to comply with applicable legal requirements. Because the FDA’s good manufacturing practices were 20 Table of Contents designed to govern the manufacture, rather than the repackaging, of drugs, we face legal uncertainty concerning the application of some aspects of these regulations and of the standards that the FDA will enforce. If we do not maintain all necessary licenses, or the FDA decides to substantially modify the manner in which it has historically enforced its good manufacturing practice regulations against drug repackagers or the FDA or DEA finds any violations during one of their periodic inspections, we could be subject to liability, and our operations could be shut down. In addition to registration/licensure and “good manufacturing practices” compliance issues, federal and certain state laws require recordkeeping and a drug pedigree when a company is involved in the distribution of prescription drugs. Under the pedigree requirements, each person who is engaged in the wholesale distribution of a prescription drug in interstate commerce, who is not the manufacturer or an authorized distributor of record for that drug, must provide to the person who receives the drug, a pedigree for that drug. A drug pedigree is a statement of origin that identifies each prior sale, purchase, or trade of a drug. State laws in this area are not consistent with respect to their requirements, and thus the company needs to carefully monitor legal developments in this area. To the extent we are found to violate any applicable federal or state law related to drug pedigree requirements, any such violation could adversely affect our business. • While physician dispensing of medications for profit is allowed in most states, it is limited in a few states. It is possible that certain states may enact further legislation or regulations prohibiting, restricting or further regulating physician dispensing. Similarly, while in a July 2002 Opinion the American Medical Association’s Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs (CEJA) provides, in relevant part, that “Physicians may dispense drugs within their office practices provided such dispensing primarily benefits the patient,” the American Medical Association has historically taken inconsistent positions on physician dispensing. Past reports of the CEJA have opposed the in-office sale of health-related products by physicians, and it is possible that the CEJA may in the future oppose the in-office sale of health-related products by physicians. Any such state legislative prohibitions or CEJA opposition of physician dispensing could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. • Congress enacted significant prohibitions against physician self-referrals in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. This law, commonly referred to as “Stark II,” applies to physician dispensing of outpatient prescription drugs that are reimbursable by Medicare or Medicaid. Stark II, however, includes an exception for the provision of in-office ancillary services, including a physician’s dispensing of outpatient prescription drugs, provided that the physician meets specified requirements. We believe that the physicians who use our system or dispense drugs distributed by us are aware of these requirements, but we do not monitor their compliance and have no assurance that the physicians are in material compliance with Stark II. If it were determined that the physicians who use our system or dispense pharmaceuticals purchased from us were not in compliance with Stark II, it could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. • As a distributor of prescription drugs to physicians, we are subject to the federal anti-kickback statute, which applies to Medicare, Medicaid and other state and federal programs. The federal anti-kickback statute prohibits the solicitation, offer, payment or receipt of remuneration in return for referrals or the purchase, or in return for recommending or arranging for the referral or purchase, of goods, including drugs, covered by the programs. The federal anti-kickback statute provides a number of statutory exceptions and regulatory “safe harbors” for particular types of transactions. We believe that our arrangements with our customers are in material compliance with the anti-kickback statute and relevant safe harbors. Many states have similar fraud and abuse laws, and we believe that we are in material compliance with those laws. If, however, it were determined that we, as a distributor of prescription drugs to physicians, were not in compliance with the federal anti-kickback statute, we could be subject to liability, and our operations could be curtailed. Moreover, if the activities of our customers or other entity with which we have a business relationship were found to constitute a violation of the federal anti-kickback law and we, as a result of the provision of 21 Table of Contents products or services to such customer or entity, were found to have knowingly participated in such activities, we could be subject to sanction or liability under such laws, including civil and/or criminal penalties, as well as exclusion from government health programs. As a result of exclusion from government health programs, neither products nor services could be provided to any beneficiaries of any federal healthcare program. Increased government involvement in healthcare could adversely affect our business. U.S. healthcare system reform under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, and other initiatives at both the federal and state level, could increase government involvement in healthcare, lower reimbursement rates and otherwise change the business environment of our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship. While no federal price controls are included in the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act, any legislation that reduces physician incentives to dispense medications in their offices could adversely affect physician acceptance of our products. We cannot predict whether or when future healthcare reform initiatives at the federal or state level or other initiatives affecting our business will be proposed, enacted or implemented or what impact those initiatives may have on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our customers and the other entities with which we have a business relationship could react to these initiatives and the uncertainty surrounding these proposals by curtailing or deferring investments, including those for our products and services. Additionally, government regulation could alter the clinical workflow of physicians, hospitals and other healthcare participants, thereby limiting the utility of our products and services to existing and potential customers and curtailing broad acceptance of our products and services. Further examples of government involvement could include requiring the standardization of technology relating to EHR’s, providing customers with incentives to adopt EHR solutions or developing a low-cost government sponsored EHR solution, such as VistA-Office EHR. Additionally, new safe harbors to the federal Anti-Kickback Statute and corresponding exceptions to the federal Stark law may alter the competitive landscape, as such new safe harbors and exceptions allow hospitals and certain other donors to donate certain items and services used in electronic prescription systems and electronic health records systems. These new safe harbors and exceptions are intended to accelerate the adoption of electronic prescription systems and electronic health records systems, and therefore provide new and attractive opportunities for us to work with hospitals and other donors who wish to provide our clinical solutions to physicians. At the same time, such safe harbors and exceptions may result in increased competition from providers of acute EHR solutions, whose hospital customers may seek to donate their existing acute EHR solutions to physicians for use in ambulatory settings. In addition, the federal government and state governments, including Florida, have imposed or may in the future impose pedigree requirements for pharmaceutical distribution. Our medications business is required to comply with any current regulations relating to pharmaceutical distribution and will be required to comply with any future regulations and such compliance may impose additional costs on our business. If the electronic healthcare information market fails to develop as quickly as expected, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. The electronic healthcare information market is in the early stages of development and is rapidly evolving. A number of market entrants have introduced or developed products and services that are competitive with one or more components of the solutions we offer. We expect that additional companies will continue to enter this market. In new and rapidly evolving industries, there is significant uncertainty and risk as to the demand for, and market acceptance of, recently introduced products and services. Because the markets for our products and services are new and evolving, we are not able to predict the size and growth rate of the markets with any certainty. We cannot assure you that markets for our products and services will develop or that, if they do, they will be strong and continue to grow at a sufficient pace. If markets fail to develop, develop more slowly than expected or become saturated with competitors, our business, financial condition and results of operations will be adversely affected. 22 Table of Contents Consolidation in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many healthcare industry participants are consolidating to create integrated healthcare delivery systems with greater market power. As provider networks and managed care organizations consolidate, thus decreasing the number of market participants, competition to provide products and services like ours will become more intense, and the importance of establishing relationships with key industry participants will become greater. These industry participants may try to use their market power to negotiate price reductions for our products and services. Further, consolidation of management and billing services through integrated delivery systems may decrease demand for our products. If we were forced to reduce our prices, our business would become less profitable unless we were able to achieve corresponding reductions in our expenses. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Because of certain features of our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures and anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law and in our organizational documents, a takeover of Allscripts may be difficult, and could prevent investors from obtaining an optimal price for our shares of common stock in the event of a takeover. We are required to increase the conversion rate on our 3.50% convertible senior debentures that are converted in connection with certain change of control transactions that occur on or prior to July 15, 2009, which effectively increases the cost of a takeover of the company. In addition, in the event of a change of control of the company, subject to certain exceptions, holders of the debentures have the right to require us to repurchase in cash all or any portion of their debentures. These features may in certain circumstances make more difficult or discourage such a takeover. Additionally, certain provisions of Delaware law and our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, as amended, and by-laws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a third party to acquire, or of discouraging a third party from attempting to acquire, control of us. These provisions: • authorize the issuance of preferred stock that can be created and issued by our Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval to increase the number of outstanding shares and deter or prevent a takeover attempt; • prohibit common stockholder action by written consent, thereby requiring all common stockholder actions to be taken at a meeting of our common stockholders; • prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors, which would otherwise enable less than a majority of stockholders to elect director candidates; • limit the ability of stockholders to call special meetings of stockholders; • establish advance notice requirements for nominations for election to our Board of Directors or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings; and • provide for a classified Board of Directors, expanding the time required to change the composition of a majority of directors. In addition, we are subject to the anti-takeover provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us. 23 Table of Contents Future sales of our common stock in the public market could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock that we may issue and our ability to raise funds in new securities offerings. Future sales of substantial amounts of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that such sales could occur, could adversely affect prevailing trading prices of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through future offerings of equity or equity-related securities. As of February 15, 2008, we had approximately: • 56,908,319 shares of common stock outstanding; • 3,333 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon exercise of outstanding warrants; • 4,428,790 shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance pursuant to stock options and other awards outstanding under our stock plans at a weighted average exercise price of $8.95 per share; • 1,398,764 additional shares of common stock reserved and available for issuance under our stock plans; • 1,255,646 shares of unvested restricted common stock to employees and directors; and • 7,329,424 shares of common stock reserved for issuance upon conversion of our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures. The number of shares issuable upon conversion of these debentures is subject to adjustment from time to time pursuant to anti-dilution provisions. In connection with our acquisition strategy, we may issue shares of our common stock as consideration in other acquisition transactions. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of shares of common stock or the availability of shares of common stock for future sale will have on the trading price of our common stock. Our outstanding 3.50% convertible senior debentures are convertible at the option of the holders into shares of our common stock, subject to the certain conditions set forth in the indenture governing these debentures. Any shares of common stock issued on conversion of these debentures and subsequently sold will be freely tradable in the public markets without restriction. In addition, we will be required to repurchase these debentures following certain change in control events relating to us, and the holders of these debentures will have the option to require us to purchase all or a portion of their debentures on July 15, 2009, July 15, 2014 and July 15, 2019. The conversion of these debentures into common stock or the issuance of common stock to pay the purchase price of any such debentures could result in the issuance of a substantial number of shares of our common stock and substantial dilution to our stockholders. Our issuance of preferred stock could adversely affect holders of our common stock and discourage a takeover. Our Board of Directors is authorized to issue up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders. Our Board of Directors also has the power, without stockholder approval, to set the terms of any series of preferred stock that may be issued, including voting rights (except that shares of preferred stock may not have more than one vote per share), dividend rights, preferences over our common stock with respect to dividends or in the event of a dissolution, liquidation or winding up and other terms. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock that is convertible into our common stock at greater than a one-to-one ratio, the voting and other rights of the holders of our common stock or the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our Board of Directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and prevent a transaction favorable to the holders of our common stock. Failure to maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 could have an adverse effect on our business and the trading price of our common stock. If we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and as such standards are modified, supplemented or amended 24 Table of Contents from time to time, we may not be able to ensure that we can conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal control over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have an adverse effect on the price of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has been and may continue to be volatile. The market price of our common stock is volatile and could fluctuate significantly in response to the factors described above and other factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements of technological innovations or new services or products by our competitors or us; • changes in financial estimates by securities analysts; • conditions and trends in the electronic healthcare information, Internet, e-commerce and pharmaceutical markets; and • general market conditions and other factors. In addition, the stock markets, especially the Nasdaq National Market, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies and Internet-related companies in particular. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance. These broad market factors may materially affect the trading price of our common stock. General economic, political and market conditions such as recessions and interest rate fluctuations may also have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Volatility in the market price for our common stock may result in the filing of securities class action litigation. Our quarterly operating results may vary. Our quarterly operating results have varied in the past, and we expect that our quarterly operating results will continue to vary in future periods depending on a number of factors, some of which we have no control over, including customers’ budgetary constraints and internal acceptance procedures, seasonal variances in demand for our products and services, the sales, service and implementation cycles for our clinical software products and physician education products and services, potential downturns in the healthcare market and in economic conditions generally, and other factors described in this “Risk Factors” section. For instance, all other factors aside, sales of our prepackaged medications have historically been highest in the third and fourth quarters. Sales of our software products have also historically been highest in the fourth quarter. We base our expense levels in part upon our expectations concerning future revenue, and these expense levels are relatively fixed in the short term. If we have lower revenue than expected, we may not be able to reduce our spending in the short term in response. Any shortfall in revenue would have a direct impact on our results of operations. In addition, our product sales cycle for larger sales is lengthy and unpredictable, making it difficult to estimate our future bookings for any given period. If we do not achieve projected booking targets for a given period, securities analysts may change their recommendations on our common stock. For these and other reasons, we may not meet the earnings estimates of securities analysts or investors, and our stock price could suffer. 25 Table of Contents Conversion of the 3.50% convertible senior debentures will dilute the ownership interest of our stockholders, including holders who had previously converted their debentures. The conversion of some or all of our 3.50% convertible senior debentures will dilute the ownership interests of our stockholders. Any sales in the public market of the common stock issuable upon such conversion could adversely affect prevailing market prices of our common stock. In addition, the existence of the debentures may encourage short selling by market participants because the conversion of the debentures could depress the price of our common stock. If we fail to comply with financial covenants under the Credit Facility entered into in connection with the ECIN acquisition, our results of operation and financial condition could be adversely affected. Our Credit Facility entered into in connection with the ECIN acquisition contains certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and total leverage ratios. If we fail to comply with these covenants, an event of default may occur, resulting in, among other things, the requirement to immediately repay all outstanding amounts owed thereunder, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operation, financial condition or the price of our common stock. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 