Item 1A. Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. We cannot be certain that we will successfully address these risks. If we are unable to address these risks, our business may not grow, our stock price may suffer and/or we may be unable to stay in business. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. Our independent auditors have expressed substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern, and we may be unable to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future. We have incurred substantial losses to date and we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $162.7 million. We have received a report from Ernst & Young LLP, our independent registered public accounting firm, regarding our consolidated financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, which included an explanatory paragraph stating that the financial statements were prepared assuming we will continue as a going concern. The report also stated that our recurring operating losses and need for additional financing have raised substantial doubt about our ability to continue as a going concern. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and investment balances will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements through 2008, based on our current cost structure and current assumptions regarding the clinical and other studies and other requirements that we believe may be necessary to obtain U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, clearance of Version 1 of our DNA-based colorectal cancer screening technology. We have not yet reached final agreement with the FDA regarding any studies that would be necessary for the FDA clearance of Version 1 of our DNA-based technology, however, and the costs of any such studies could require us to obtain 15 additional funding before previously expected. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the following: •the regulatory requirements for PreGen-Plus, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies, and the timing of any required regulatory approval process; •acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; •our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic agreement with Laboratory Corporation of America Holdings, or LabCorp; •a determination that additional studies surrounding our technologies are needed; •a sustained level of interest and commitment by LabCorp in the commercialization of our technologies; •stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; •the scope of and progress made in our research and development activities; and •the successful commercialization and sales growth of PreGen-Plus, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies. We do not expect that product royalty payments or milestone payments from LabCorp will materially supplement our liquidity position in the next twelve months, if at all. Since we have no current sources of material ongoing revenue, we will have to raise additional monies during 2008 through the sale of debt or equity securities, strategic collaborations with third parties and other strategic opportunities, if any, to continue our business operations beyond the end of our 2008 fiscal year. We cannot assure you that any of these alternatives will be successful, or even available, or that our actual cash requirements will not be greater than anticipated. In addition, the going concern explanatory paragraph included in our auditor's report on our consolidated financial statements could inhibit our ability to enter into license agreements or other collaborations or our ability to raise additional financing. If we are unable to obtain the required funds to enable us to fund our operations through the completion of any financing or other strategic opportunities that may become available to us, we will be required to further reduce the scale of our operations and our business, our results of operation and financial condition would be materially adversely affected and we may be required to seek bankruptcy protection. Additionally, even if we do raise sufficient capital and generate revenues to support our operating expenses beyond fiscal 2008, there can be no assurances that the revenue will be sufficient to enable us to develop our business to a level where it will generate profits and cash flows from operations. In addition, if we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity or convertible debt securities, the percentage ownership of our stockholders could be significantly diluted, and these newly-issued securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of existing stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. If we obtain additional debt financing, a substantial portion of our operating cash flow may be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on such indebtedness, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. We may never successfully commercialize any of our technologies or become profitable. We have incurred losses since we were formed and have had only modest product and royalty fee revenues since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in August 2003. From our date of inception on February 10, 1995 through December 31, 2007, we have accumulated a total deficit of approximately $162.7 million. We expect that our losses will continue for at least the next several years and, depending upon our strategic direction, we may need to invest significant additional funds toward other 16 areas in the oncology testing business. The FDA approval path for our colorectal cancer screening technology is likely to involve significant time as well as research and development expenditures. Given our current levels of cash and revenues, and without raising additional capital, we will not be able to spend the amounts that we believe will likely be necessary to fund these investments and there can be no assurance that LabCorp will invest sufficient amounts in sales and marketing activities for PreGen-Plus or other future testing services based on our technologies. In addition, while we believe we are permitted, from a regulatory standpoint, to promote stool-based DNA testing services generically, our inability to market the brand "PreGen-Plus" under current FDA regulations may limit our return on amounts that we have invested or may invest in sales and marketing activities. If our revenue does not grow significantly, we will not be profitable. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the sale of any of our technologies will be sufficient to make us profitable. Our future revenues will depend, in large part, upon whether PreGen-Plus or other testing services offered by LabCorp based on our technologies are broadly ordered by medical practitioners and requested by patients. We believe that our ability to successfully commercialize our technologies may be affected by the following: •the regulatory requirements for PreGen-Plus or Version 2, and the timing of any required regulatory filing and approval process; •our ability to continue to fund our operations; •whether LabCorp continues to offer PreGen-Plus or Version 2 commercially; •acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; •effective negotiation and contracting by us and LabCorp with Medicare and other third-party payors for coverage and reimbursement of PreGen-Plus; •whether payors issue favorable coverage policy for stool-based DNA screening if it is included in the screening guidelines of one or more, but not all, of the major guidelines organizations; •effective LabCorp sales and sales management personnel and processes to educate physician staffs regarding PreGen-Plus and patient compliance; •effective EXACT personnel to educate third-party payors, managed care organizations, and technology assessment groups regarding stool-based DNA screening; •whether the lack of a screening interval recommendation by the American Cancer Society, or ACS, and the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, or MSTF-CRC, in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines issued on March 5, 2008 will limit physician ordering or third party reimbursement, including Medicare, of products based on our stool-based DNA technology; •patient acceptance of PreGen-Plus, including its novel sample collection process; •stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; and •the quality and service of the LabCorp testing process. Many of these factors are outside our control and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that one or more of the foregoing will occur in the near term, or at all. Failure to achieve one or more of the foregoing events could substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability and will negatively impact the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies. 17 If we or LabCorp fail to comply with FDA requirements, we or LabCorp may be limited or prohibited in our ability to commercialize stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer and may be subject to stringent penalties. Since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus, LabCorp has offered its testing service as an in-house developed laboratory test, or "homebrew" testing service. On October 11, 2007 the FDA sent a warning letter to us, which we refer to as the Warning Letter, with respect to the PreGen-Plus testing service, indicating that PreGen-Plus is a Class III medical device and that it cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate pre-market approval or clearance from the FDA. We are currently in communication with the FDA to specifically address the matters raised in the Warning Letter and to determine the appropriate regulatory approval process to resolve the matters raised in the Warning Letter. On November 2, 2007, in response to the FDA Warning Letter, we submitted to the FDA a pre-IDE, or pre-Investigational Device Exemption, request that described the specifics of our intended 510(k) filing approach, including the reproducibility studies that we proposed to perform in connection therewith. The FDA responded by letter to our pre-IDE submission in December 2007, and, in an in-person meeting with the FDA in February 2008, we learned that the most likely regulatory path forward with respect to our Version 1 technology would be a de novo 510(k) application, which would likely include a single-site reproducibility study. The FDA has not yet indicated definitively whether the submission with respect to Version 1 of our technology would be a de novo 510(k). Moreover, the FDA may determine that a pre-market approval application, or PMA, is the appropriate path forward for us with respect to Version 1 of our stool-based DNA technology. The FDA may also determine that additional clinical studies, which could be costly and time-intensive, are required in connection with our submission, or that our proposal is otherwise inadequate. Accordingly, the costs of any such studies could require that we seek additional capital in the near term, which could have an adverse and material impact on our financial position. There can be no assurance that the filing of a de novo 510(k) for our Version 1 technology will bring us into compliance with the matters raised by the FDA in the Warning Letter, or that the FDA will not issue a similar letter to LabCorp or otherwise require LabCorp to stop offering its PreGen-Plus testing service during the regulatory clearance process. The clearance or approval process for any version of our DNA-based technologies may require, among other things, successfully completing additional clinical and other studies, may require a PMA (rather than a 510(k) or de novo 510(k)) and may also necessitate our submitting PMAs with the FDA for multiple versions of our technology simultaneously or in sequence, all of which could take substantial time and resources including investment by us of substantial additional funds. There can be no assurance that any version of our stool-based DNA technology will be cleared or approved by the FDA, that our proposed de novo 510(k) approach will satisfy the FDA's regulatory requirements for our Version 1 technology or any subsequent version of our technology, or that such FDA clearance or approval process can be completed without significant delays or material additional expense resulting from additional FDA required clinical or other studies. We may not have sufficient funds to complete any FDA regulatory clearance or approval process for our DNA-based technologies. In addition, we may delay any such activities and process to preserve funds for on-going operations or otherwise. Moreover, we will require the support of third parties to assist us in the achievement of objectives relating to FDA clearance of our technologies, which may be costly. Ongoing compliance with FDA regulations will also increase the cost of conducting our business, subject us and LabCorp to inspection by FDA and to the requirements of FDA and penalties for failure to comply with these requirements. Moreover, we cannot assure you that the commercial sales of PreGen-Plus will not be delayed, halted or prevented during the regulatory approval process, or that the FDA will not initiate enforcement action, which could involve criminal or civil penalties and cause material harm to our business. Additionally, LabCorp could decide to stop offering the current version of PreGen-Plus, could decide not to launch the Version 2 technology, or could decide to defer any potential future launch of 18 the Version 2 technology until that version has been approved or cleared by the FDA, if ever, any of which would materially increase our costs, limit our revenue and cause material harm to our business and result in impairments of our fixed assets or capitalized patent portfolio ($0.4 million at December 31, 2007). Our ability to generate revenue depends on LabCorp's commercial sales of PreGen-Plus and future generations of our technologies. All of our current operating revenue is dependent upon LabCorp's commercial sales of PreGen-Plus. We cannot assure you that LabCorp will ever achieve sufficient sales of PreGen-Plus or future generations of PreGen-Plus, such as Version 2, for us to become profitable. Moreover, in light of recent FDA regulatory action, we cannot assure you that LabCorp will keep PreGen-Plus on the market or commercially launch Version 2 while we seek FDA clearance for our technologies, if at all. If LabCorp is unsuccessful in increasing sales of PreGen-Plus or commercializing Version 2, our revenues will be limited and our ability to become profitable will be materially adversely affected. We cannot control whether LabCorp will devote sufficient resources to PreGen-Plus or Version 2 under our strategic agreement, or whether it will elect to pursue the development or commercialization of Version 2. Any failure of the LabCorp sales force to give continued and sustained focus to PreGen-Plus or Version 2 could harm the demand creation for our stool-based DNA screening technologies and, in turn, could materially adversely affect our revenues and delay any performance-based payments for which we might otherwise be eligible, based on substantial sales volumes, under our strategic agreement with LabCorp. Any change in the senior management or organizational structure within LabCorp or us could also negatively impact our ability to successfully commercialize PreGen-Plus or Version 2. Further, laboratory operating factors incurred at LabCorp such as turnaround times for the testing process, possible pre- and post-analytical sample and sample processing deficiencies and efforts to obtain third-party reimbursement all influence the rate of market adoption for our technologies. If LabCorp encounters difficulty performing PreGen-Plus or Version 2 tests on an accurate and timely basis or has difficulty obtaining reimbursement, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Future demand for the PreGen-Plus test may require LabCorp to further optimize operational and quality assurance processes to support commercial testing. No assurance can be given that such improvements will be successfully implemented by LabCorp, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our business is substantially dependent on the success of our strategic agreement with LabCorp. We have a strategic alliance with LabCorp, under which we licensed to LabCorp certain of our technologies, including improvements to such technologies, that are required for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus. If LabCorp were to terminate the agreement, fail to meet its obligations under the agreement, decide to stop processing PreGen-Plus commercially, or otherwise decrease its commitment to PreGen-Plus, our revenues would be materially adversely affected, the commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be interrupted and we could become insolvent. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to enter into a similar agreement with another company to commercialize this technology. Moreover, if we do not achieve certain milestones, or LabCorp does not achieve certain revenue and performance thresholds within the time periods prescribed in the agreement, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of the agreement. We and LabCorp have amended our strategic agreement four times to, among other things, effect various changes to the exclusivity terms, payment provisions, milestones and termination and other rights. To accomplish our long-term business objectives, we may be required to enter into additional amendments to our license agreement with LabCorp. We cannot assure you that any additional amendments could be entered into on terms favorable to us. In addition, we cannot assure you that our prior amendments or other strategic initiatives with LabCorp will accomplish the long-term goals of either party. Disagreements with LabCorp could delay or terminate the continued commercialization of PreGen-Plus by LabCorp or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would have a material 19 adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in managing our strategic relationship with LabCorp, we would be required to enter into other strategic relationships for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus or attempt to commercialize the testing service ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to license our technology to another commercial laboratory or otherwise successfully commercialize the testing service, and our failure to do either of the foregoing would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not issue positive policy decisions approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised. Many physicians may decide not to order colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies unless the tests are adequately reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of tests incorporating new technology. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor's determination that tests using our technologies are: sensitive for colorectal cancer; not experimental or investigational; approved by the major guidelines organizations; reliable, safe and effective, medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Currently, no third-party payors have issued broad formal policy approving payment for stool-based DNA testing. Furthermore, following the August 1, 2007 acceptance by Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, of our application for a National Coverage Determination, or NCD, on January 30, 2008, CMS issued a Proposed Decision Memo for Screening DNA Stool Test for Colorectal Cancer (CAG-00144N) that proposed not to provide coverage for our Version 1 technology because the FDA has determined that our Version 1 technology required FDA premarket clearance. The proposed decision memo stated that CMS would reconsider providing coverage for our technologies; however, such reconsideration will not take place until after the FDA clears or approves the version of our technology being considered for coverage by CMS. There can be no assurance that any version of our technology will be cleared or approved by the FDA. Even if cleared or approved by the FDA, there can be no assurance that CMS will reach a positive coverage decision regarding our request for an NCD for any version of our technologies. Moreover, even if CMS issues a positive coverage decision for any version of our stool-based DNA screening technology, such coverage may not provide adequate levels of reimbursement. Additionally, despite the fact that our technology is included in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and MSTF-CRC, the FDA warning letter may have a similar impact on private third-party payors in that those payors may defer reimbursement policy decisions with respect to our technology until we obtain FDA clearance for our technologies, if ever. Moreover, at its February 2008 meeting, the CPT Editorial Panel of the American Medical Association considered a request from gastroenterology specialty physician organizations to create a category III code for a stool-based DNA test. While the CPT Editorial Panel decided to postpone discussion on the issue, the application can be reconsidered at any future meeting, unless it is withdrawn. The CPT Editorial Panel meets three times each year; the next two 2008 meetings are in June and October. Category III codes are temporary codes which are used to designate emerging technologies, services and procedures and are issued semi-annually unlike Category I codes which are issued annually. Payors tend to not cover services with Category III codes because they consider "emerging" technologies to be an "investigational" service and are therefore not covered services. The creation of Category III code for our stool-based DNA technology could limit the number of payors that could potentially reimburse stool-based DNA colorectal cancer screening which would materially limit our revenues and adversely affect our operating results and financial position. In addition, we believe there are 19 states in the U.S. with state laws mandating reimbursement for colorectal cancer screening tests by group health insurance plans chartered to operate in those states. The Employee Retirement Security Act (ERISA) exempts self insured health plans from state mandated benefits. In addition, the federal employee health plans and the Medicare program are exempt from state mandates, as they are federally regulated. The state laws vary with regard to whether 20 or not the mandate applies to the State Medicaid program and state employees. Despite the inclusion of our stool-based DNA technology for colorectal cancer screening in the recently released ACS guidelines, we believe that group health insurance plans that may be subject to the state mandates have discretion not to cover certain tests included in the ACS guidelines, including our stool-based DNA screening technology, for a number of reasons including, but not limited to, lack of FDA clearance or approval. Accordingly, group health insurance plans operating in states with colorectal cancer screening mandates may decide not to reimburse for stool-based DNA tests for colorectal cancer. The National Committee for Quality Assurance, or NCQA, is a private, not-for-profit organization that, among other tasks, measures the performance of U.S. based health care plans. The performance measures quantified by the NCQA result in the Healthcare Effectiveness Data and Information Set, or HEDIS. We believe that HEDIS measures could be a factor used by consumers and employers when selecting among alternative healthcare plans in which to enroll. If our stool-based DNA screening technology for colorectal cancer screening is not recognized by NCQA as a test that contributes to a health plan's score for the colorectal cancer screening measure, health plans may not reimburse for sDNA testing. Despite being included in the recently updated colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and the MSTF-CRC, there can be no assurance that stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer will be adopted by the NCQA as a test that contributes to increasing the score of the HEDIS colorectal cancer screening measure. Such exclusion could materially limit our ability to secure third-party reimbursement and as a result, materially limit our revenues. Neither we nor LabCorp has secured any broad-based policy-level reimbursement approval from Medicare or third-party payors to ensure the long-term commercial success of PreGen-Plus. If we or LabCorp are unable to obtain a positive policy decision from CMS or other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised and our revenues would be significantly limited. The lack of a recommended screening interval for stool-based DNA screening in the guidelines of the American Cancer Society and the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer may limit the acceptance of our technologies among physicians and third party payors, including Medicare. The inclusion of stool-based DNA screening in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and the MSTF-CRC, a consortium of several organizations including representatives of the American College of Gastroenterology, American Gastroenterological Association, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and American College of Physicians/Society of Internal Medicine, issued on March 5, 2008 did not specify any recommended screening interval. By contrast, the ACS and MSTF-CRC guidelines made specific recommendations for each of the other six other colorectal cancer screening modalities included in such guidelines. Lack of a definitive screening interval recommendation by the ACS and the MSTF-CRC may lead to reluctance on the part of doctors to order and reorder colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, which would limit our revenues and materially harm our business and financial results. Moreover, the lack of a screening interval recommendation may also lead to a reluctance by third party payors, including Medicare, to provide adequate reimbursement for our technologies, if at all, which would also have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial position. Our business would suffer if we, or LabCorp, are unable to license certain technologies or obtain raw materials and components or if certain of our licenses were terminated. LabCorp's current configuration of PreGen-Plus requires access to certain technologies and supplies of raw materials, including elements relating to the Effipure microtiter plates, for which licensing and supply agreements are required. Although LabCorp indicated to the FDA that it is working on changes to PreGen-Plus that could eliminate the use of Effipure in processing PreGen-Plus tests, we cannot assure that it will be able to replace Effipure or that any substitute technology will have comparable performance. There also can be no assurance that existing inventory levels of materials necessary to process the PreGen-Plus test will be sufficient to support ongoing processing of 21 such tests for the period of time necessary for LabCorp to replace Effipure in commercial use or for the period of time necessary for LabCorp to transition to Version 2 of the stool-based DNA screening technology, either of which could result in an interruption in the testing service. Moreover, LabCorp's supply of certain materials and other components relating to its Version 1 PreGen-Plus testing service, including Effipure (which has a finite useful life) are nearly exhausted. If LabCorp is unable or unwilling to acquire new materials for the PreGen-Plus Version 1 test, and if LabCorp is unwilling or unable to extend the useful life of components with a finite shelf-life, then LabCorp may be unable to continue to process PreGen-Plus tests in the near term. Failure to transition to a new and effective DNA capture technology or to Version 2 of the test in the near term, could have a material adverse affect on the processing of PreGen-Plus and on our business. In the event LabCorp is able to identify a new DNA capture technology for use in connection with PreGen-Plus, any such technology may require us or LabCorp to pay additional royalties or other fees to third parties, which would have an adverse affect on our revenues or gross margin. Similarly, the commercialization of our Version 2 stool-based DNA screening technology will still require that we or LabCorp license certain third-party intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, can obtain these technologies and raw materials on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any current contractual arrangements between us and third parties, us and LabCorp, LabCorp and vendors in the DNA capture component supply chain, or between our strategic partners and other third parties, will be continued, or not breached or terminated early, or that we or LabCorp will be able to enter into any future relationships necessary to the continued commercial sale of PreGen-Plus or Version 2, or necessary to our realization of material revenues. Any failure to obtain necessary technologies or raw materials could require PreGen-Plus or Version 2 to be re-configured which could interrupt the testing service entirely, negatively impact its commercial sale and increase the costs associated with PreGen-Plus or Version 2, any one of which could materially harm our business and adversely affect our future revenues. If our clinical studies do not prove the superiority, reliability, or effectiveness of stool-based DNA testing, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests based on PreGen-Plus. If the results of our research and clinical studies do not convince third-party payors, physicians and thought leaders of the clinical value of our stool-based DNA technologies, we and LabCorp may never successfully commercialize such testing services and, as a consequence, we may not be able to remain a viable business. For instance, the point sensitivity from our 5,500 patient multi-center study of the bead-based method of Version 1 of our technology was lower than that seen in our previous research and clinical studies. Moreover, in connection with a preliminary review of data from a study conducted by the Mayo Clinic of the bead-based method of Version 1, Hemoccult II and Hemoccult Sensa appeared to have outperformed, at a preliminary stage, our original Version 1 technology in the detection of cancer among the thirteen cancer samples collected in the study up to that point. We believe that the sample collection protocols used in this study, which were the same as those used in our multi-center study, resulted in DNA degradation that, in turn, resulted in lower sensitivity of our technology. Thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, payors and others may, despite the small sample size referenced above, assign significance to this preliminary data, which may significantly adversely affect continued commercialization of the PreGen-Plus testing service. In addition, in a recent research study that we conducted, designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool, Version 2 of our stool-based DNA screening technology demonstrated sensitivity and specificity results of 83 percent and 82 percent, respectively, for detecting colorectal cancer. Previous published studies for stool-based DNA screening have generally shown specificity above 90 percent, and the specificity results of 82 percent may not be deemed clinically or commercially acceptable. There can be no assurance that the overall performance characteristics, or that the design of the Version 2 research study, will be viewed favorably by thought leaders, physicians, and consumers or that LabCorp will be able to achieve similar levels of 22 performance if Version 2 is commercialized as part of its testing service. Moreover, this study involved the analysis of cancer samples from individuals whose colonoscopy results were positive for colorectal cancer. By contrast, our multi-center study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2004, was comprised of cancer samples from an asymptomatic population. Cancer samples derived from a purely asymptomatic, average risk population prior to colonoscopy are typically accorded greater clinical weight when considered by thought-leaders in evaluating study performance. There can be no assurance that the population from which the cancer samples were obtained for the Version 2 study will be viewed as sufficient to support clinical or market acceptance of the Version 2 research study results. If the results of our research and clinical studies, including the results of our recent study of Version 2, do not convince thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, third-party payors and patients that tests using our technologies are reliable, effective and/or superior to existing screening methods, including Hemoccult II, Hemoccult Sensa and immunochemical fecal occult blood testing, or FOBT, or show that our technologies are superior but not by a large enough margin to affect prevailing clinical practice, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests using our technologies, which could slow the demand for PreGen-Plus and the successful commercialization of Version 2. We expect to rely on third parties to conduct any future studies of our technologies that may be required by the FDA, and those third parties may not perform satisfactorily. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical or other studies that may be required to obtain clearance for our DNA-based colorectal screening technology with the FDA. Accordingly, we expect to rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to conduct any such studies. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities will reduce our control over these activities. Accordingly, these third-party contractors may not complete activities on schedule, or may not conduct studies in accordance with regulatory requirements or our study design. Our reliance on third parties that we do not control does not relieve us of our requirement to prepare, and ensure our compliance with, various procedures required under good clinical practices, even though third-party contract research organizations have prepared and are complying with their own, comparable procedures. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or regulatory obligations or meet expected deadlines, if the third parties need to be replaced or if the quality or accuracy of the data they obtain is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or regulatory requirements or for other reasons, our studies may be extended, delayed, suspended or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for our technologies. If PreGen-Plus cannot be effectively sold at a price acceptable to the market, the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be materially harmed. The success of PreGen-Plus and future versions of PreGen-Plus or other testing services based on our technologies depends, in material part, on the ability of LabCorp to price the test at a level acceptable to consumers, physicians and third-party payors. Currently, screening for colorectal cancer using our technologies is more expensive than FOBT because it is labor-intensive and uses highly complex processes and expensive reagents. The price differential between stool-based DNA testing and FOBT, when compared with the performance differential between the two screening modalities, may be viewed as too significant to endorse stool-based DNA screening for guidelines inclusion. In order to make PreGen-Plus less costly and more commercially attractive to consumers, physicians and third party payors, LabCorp will need to reduce the costs of tests using our technologies through significant automation of key operational processes or other cost savings procedures. There can be no assurance that such parties, including Medicare, will pay for PreGen-Plus at levels that will enable LabCorp or us to earn a profit, if at all, regardless of the performance of the technology. If LabCorp fails to create and improve technologies that sufficiently reduce costs, LabCorp's sales of PreGen-Plus and, as a result, our revenues may be limited. Moreover, if LabCorp is unable to sell a sufficient number of tests 23 at favorable pricing levels, we will not be successful and we may not be able to remain viable as a company. If our or LabCorp's technological advancements do not increase the performance of PreGen-Plus in a cost effective manner, the demand for PreGen-Plus may be negatively impacted. We continue to work to improve the performance characteristics of stool-based DNA testing through research on technical innovations, such as our Version 2 technology. However, there can be no assurance that Version 2, or the commercial version of the PreGen-Plus test currently offered by LabCorp will have sufficient sensitivity and specificity or performance to be commercially successful. There also can be no assurance that the sample handling protocols employed by LabCorp for PreGen-Plus are adequate to prevent DNA degradation and resulting negative impacts on test performance. If the current commercial version or future generations of the PreGen-Plus test do not demonstrate a sufficiently significant increase in the sensitivity or performance over that of the original technology in a cost effective manner, sufficient demand for our stool-based DNA screening technologies may never be realized or such demand could be significantly reduced, either of which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues. If an insufficient number of medical practitioners order and reorder tests using our technologies, our revenue and profitability will be limited. If a sufficient number of medical practitioners are not convinced to order and reorder PreGen-Plus, we will not become profitable. Although stool-based DNA testing has been included in the colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the ACS and MSTF-CRC, gastroenterologists and primary care physicians will still have to be made aware of the benefits of stool-based DNA testing through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences, favorable results from clinical studies and obtaining reimbursement from insurers. Our failure to be successful in these efforts would make it difficult to convince medical practitioners to order and reorder PreGen-Plus for their patients which would limit our revenues and materially adversely affect our business. We may experience limits on our revenue if only a small number of people decide to be screened for colorectal cancer using our technologies. Even if our technologies are superior to other colorectal cancer screening options, adequate third-party reimbursement is obtained and we convince medical practitioners to order tests using our technologies, only a small number of people may decide to be screened for colorectal cancer. Despite the availability of current colorectal cancer screening methods as well as the recommendations of the ACS that all Americans age 50 and above be screened for colorectal cancer, a majority of these individuals do not complete a colorectal cancer screening test. If only a small portion of the recommended population is regularly screened for colorectal cancer or decides to utilize colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, we will, despite our efforts, experience limits on our revenue and our business would be materially harmed. We may be subject to substantial costs and liability or be prevented from licensing our technologies for cancer detection as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent rights. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our licensors, our licensees, our suppliers, our strategic partners, or us. We pursue a patent strategy that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the non-invasive early detection of colorectal cancer and is designed to maximize our patent protection against third parties in the U.S. and, potentially, in certain foreign countries. We have filed patent applications that we believe cover methods we have designed to help detect colorectal cancer and other cancers. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate actions against third parties. Any actions regarding patents could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business. Additionally, such actions could result in challenges to the validity or applicability of our patents. Because the 24 U.S. Patent & Trademark Office maintains patent applications in secrecy until a patent application publishes or the patent is issued, others may have filed patent applications covering technology used by us or our partners. Additionally, there may be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our technologies that may block or compete with our technologies. Even if third-party claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and may divert the attention of management and key personnel. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies, if any, awarded against us would not be substantial. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require that we, or our strategic partners, enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. These claims may also result in injunctions against the further development and commercial sale of PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, patents and applications owned by us may become the subject of interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, as well as a possible adverse decision as to the priority of invention of the patent or patent application involved. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application subject to such a proceeding. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property, which would impair our competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection as well as a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technologies and they will be able to compete more effectively against us. As of December 31, 2007 we have 37 issued patents and 22 pending patent applications in the United States and we also have 76 issued foreign patents and 39 pending foreign patent applications. We cannot assure you that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot assure you that other parties will not challenge any patents issued to us, or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. A third party opposed one of our issued European patents relating to the enumerative analysis of nucleic acids in biological samples. The European Patent Office issued a decision to maintain the patent in force; however, this decision may be appealed by the third-party opponent. In addition, one or more of our U.S. patents may be held as invalid if the inventorship is found to be incorrect, although correction is generally possible even after issuance of the patent. We cannot assure you that patent validity will not be challenged on the basis of incorrectly named inventors, nor can we assure you that a necessary correction could be made. A third-party institution is a co-owner of one of our issued patents relating to pooling patient samples in connection with our loss of heterozygosity detection method. We cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in defending challenges made in connection with our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in co-ownership of such patents with a third party or the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. In addition, we have jointly filed and jointly own, with a third-party institution, a pending U.S. patent application and a PCT patent application that has been nationalized and is pending in Canada, Europe, and Japan, which patent applications relate to the use of various DNA markers, including one of our detection methods, to detect cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, bile duct, naso-oro-pharyngeal airways, liver, and/or gall bladder in stool. As joint owners of these patent applications, both we and the third party institution have the rights provided to joint owners under applicable patent law, including the right to use, transfer, and license any issuing patent rights. In addition to our patents, we rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements and 25 employees to sign agreements assigning to us all intellectual property arising from their work for us. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective in protecting our intellectual property rights. We cannot guarantee that the patents issued to us will be broad enough to provide any meaningful protection nor can we assure you that one of our competitors may not develop more effective technologies, designs or methods to test for colorectal cancer or any other common cancer without infringing our intellectual property rights or that one of our competitors might not design around our proprietary technologies. Other companies may develop and market novel or improved methods for detecting colorectal cancer, which may make our technologies less competitive, or even obsolete. The market for colorectal cancer screening is large, approximating 89 million Americans age 50 and above, of which we believe approximately one-half fail to strictly follow the ACS's screening guidelines for colorectal cancer. As a result, the colorectal cancer screening market has attracted competitors, some of which have significantly greater resources than we have. Currently, we face competition from procedure-based detection technologies such as flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and virtual colonoscopy, a procedure being performed in which a radiologist views the inside of the colon through a scanner, as well as from existing guaic-based FOBT, and improved screening tests such as immunochemical FOBT. In addition, some companies and institutions are developing serum-based tests, or screening tests based on the detection of proteins, nucleic acids or the presence of fragments of mutated genes in the blood that are produced by colon cancer. These and other companies may also be working on additional methods of detecting colon cancer that have not yet been announced. We may be unable to compete effectively against these competitors either because their test is superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources and stronger business relationships. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers and may experience a scarcity of raw materials and components. We have historically relied on contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain components for our technologies. We believe that there are relatively few manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying commercial quantities of the raw materials and components necessary for certain elements used in LabCorp's PreGen-Plus testing service. Although we have identified suppliers that we believe are capable of supplying these raw materials and components in sufficient quantity today, there can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, will be able to enter into or maintain these agreements and relationships with such suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, prior to August 2003, stool-based DNA testing had never been offered on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that the raw materials and components necessary to meet demand will be available in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we, or LabCorp, should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the necessary raw materials and components for LabCorp's PreGen-Plus testing service, LabCorp may need to reconfigure its PreGen-Plus testing service which would result in delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales and would materially adversely impact our revenues. If we or our partners fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to stringent penalties and our business may be materially adversely affected. The marketing and sale of PreGen-Plus is subject to various state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that we or our strategic partners will be able to comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines. If we or our partners fail to comply with any such applicable regulations and guidelines, we could incur significant liability and/or our partners could be forced to cease offering PreGen-Plus in certain jurisdictions. Also, conforming the marketing and sale of our technologies to any applicable regulations and guidelines could substantially increase our operating expenses. In addition, LabCorp and any other laboratory that uses PreGen-Plus are subject to the 26 Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is a federal law which regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the U.S. by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. If LabCorp were to lose its CLIA certification, it may no longer be able to offer PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse affect on our business. Moreover, healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments. Development of the existing commercialization strategy for PreGen-Plus has been based on existing healthcare policies. Changes in healthcare policy could substantially interrupt the sales of PreGen-Plus, increase costs, and divert management's attention. For instance, based on the correspondence and discussions with the FDA during 2006, we believed that LabCorp's PreGen-Plus testing service was a laboratory developed test, or homebrew, over which the FDA would exercise its enforcement discretion. In October 2007, we then received the Warning Letter indicating that PreGen-Plus is a Class III medical device and that it cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate pre-market approval or clearance from the FDA. We cannot predict what additional changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends upon the continued services of key members of our senior management team. Although we have in the past entered, and may in the future enter, into retention agreements with members of our management team, each of our executive officers could terminate his relationship with us at any time. For instance, in July 2007, Don M. Hardison resigned his position as our President and Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Hardison has been critical to the pursuit of our business goals and we may experience difficulties developing our technologies and testing processes, and implementing our business strategies. The loss of any member of our current management team could significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business or development objectives and could materially harm our business. In addition, as part of our restructuring activities to reduce expenditures in 2005, 2006 and 2007, we significantly reduced our headcount. These restructurings could materially harm our ability to attract and retain skilled personnel, including our management. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol "EXAS." Factors affecting our stock price may include: •FDA regulation of our or LabCorp's products and services; •technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; •clinical trial results relating to the PreGen-Plus test, stool-based DNA testing in general, or technologies of our competitors; •stool DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; •reimbursement decisions by Medicare and other third party payors; •the establishment of collaborative partnerships; •health care legislation; 27 •intellectual property disputes and other litigation; •additions or departures of key personnel; •the performance characteristics of our technologies; •general market conditions; •the rate of market acceptance of PreGen-Plus; and •sales of our common stock or debt securities. Because we are a company with no significant operating revenue, you may consider any one of these factors to be material. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our share price. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: •demand by physicians and consumers for PreGen-Plus; •new technology introductions; •reimbursement acceptance success; •changes in our agreement with LabCorp; •the number and timing of milestones that we achieve may under collaborative agreements; •impairment of our intellectual property; •the level of our development activity conducted for, and our success in commercializing these developments; and •the level of our spending on PreGen-Plus commercialization efforts, licensing and acquisition initiatives, clinical studies, and internal research and development. Variations in the timing of our future revenue and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, The NASDAQ Global Market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. If we lose the support of our key scientific collaborators, it may be difficult to establish tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which may limit our revenue growth and profitability. We have established relationships with leading scientists and research and academic institutions, such as Mayo Clinic, John Hopkins University and Case Western Reserve University, that we believe are key to establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening. If our collaborators determine that colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies are not appropriate options for colorectal cancer screening, or superior to available colorectal cancer screening tests, or that alternative technologies would be more effective in the early detection of colorectal cancer, we would encounter significant difficulty establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which would limit our revenue growth and profitability. 28 Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and increases in our insurance rates. The sale and use of products or services based on our technologies, or activities related to our research and clinical studies, could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect which resulted in the failure to detect the disease for which it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Certain provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may make it difficult for you to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders and advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 