Risk Factors We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves a number of risks, some of which are beyond our control. This discussion highlights some of the risks which may affect future operating results. These are the risks and uncertainties we believe are most important for you to consider. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us, which we currently deem immaterial or which are similar to those faced by other companies in our industry or business in general, may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition and operating results would likely suffer. If stool-based DNA screening is not included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the major organizations issuing guidelines recommendations, or if inclusion or notification of inclusion in such screening guidelines is significantly delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our future revenues will depend, in large part, upon whether stool-based DNA screening is included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines of major guidelines organizations (including the U.S. Multisociety Task Force on Colorectal Cancer, a consortium of several organizations including representatives of the American College of Gastroenterology, American Gastroenterological Association, American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy and American College of Physicians/Society of Internal Medicine (the “MSTF-CRC”)), and the American Cancer Society (“ACS”). Although the ACS Colorectal Cancer Advisory Committee and the MSTF-CRC, together, the ACS/MSTF-CRC, commenced a review of stool-based DNA and other colorectal cancer screening technologies in June 2006, which continued in September 2006, it did not make any decision regarding the inclusion of stool-based DNA technology in colorectal cancer screening guidelines. The timing and determination as to whether stool-based DNA screening is included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines is outside of our control. We cannot assure you that a decision regarding stool-based DNA will be made or that stool-based DNA screening will ever 13 be included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines. Even if a recommendation is made to include stool-based DNA screening in guidelines, such inclusion could involve a process spanning many months from the meeting of key guidelines decision-makers to notification of inclusion or exclusion from guidelines. In addition, following its June 2006 meeting, the ACS/MSTF-CRC requested certain information from us relating primarily to our Version 2 next generation colorectal cancer technology. It is possible that ACS/MSTF-CRC may reject stool-based DNA screening or defer a recommendation regarding such screening for a number of reasons, including until such time as our Version 2 colorectal cancer screening technology is fully developed and adequately supported by clinical data, which could take several years, if it happens at all. Moreover, even if a recommendation is made to include stool-based DNA screening in guidelines, such inclusion could involve a recommendation for only our Version 1 technology, which may substantially limit adoption of stool-based DNA screening, or such recommendation could relate only to a narrow screening purpose or subset of the population, or for some other limited purpose or application of stool-DNA screening that does not provide for broad use of stool-DNA screening. If stool-based DNA screening is not included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines for broad and sufficiently frequent use within the population at the next anticipated meeting of the ACS/MSTF-CRC, or if inclusion or notification of inclusion in such screening guidelines is significantly delayed, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be materially adversely affected and our business direction may change. In such event, we could be required to further significantly curtail our operations. An adverse guidelines determination could also result in the impairment of the recorded value of our patent portfolio, which was ($0.8 million at December 31, 2006), or our fixed assets. In addition, in the event of an adverse guidelines determination, LabCorp could request payment of the third party royalty amount ($2.4 million at December 31, 2006) for which we are we contingently liable. See discussion of third party royalty contingent liability in note 9 to our consolidated financial statements included in this annual report of Form 10-K. We may never successfully commercialize any of our technologies or become profitable. We have incurred losses since we were formed and have had only modest product and royalty fee revenues since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus in August 2003. From our date of inception on February 10, 1995 through December 31, 2006, we have accumulated a total deficit of approximately $150.8 million. We expect that our losses will continue for at least the next several years and, depending upon our strategic direction, we may need to invest significant additional funds toward other areas in the oncology testing business. To achieve material demand for PreGen-Plus, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies, we believe that substantial funds will likely need to be invested in sales and marketing efforts over the next several years. In addition, the development of our Version 2 technology could require additional studies or FDA approval, either of which could involve significant time as well as research and development expenditures. Given our current levels of cash and revenues, and without raising additional capital, we will not be able to spend the amounts that we believe will likely be necessary to fund these investments and there can be no assurance that LabCorp will invest sufficient amounts in sales and marketing activities for PreGen-Plus. In addition, while we believe we are permitted, from a regulatory standpoint, to promote stool-based DNA testing services generically, our inability to market the brand “PreGen-Plus” under current FDA regulations, may limit our return on amounts that we have invested or may invest in sales and marketing activities. If our revenue does not grow significantly, we will not be profitable. We cannot assure you that the revenue from the sale of any of our technologies will be sufficient to make us profitable. Our future revenues will depend, in large part, upon whether PreGen-Plus is broadly ordered by medical practitioners and requested by patients. We believe that our ability to achieve the foregoing may be affected by the following: · the inclusion of stool-based DNA screening in general, including our Version 2 technology, in colorectal cancer screening guidelines of major guidelines organizations, including the ACS/MSTF-CRC; 14 · the positioning of stool-based DNA screening within guidelines such that it is not limited among the screening options offered; · the regulatory requirements for PreGen-Plus or Version 2, and the timing of any required regulatory filing and approval process; · whether LabCorp continues to offer PreGen-Plus commercially; · acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; · effective negotiation and contracting by LabCorp with Medicare and other third-party payors for coverage and reimbursement of PreGen-Plus; · whether payors issue favorable coverage policy for stool-based DNA screening if it is included in the screening guidelines of one or more, but not all, of the major guidelines organizations; · effective LabCorp sales and sales management personnel and processes to educate physician staffs regarding PreGen-Plus and patient compliance; · effective EXACT personnel to educate third-party payors, managed care organizations, and technology assessment groups regarding stool-based DNA screening; · patient acceptance of PreGen-Plus, including its novel sample collection process; · stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; and · the quality and service of the LabCorp testing process. Many of these factors are outside our control and, accordingly, we cannot assure you that one or more of the foregoing will occur in the near term, or at all. Failure to achieve one or more of the foregoing events could substantially impair our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability and will negatively impact the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies. Our inability to raise additional capital on acceptable terms in the future may limit our growth. We incurred substantial losses to date and we expect to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. We have no current sources of material ongoing revenue. As of December 31, 2006, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $150.8 million. We will have to raise additional funds to continue the development and commercialization of our technologies. Moreover, if we modify our business strategy to pursue other initiatives or technologies and are required to invest material amounts in the acquisition of these technologies, our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances could be reduced significantly. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the following: · the inclusion of stool-based DNA screening in colorectal cancer screening guidelines of major guidelines organizations, including the ACS/MSTF-CRC, and the timing thereof; · the regulatory requirements for PreGen-Plus, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies, and the timing of any required regulatory approval process; · acceptance, endorsement and formal policy approval of stool-based DNA screening for reimbursement by Medicare and other third-party payors; · our ability to achieve milestones under our strategic agreement with LabCorp; · a determination that additional studies surrounding our technologies are needed; · a sustained level of interest and commitment by LabCorp in the commercialization of PreGen-Plus; 15 · stool-based DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; · the scope of and progress made in our research and development activities; · the successful commercialization and sales growth of PreGen-Plus, or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies; and · a shift in our strategic direction or entry into new markets. Our inability to raise capital would seriously harm our business and development efforts. In addition, we may choose to raise additional capital due to market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operations. These funds may not be available on favorable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available on attractive terms, we may have to restrict our operations significantly or obtain funds by entering into agreements on unattractive terms. Further, to the extent that additional capital is raised through the sale of equity or convertible debt securities, the issuance of these securities could result in dilution to our stockholders. If we or LabCorp fail to comply with FDA requirements, we or LabCorp may be limited or prohibited in our ability to commercialize stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer and may be subject to stringent penalties. Since the commercial launch of PreGen-Plus, LabCorp has offered the testing service as an in-house developed laboratory test, or “homebrew” testing service. The FDA has historically exercised enforcement discretion with regard to such homebrew tests by not requiring FDA pre-market clearance or approval for such testing services. On September 7, 2006, however, the FDA issued a Draft Guidance Document in which the FDA said that “homebrew” tests were subject to FDA regulation as devices, and that the FDA would require pre-market clearance for certain types of homebrew tests involving the use of algorithms and scoring of results. Although we do not believe that the PreGen-Plus test represents the type of “algorithm-based” or “scoring” test to which this Draft Guidance Document refers, we cannot assure you that the FDA will view LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service, in whole or in part, as exempt from pre-market approval requirements. In addition, on January 13, 2006, the FDA sent correspondence to LabCorp with respect to the PreGen-Plus testing service, as well as the Effipure component used in processing PreGen-Plus tests, which indicated that PreGen-Plus is subject to FDA regulation as a medical device and that the device cannot be commercially distributed without an appropriate pre-market determination from the FDA. Pursuant to our and LabCorp’s subsequent discussions with the FDA, we and LabCorp agreed, among other things, to revise our promotional activities with respect to LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service. In addition, LabCorp offered to eliminate its use of Effipure in processing PreGen-Plus tests. We believe that LabCorp intends to continue to market, sell and process the PreGen-Plus test as a “homebrew” testing service. If the FDA does not view LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service as exempt from pre-market approval, LabCorp’s use of PreGen-Plus could be delayed, halted or prevented and enforcement action could be initiated which could involve criminal or civil penalties, any of which would impair the commercialization of PreGen-Plus and materially harm our business. Moreover, if the FDA were to determine that any of our technologies or other materials that we provide and are used in connection with LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service require pre-market approval or clearance, we would be subject to a number of FDA requirements, including compliance with the September 7, 2006 Draft Guidance Document or restrictions regarding performance claims as well as the FDA’s Quality System Regulation, which establishes extensive regulations for quality assurance and control as well as manufacturing procedures. Failure to comply with these regulations could result in enforcement action against us, our partners, or our contract manufacturers. Adverse FDA action in any of these areas, including, for example, requiring pre-market approval or clearance for PreGen-Plus or any element that comprises PreGen-Plus, could cause material interruption in LabCorp’s ability to continue offering the PreGen-Plus testing service and could significantly increase our expenses and limit our revenue and profitability. 16 Our ability to generate revenue depends on LabCorp’s commercial sales of PreGen-Plus. All of our current operating revenue is dependent upon LabCorp’s commercial sales of PreGen-Plus. We cannot assure you that LabCorp will be successful in achieving sufficient sales of PreGen-Plus for us to become profitable, nor can we be certain that LabCorp, in light of FDA regulatory action or otherwise, will keep PreGen-Plus on the market. If LabCorp is unsuccessful in increasing sales of PreGen-Plus, our revenues will be limited and our ability to become profitable will be materially adversely affected. We cannot control whether LabCorp will devote sufficient resources to PreGen-Plus under our strategic agreement or whether it will elect to pursue the development or commercialization of newer versions of stool-based DNA testing or competing products or services. Any failure of the LabCorp sales force to give continued and sustained focus to PreGen-Plus could harm the demand creation for PreGen-Plus and, in turn, could materially adversely affect our revenues and delay any performance-based payments for which we might otherwise be eligible, based on substantial sales volumes, under our strategic agreement with LabCorp. Any change in the senior management or organizational structure within LabCorp or us, could also negatively impact our ability to successfully commercialize PreGen-Plus. Further, laboratory operating factors incurred at LabCorp such as turnaround times for the testing process, possible pre- and post-analytical sample and sample processing deficiencies and efforts to obtain third-party reimbursement all influence the rate of market adoption of PreGen-Plus. If LabCorp encounters difficulty performing PreGen-Plus tests on an accurate and timely basis or has difficulty obtaining reimbursement, our revenue could be materially and adversely affected. Future demand for the PreGen-Plus test may require LabCorp to further optimize operational and quality assurance processes to support commercial testing. No assurance can be given that such improvements will be successfully implemented by LabCorp, and failure to do so could adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. Our business is substantially dependent on the success of our strategic agreement with LabCorp. We have a strategic alliance with LabCorp, under which we licensed to LabCorp certain of our technologies, including improvements to such technologies, that are required for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus. The license to LabCorp is exclusive within the United States and Canada for a five-year term followed by a non-exclusive license for the life of the underlying patents. LabCorp has the ability to terminate this agreement for, among other things, a material breach by us. If LabCorp were to terminate the agreement, fail to meet its obligations under the agreement, decide to stop processing PreGen-Plus commercially, or otherwise decrease its commitment to PreGen-Plus, our revenues would be materially adversely affected, the commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be interrupted and we could become insolvent. We cannot guarantee that we would be able to enter into a similar agreement with another company to commercialize this technology. Moreover, if we do not achieve certain milestones, or LabCorp does not achieve certain revenue and performance thresholds within the time periods prescribed in the agreement, we may not fully realize the expected benefits of the agreement. In January 2004, we and LabCorp amended our license agreement to, among other things, restructure certain product development milestones. Although this amendment did not change the $45 million of total milestone payments that we may be eligible to receive under the agreement, it modified the targets set for achievement of these milestones and, as such, made it more difficult for us to fully realize these payments if LabCorp is unable to achieve significant revenue thresholds with respect to its sales of PreGen-Plus or if we are unable to obtain clinical guideline acceptance and policy-level reimbursement approvals for PreGen-Plus. For example, if colorectal cancer screening guidelines are updated in 2007 to include only a particular version of our technology, LabCorp may decide to stop offering PreGen-Plus commercially, in which case our business and ability to generate revenues would be materially and adversely affected. To accomplish our long-term business objectives, we may be required to enter into additional amendments to our license agreement with LabCorp. For instance, we are currently in discussions that could result in an amendment to the license agreement. We cannot assure you that our prior amendment, 17 these recent discussions or other strategic initiatives with LabCorp will accomplish the long-term goals of either party. If one or more additional amendments to our agreement with LabCorp become necessary as a result of the continuing evolution of PreGen-Plus, developments in our relationship with LabCorp or otherwise, we cannot assure you that any such amendment could be entered into on favorable terms, if at all. Disagreements with LabCorp could delay or terminate the continued commercialization of PreGen-Plus by LabCorp or result in litigation or arbitration, any of which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Moreover, if we are unsuccessful in managing our strategic relationship with LabCorp, we would be required to enter into other strategic relationships for the commercialization of PreGen-Plus or attempt to commercialize the testing service ourselves. We cannot assure you that we would be able to license our technology to another commercial laboratory or otherwise successfully commercialize the testing service, and our failure to do either of the foregoing would materially and adversely affect our ability to generate revenues. If Medicare and other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, do not issue positive policy decisions approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised. Many physicians may decide not to order colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies unless the tests are adequately reimbursed by third-party payors, including Medicare. There is significant uncertainty concerning third-party reimbursement for the use of tests incorporating new technology. Reimbursement by a third-party payor may depend on a number of factors, including a payor’s determination that tests using our technologies are: sensitive for colorectal cancer; not experimental or investigational; approved by the major guidelines organizations; reliable, safe and effective, medically necessary; appropriate for the specific patient and cost-effective. Currently, no third-party payors have issued broad formal policy approving payment for stool-based DNA testing. Furthermore, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services have not yet approved stool-based DNA testing for colorectal cancer for payment, CMS has not yet accepted our request for a National Coverage Determination and CMS has sought additional information regarding PreGen-Plus, which has delayed our application’s acceptance. Neither we nor LabCorp has secured any broad-based policy-level reimbursement approval from Medicare or a sufficient amount of third-party payors to ensure the long-term commercial success of PreGen-Plus. For example, although PreGen-Plus received a favorable review from the California Technology Assessment Forum, a unit of the Blue Shield of California Foundation, in March 2005, this review has not resulted in any policy-level reimbursement approval by Blue Shield of California. Moreover, several Blue Shield plans across the country have declined to issue positive reimbursement policy for PreGen-Plus at this time. If we or LabCorp are unable to obtain a positive policy decision from CMS or other third-party payors, including managed care organizations, approving reimbursement for PreGen-Plus, the commercial success of PreGen-Plus would be compromised and our revenues would be significantly limited. Our business would suffer if we, or LabCorp, are unable to license certain technologies or obtain raw materials and components or if certain of our licenses were terminated. LabCorp’s current configuration of PreGen-Plus requires access to certain technologies and supplies of raw materials, including elements relating to the Effipure microtiter plates, for which licensing and supply agreements are required. Similarly, the commercialization of the next generation of our stool-based DNA screening technology, or Version 2, will require that we or LabCorp license certain third-party intellectual property. There can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, can obtain these technologies and raw materials on acceptable terms, if at all. Although LabCorp recently indicated to the FDA that it is working on changes to PreGen-Plus that could eliminate the use of Effipure in processing PreGen-Plus tests, we cannot assure that it will be able to replace Effipure or that any substitute technology will have comparable performance. There also can be no assurance that existing Effipure inventory levels will be 18 sufficient to support the processing of PreGen-Plus tests for the period of time necessary for LabCorp to replace Effipure in commercial use. Failure to transition to a new and effective DNA capture technology could have a material adverse affect on the processing of PreGen-Plus and on our business. In the event LabCorp is able to identify a new DNA capture technology for use in connection with PreGen-Plus, any such technology may require us or LabCorp to pay additional royalties or other fees to third parties, which would have an adverse affect on our revenues or gross margin. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that any current contractual arrangements between us and third parties, us and LabCorp, LabCorp and vendors in the DNA capture component supply chain, or between our strategic partners and other third parties, will be continued, or not breached or terminated early, or that we or LabCorp will be able to enter into any future relationships necessary to the continued commercial sale of PreGen-Plus or necessary to our realization of material revenues. Any failure to obtain necessary technologies or raw materials could require PreGen-Plus to be re-configured which could interrupt the testing service entirely, negatively impact its commercial sale and increase the costs associated with PreGen-Plus, any one of which could have a material adverse affect on our revenues and gross margin, respectively. If we cannot successfully amend our license agreement with LabCorp, we may be required to reimburse LabCorp for past ($2.4 million as of December 31, 2006), and future amounts (up to an additional $1.8 million) in connection with royalty payments made by LabCorp to a third party in order to secure intellectual property required to run PreGen-Plus. LabCorp currently maintains a license with a third party for access to certain intellectual property that is integrated as part of the PreGen-Plus testing process. Under the terms of our amended license agreement with LabCorp, we are contingently liable to reimburse LabCorp for a portion of certain fixed, third-party royalty payments made by LabCorp to this third party based on sales volume of PreGen-Plus over the exclusive period of the license agreement, which terminates on August 13, 2008. As of December 31, 2006, the potential reimbursement to LabCorp was $2.4 million. Although a significant increase in PreGen-Plus test sales volumes through August 13, 2008, could reduce this obligation, potentially to zero, test volumes consistent with historical PreGen-Plus sales levels would result in an increase, rather than a decrease, in the amounts payable to LabCorp of up to an additional $1.8 million, bringing the total potential royalty amount to $4.2 million. In addition, if stool-based DNA screening for colorectal cancer is not included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines of the major guidelines organizations, LabCorp may request payment of the outstanding third party royalty amount. LabCorp has not requested reimbursement of this royalty amount under the license agreement and we are currently in discussions with LabCorp regarding the terms of the license agreement, including our contingent liability for such reimbursement. There can be no assurance that sales volumes will increase to a level necessary to materially reduce this obligation to LabCorp nor can there be any assurance that we will be able to successfully negotiate an amendment to the license agreement that would eliminate our contingent liability to pay the amounts described above. If our clinical studies do not prove the superiority, reliability, or effectiveness of stool-based DNA testing, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of guidelines writers to include stool-based DNA testing within screening guidelines as well as a reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests based on PreGen-Plus. If the results of our research and clinical studies do not convince third party payors, physicians, thought leaders and colorectal cancer screening guideline writers of the clinical value of PreGen-Plus or other stool-based DNA testing services utilizing our technologies, we and LabCorp may never successfully commercialize such testing services and, as a consequence, we may not be able to remain a viable business. For instance, the point sensitivity from our 5,500 asymptomatic multi-center study in 2003 was lower than that seen in our previous research and clinical studies. Moreover, in connection with a preliminary review of data from a study conducted by the Mayo Clinic of the original bead-based version of our technology Hemoccult II and Hemoccult Sensa appeared to have outperformed, at a preliminary stage, our original technology in the detection of cancer among the thirteen cancer samples collected in the study up to that 19 point. We believe that the sample collection protocols used in this study, which were the same as those used in our multi-center study, resulted in DNA degradation that, in turn, resulted in lower sensitivity of our technology. Thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, payors and others may, despite the small sample size referenced above, assign significance to this preliminary data, especially if published by the NCI or Mayo Clinic, which may significantly adversely affect continued commercialization of the testing service. In addition, in a recent research study that we conducted, designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool, Version 2 of our stool-based DNA screening technology demonstrated sensitivity and specificity results of 88% and 82%, respectively for detecting colorectal cancer. While previous published studies for stool-based DNA screening have generally shown specificity above 90%, the specificity results of 82%, may not be deemed clinically or commercially acceptable. There can be no assurance that the overall performance characteristics, or that the design of the Version 2 research study, will be viewed favorably by thought-leaders, physicians, and consumers or that LabCorp will be able to achieve similar levels of performance in future versions of its PreGen-Plus testing service. The blinded study was designed to test the efficacy of technological advances to enhance colorectal cancer detection in stool. This study involved the analysis of cancer samples from individuals whose colonoscopy results were positive for colorectal cancer. By contrast, our multi-center study, published in the New England Journal of Medicine in 2004, was comprised of cancer samples from an asymptomatic population. There can be no assurance that the population from which the cancer samples were obtained for the Version 2 study will be viewed as sufficient to support clinical or market acceptance of the Version 2 research study results. If the results of our research and clinical studies, including the results of the Mayo Clinic study (especially in contrast to the results of the 2003 multi-center study referenced above), do not convince thought-leading gastroenterologists, guidelines organizations, primary care physicians, third party payors and patients that tests using our technologies are reliable, effective and/or superior to existing screening methods, including Hemoccult II, Hemoccult Sensa and immunochemical FOBT, or show that our technologies are superior but not by a large enough margin to affect prevailing clinical practice, we may experience reluctance or refusal on the part of screening guidelines writers to include stool-based DNA screening in such guidelines, including within the guidelines of the ACS/MSTF-CRC, as well as a reluctance or refusal on the part of physicians to order, and third-party payors to pay for tests using our technologies, which could slow the demand for, and successful commercialization of, PreGen-Plus. If PreGen-Plus cannot be effectively sold at a price acceptable to the market or acceptable to the writers of screening guidelines, the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus would be materially harmed. The success of PreGen-Plus, and future versions of PreGen-Plus depends, in material part, on the ability of LabCorp to price the test at a level acceptable to consumers, physicians, third-party payors, and the writers of colorectal cancer screening guidelines. Currently, screening for colorectal cancer using our technologies is more expensive than FOBT because it is labor-intensive and uses highly complex processes and expensive reagents. The price differential between stool-based DNA testing and FOBT, when compared with the performance differential between the two screening modalities, may be viewed as too significant to endorse stool-based DNA screening for guidelines inclusion. In order to make PreGen-Plus less costly and more commercially attractive to consumers, physicians, third party payors, and guidelines writers, LabCorp will need to reduce the costs of tests using our technologies through significant automation of key operational processes or other cost savings procedures. There can be no assurance that such parties, including Medicare, will pay for PreGen-Plus at levels that will enable us to earn a profit, if at all and there can be no assurance that stool-based DNA testing will be included within screening guidelines, regardless of the performance of the technology. If LabCorp fails to create and improve technologies that sufficiently reduce costs, LabCorp’s sales of PreGen-Plus and, as a result, our revenues may be limited. Moreover, if LabCorp is unable to sell a sufficient number of tests at favorable pricing levels, we will not be successful and we may not be able to remain viable as a company. 20 If our or LabCorp’s technological advancements do not increase the performance of PreGen-Plus in a cost effective manner, the demand for PreGen-Plus may be negatively impacted. We continue to work to improve the performance characteristics of stool-based DNA testing through research on technical innovations. However, there can be no assurance that future generations of PreGen-Plus, or the commercial version of the PreGen-Plus test currently offered by LabCorp will have sufficient sensitivity and specificity or performance to be commercially successful. There also can be no assurance that the sample handling protocols employed by LabCorp for PreGen-Plus are adequate to prevent DNA degradation and resulting negative impacts on test performance. If the current commercial version or future generations of the PreGen-Plus test do not demonstrate a sufficiently significant increase in the sensitivity or performance over that of the original technology in a cost effective manner, sufficient demand for our stool-based DNA screening technologies may never be realized or such demand could be significantly reduced, either of which would have a material adverse affect on our revenues. If an insufficient number of medical practitioners order and reorder tests using our technologies, our revenue and profitability will be limited. If a sufficient number of medical practitioners are not convinced to order and reorder PreGen-Plus, we will not become profitable. An important element to the successful commercialization of PreGen-Plus is the inclusion of stool-based DNA testing in colorectal cancer screening guidelines, including the guidelines of the ACS/MSTF-CRC. Gastroenterologists and primary care physicians will have to be made aware of the benefits of stool-based DNA testing through published papers, presentations at scientific conferences, favorable results from clinical studies and obtaining reimbursement from insurers. Our failure to be successful in these efforts or to be included within colorectal cancer screening guidelines would make it difficult to convince medical practitioners to order and reorder PreGen-Plus for their patients which would limit our revenues and materially adversely affect our business. We may experience limits on our revenue if only a small number of people decide to be screened for colorectal cancer using our technologies. Even if our technologies are superior to other colorectal cancer screening options, adequate third-party reimbursement is obtained and we convince medical practitioners to order tests using our technologies, only a small number of people may decide to be screened for colorectal cancer. Despite the availability of current colorectal cancer screening methods as well as the recommendations of the ACS that all Americans over the age of 50 be screened for colorectal cancer, a majority of these individuals do not complete a colorectal cancer screening test. If only a small portion of the recommended population is regularly screened for colorectal cancer or decides to utilize colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies, we will, despite our efforts, experience limits on our revenue and our business would be materially harmed. We may be subject to substantial costs and liability or be prevented from licensing our technologies for cancer detection as a result of litigation or other proceedings relating to patent rights. Third parties may assert infringement or other intellectual property claims against our licensors, our licensees, our suppliers, our strategic partners, or us. We pursue a patent strategy that we believe provides us with a competitive advantage in the non-invasive early detection of colorectal cancer and is designed to maximize our patent protection against third parties in the U.S. and, potentially, in certain foreign countries. We have filed patent applications that we believe cover methods we have designed to help detect colorectal cancer and other cancers. In order to protect or enforce our patent rights, we may have to initiate actions against third parties. Any actions regarding patents could be costly and time-consuming, and divert our management and key personnel from our business. Additionally, such actions could result in challenges to the validity or applicability of our patents. Because the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office maintains patent applications in secrecy until a patent application publishes or the patent is issued, others may have filed patent applications covering technology used by us or our partners. Additionally, there may 21 be third-party patents, patent applications and other intellectual property relevant to our technologies that may block or compete with our technologies. Even if third-party claims are without merit, defending a lawsuit may result in substantial expense to us and may divert the attention of management and key personnel. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that we would prevail in any of these suits or that the damages or other remedies, if any, awarded against us would not be substantial. Claims of intellectual property infringement may require that we, or our strategic partners, enter into royalty or license agreements with third parties that may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. These claims may also result in injunctions against the further development and commercial sale of PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse affect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Also, patents and applications owned by us may become the subject of interference proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office to determine priority of invention, which could result in substantial cost to us, as well as a possible adverse decision as to the priority of invention of the patent or patent application involved. An adverse decision in an interference proceeding may result in the loss of rights under a patent or patent application subject to such a proceeding. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property effectively, we may be unable to prevent third parties from using our intellectual property, which would impair our competitive advantage. We rely on patent protection as well as a combination of trademark, copyright and trade secret protection, and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technologies, all of which provide limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. If we fail to protect our intellectual property, we will be unable to prevent third parties from using our technologies and they will be able to compete more effectively against us. As of December 31, 2006 we have 37 issued patents and 18 pending patent applications in the United States and we also have 75 issued foreign patents and 49 pending foreign patent applications. We cannot assure you that any of our currently pending or future patent applications will result in issued patents, and we cannot predict how long it will take for such patents to be issued. Further, we cannot assure you that other parties will not challenge any patents issued to us, or that courts or regulatory agencies will hold our patents to be valid or enforceable. A third party has opposed one of our issued European patents relating to the enumerative analysis of nucleic acids in biological samples. A third-party institution is a co-owner of one of our issued patents relating to pooling patient samples in connection with our loss of heterozygosity detection method. We cannot guarantee you that we will be successful in defending challenges made in connection with our patents and patent applications. Any successful third-party challenge to our patents could result in co-ownership of such patents with a third party or the unenforceability or invalidity of such patents. In addition, we have jointly filed and jointly own, with a third party institution, a pending US patent application and a PCT patent application that has been nationalized and is pending in Canada, Europe, and Japan, which patent applications relate to the use of various DNA markers, including one of our detection methods, to detect cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, bile duct, naso-oro-pharyngeal airways, liver, and gall bladder in stool. As joint owners of these patent applications, both we and the third party institution have the rights provided to joint owners under applicable patent law, including the right to use, transfer, and license the patent rights. In addition to our patents, we rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. We require our employees and third parties to sign confidentiality agreements and employees to sign agreements assigning to us all intellectual property arising from their work for us. Nevertheless, we cannot guarantee that these measures will be effective in protecting our intellectual property rights. We cannot guarantee that the patents issued to us will be broad enough to provide any meaningful protection nor can we assure you that one of our competitors may not develop more effective technologies, designs or methods to test for colorectal cancer or any other common cancer without infringing our intellectual property rights or that one of our competitors might not design around our proprietary technologies. 22 Other companies may develop and market novel or improved methods for detecting colorectal cancer, which may make our technologies less competitive, or even obsolete. The market for colorectal cancer screening is large, approximating 87 million Americans age 50 and above, of which we believe approximately one-half fail to strictly follow the ACS’s screening guidelines for colorectal cancer. As a result, the colorectal cancer screening market has attracted competitors, some of which have significantly greater resources than we have. Currently, we face competition from procedure-based detection technologies such as flexible sigmoidoscopy, colonoscopy and virtual colonoscopy, a procedure being performed in which a radiologist views the inside of the colon through a scanner, as well as from existing guaic based fecal occult blood testing, or FOBT, and improved screening tests such as immunochemical FOBT. In addition, some companies and institutions are developing serum-based tests, or screening tests based on the detection of proteins, nucleic acids or the presence of fragments of mutated genes in the blood that are produced by colon cancer. These and other companies may also be working on additional methods of detecting colon cancer that have not yet been announced. We may be unable to compete effectively against these competitors either because their test is superior or because they may have more expertise, experience, financial resources and stronger business relationships. We rely on third-party contract manufacturers and suppliers and may experience a scarcity of raw materials and components. We have historically relied on contract manufacturers and suppliers for certain components for our technologies. We believe that there are relatively few manufacturers that are currently capable of supplying commercial quantities of the raw materials and components necessary for certain elements used in LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service. Although we have identified suppliers that we believe are capable of supplying these raw materials and components in sufficient quantity today, there can be no assurance that we, or LabCorp, will be able to enter into or maintain these agreements and relationships with such suppliers on a timely basis on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, prior to August 2003, stool-based DNA testing had never been offered on a commercial scale, and there can be no assurance that the raw materials and components necessary to meet demand will be available in sufficient quantities or on acceptable terms, if at all. If we, or LabCorp, should encounter delays or difficulties in securing the necessary raw materials and components for LabCorp’s PreGen-Plus testing service, LabCorp may need to reconfigure its PreGen-Plus testing service which would result in delays in commercialization or an interruption in sales and would materially adversely impact our revenues. If we or our partners fail to comply with regulatory requirements, we may be subject to stringent penalties and our business may be materially adversely affected. The marketing and sale of PreGen-Plus is subject to various state, federal and foreign regulations. We cannot assure you that we or our strategic partners will be able to comply with applicable regulations and regulatory guidelines. If we or our partners fail to comply with any such applicable regulations and guidelines, we could incur significant liability and/or our partners could be forced to cease offering PreGen-Plus in certain jurisdictions. Also, conforming the marketing and sale of our technologies to any applicable regulations and guidelines could substantially increase our operating expenses. In addition, LabCorp and any other laboratory that uses PreGen-Plus are subject to the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is a federal law which regulates clinical laboratories that perform testing on specimens derived from humans for the purpose of providing information for the diagnosis, prevention or treatment of disease. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of clinical laboratories in the U.S. by mandating specific standards in the areas of personnel qualifications, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. If LabCorp were to lose its CLIA certification, it may no longer be able to offer PreGen-Plus, which would have a material adverse affect on our business. Moreover, healthcare policy has been a subject of extensive discussion in the executive and legislative branches of the federal and many state governments. Development of the existing commercialization strategy for PreGen-Plus has been based on existing healthcare policies. Changes in healthcare policy 23 could substantially interrupt the sales of PreGen-Plus, increase costs, and divert management’s attention. We cannot predict what changes, if any, will be proposed or adopted or the effect that such proposals or adoption may have on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The loss of key members of our senior management team could adversely affect our business. Our success depends largely on the skills, experience and performance of key members of our senior management team, including Don M. Hardison, our President and Chief Executive Officer. We have recently entered into an employment agreement with Mr. Hardison with an initial term through June 27, 2008, which provides for certain retention bonuses for his continued employment with the Company through such term. Notwithstanding this agreement, Mr. Hardison may terminate his relationship with us at any time. The efforts of Mr. Hardison will be critical to us as we continue to pursue our business goals. In addition, in October 2006 we reduced our workforce by 21 employees, or 48% of our staff. Although we have entered into retention agreements with our remaining officers and employees following the restructuring, if we were to lose any of these remaining officers or key employees, we may experience difficulties in competing effectively, developing our technologies and implementing our business strategies. If we are unable to attract the expertise necessary to develop and seek regulatory approval for an in vitro diagnostic kit, we may not be able to bring more advanced technologies to market. Recently we announced research results on Version 2 of our stool-based DNA screening technology that was realized utilizing a marker panel comprised of only two markers. We may seek to configure this test as an in vitro diagnostic kit and seek regulatory approval with the FDA. There can be no assurance that we will be able to hire the personnel necessary to develop this product, that we will have the clinical data necessary and sufficient to support an FDA filing, or that an FDA filing on such a product will ultimately be approved. If we cannot execute successfully in these areas, our introduction and commercialization of Version 2 of our technology may be delayed or may never occur. Moreover, transferring Version 2 from the laboratory to the commercial setting will require the negotiation and licensing of necessary third-party intellectual property as well as the likelihood of additional technical and clinical validations of the technology. There can be no assurance that such clinical or technical validations will be consistent with the above research results, that the Version 2 technology will perform equally well in all patient populations and segments, or that such technical and clinical validations will support the commercial introduction of Version 2. Moreover, there can be no assurance that the third-party intellectual property that is needed to commercially launch Version 2 can be obtained on favorable terms, if at all. Our stock price may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated widely. Consequently, the current market price of our common stock may not be indicative of future market prices and we may be unable to sustain or increase the value of an investment in our common stock. Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol “EXAS.” Factors affecting our stock price may include: · whether stool-based DNA screening is included in colorectal cancer screening guidelines, its positioning within those guidelines and the timing of any such inclusion; · FDA regulation of our or LabCorp’s products and services; · technological innovations or new products and services by us or our competitors; · clinical trial results relating to the PreGen-Plus test, stool-based DNA testing in general, or technologies of our competitors; · stool DNA screening becoming a standard of care among prescribing physicians; 24 · reimbursement decisions by Medicare and other third party payors; · the establishment of collaborative partnerships; · health care legislation; · intellectual property disputes and other litigation; · additions or departures of key personnel; · the performance characteristics of our technologies; · general market conditions; · the rate of market acceptance of PreGen-Plus; and · sales of our common stock or debt securities. Because we are a company with no significant operating revenue, you may consider any one of these factors to be material. Our operating results may fluctuate, which may adversely affect our share price. Fluctuations in our operating results may lead to fluctuations, including declines, in our share price. Our operating results may fluctuate from period to period due to a variety of factors, including: · demand by physicians and consumers for PreGen-Plus; · new technology introductions; · reimbursement acceptance success; · changes in our agreement with LabCorp; · the number and timing of milestones that we achieve may under collaborative agreements; · impairment of our intellectual property; · the level of our development activity conducted for, and our success in commercializing these developments; and · the level of our spending on PreGen-Plus commercialization efforts, licensing and acquisition initiatives, clinical studies, and internal research and development. Variations in the timing of our future revenue and expenses could also cause significant fluctuations in our operating results from period to period and may result in unanticipated earning shortfalls or losses. In addition, The NASDAQ Global Market in general, and the market for biotechnology companies in particular, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. If we lose the support of our key scientific collaborators, it may be difficult to establish tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which may limit our revenue growth and profitability. We have established relationships with leading scientists, including members of our scientific advisory board, and research and academic institutions, such as Mayo Clinic, John Hopkins University and Case Western Reserve University, that we believe are key to establishing tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening. If our collaborators determine that colorectal cancer screening tests using our technologies are not appropriate options for colorectal cancer screening, or superior to available colorectal cancer screening tests, or that alternative technologies would be more effective in the early detection of colorectal cancer, we would encounter significant difficulty establishing 25 tests using our technologies as a standard of care for colorectal cancer screening, which would limit our revenue growth and profitability. Our inability to apply our proprietary technologies successfully to detect other common cancers may limit our future revenue growth and profitability. While, to date, we have focused substantially all of our research and development efforts on colorectal cancer, we have used our technologies to detect cancers of the lung, pancreas, esophagus, stomach and gall bladder. In the future, we intend to evaluate and potentially extend our technology platform to the development of screening tests for these or other common cancers. To do so, we may need to overcome technological challenges to develop reliable screening tests for these cancers. There can be no assurance that our technologies will be capable of reliably detecting cancers, beyond colorectal cancer, with the sensitivity and specificity necessary to be clinically and commercially useful for such other cancers, or that we can develop such technologies at all. We may never realize any commercial benefit from our research and development activities. Product liability suits against us could result in expensive and time-consuming litigation, payment of substantial damages and increases in our insurance rates. The sale and use of products or services based on our technologies, or activities related to our research and clinical studies, could lead to the filing of product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect which resulted in the failure to detect the disease for which it was designed. A product liability claim could result in substantial damages and be costly and time consuming to defend, either of which could materially harm our business or financial condition. We cannot assure you that our product liability insurance would protect our assets from the financial impact of defending a product liability claim. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could increase our product liability insurance rates or prevent us from securing insurance coverage in the future. Certain provisions of our charter, by-laws and Delaware law may make it difficult for you to change our management and may also make a takeover difficult. Our corporate documents and Delaware law contain provisions that limit the ability of stockholders to change our management and may also enable our management to resist a takeover. These provisions include a staggered board of directors, limitations on persons authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders and advance notice procedures required for stockholders to make nominations of candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These provisions might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control in our management. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors and cause us to take other corporate actions. In addition, the existence of these provisions, together with Delaware law, might hinder or delay an attempted takeover other than through negotiations with our board of directors. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 