ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below and other information included in this Form 10-K in evaluating us and our business. If any of the events described below occur, our business and financial results could be adversely affected in a material way. This could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline, perhaps significantly. We may not be able to effectively integrate newly acquired businesses into our operations or achieve expected profitability from our acquisitions. Our growth strategy includes acquiring other distributors of roofing materials and complementary products. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including: ·unforeseen difficulties in integrating operations, technologies, services, accounting and personnel; ·diversion of financial and management resources from existing operations; ·unforeseen difficulties related to entering geographic regions where we do not have prior experience; ·potential loss of key employees; ·unforeseen liabilities associated with businesses acquired; and ·inability to generate sufficient revenue to offset acquisition or investment costs. As a result, if we fail to evaluate and execute acquisitions properly, we might not achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions and we may incur costs in excess of what we anticipate. These risks would likely be greater in the case of larger acquisitions. We may not be able to successfully identify acquisition candidates, which would slow our growth rate. We continually seek additional acquisition candidates in selected markets and from time to time engage in exploratory discussions with potential candidates. If we are not successful in finding attractive acquisition candidates whom we can acquire on satisfactory terms, or if we cannot complete acquisitions that we identify, it is unlikely that we will sustain the historical growth rates of our business. An inability to obtain the products that we distribute could result in lost revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. We distribute roofing and other exterior building materials that are manufactured by a number of major suppliers. Although we believe that our relationships with our suppliers are strong and that we would have access to similar products from competing suppliers should products be unavailable from current sources, any disruption in our sources of supply, particularly of the most commonly sold items, could result in a loss of revenues and reduced margins and damage relationships with customers. Supply shortages may occur as a result of unanticipated demand or production or delivery difficulties. When shortages occur, roofing material suppliers often allocate products among distributors. Loss of key personnel or our inability to attract and retain new qualified personnel could hurt our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success will continue to depend to a significant extent on our executive officers and key management personnel, including our divisional executive vice presidents and regional vice presidents. We do not have key man life insurance covering any of our executive officers. We may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. The loss of any of our executive officers or other key management personnel, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could hurt our ability to operate and make it difficult to execute our acquisition and internal growth strategies. A change in vendor pricing could adversely affect our income and gross margins. Many of the products that we distribute are subject to price changes based upon manufacturers’ raw material costs and other manufacturer pricing decisions. Although we often are able to pass on manufacturers’ price increases, our ability to pass on increases in costs depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower operating margins. In addition, higher prices could impact demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes. 12 A change in vendor rebates could adversely affect our income and gross margins. The terms on which we purchase product from many of our vendors entitle us to receive a rebate based on the volume of our purchases. These rebates effectively reduce our costs for products. If market conditions change, vendors may adversely change the terms of some or all of these programs. Although these changes would not affect the net recorded costs of product already purchased, it may lower our gross margins on products we sell and therefore the income we realize on such sales in future periods. Cyclicality in our business could result in lower revenues and reduced profitability. We sell a portion of our products for new residential and non-residential construction. The strength of these markets depends on new housing starts and business investment, which are a function of many factors beyond our control, including credit and capital availability, interest rates, employment levels and consumer confidence. Economic downturns in the regions and markets we serve could result in lower revenues and, since many of our expenses are fixed, lower profitability. The challenging economic conditions in recent years, including tighter credit markets, influenced new residential and commercial projects and, to a lesser extent, re-roofing projects, and may continue to negatively affect expenditures for roofing in the near term. Seasonality in the construction and re-roofing industry generally results in second quarter losses. Our second quarter is typically affected adversely by winter construction cycles and cold weather patterns as the levels of activity in the new construction and re-roofing markets decrease. Because many of our expenses remain relatively fixed throughout the year, we generally record a loss during our second quarter. We expect that these seasonal variations will continue in the near future. If we encounter difficulties with our management information systems, we could experience problems with inventory, collections, customer service, cost control and business plan execution. We believe our management information systems are a competitive advantage in maintaining our leadership position in the roofing distribution industry. However, if we experience problems with our management information systems, we could experience, among other things, product shortages and/or an increase in accounts receivable aging. Any failure by us to properly maintain and protect our management information systems could adversely impact our ability to attract and serve customers and could cause us to incur higher operating costs and experience delays in the execution of our business plan. Since we rely heavily on information technology both in serving our customers and in our enterprise infrastructure in order to achieve our objectives, we may be vulnerable to damage or intrusion from a variety of cyber-attacks including computer viruses, worms or other malicious software programs that access our systems. Despite the precautions we take to mitigate the risks of such events, an attack on our enterprise information technology system could result in theft or disclosure of our proprietary or confidential information or a breach of confidential customer or employee information. Such events could have an adverse impact on revenue, harm our reputation, and cause us to incur legal liability and costs, which could be significant, to address and remediate such events and related security concerns. An impairment of goodwill and/or other intangible assets could reduce net income. Acquisitions frequently result in the recording of goodwill and other intangible assets. At September 30, 2014, goodwill represented approximately 33% of our total assets. Goodwill is not amortized for financial reporting purposes and is subject to impairment testing at least annually using a fair-value based approach. The identification and measurement of goodwill impairment involves the estimation of the fair value of our reporting units. Our accounting for impairment contains uncertainty because management must use judgment in determining appropriate assumptions to be used in the measurement of fair value. We determine the fair values of our reporting units by using both a market and income approach. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill for impairment in between our annual tests when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. Any impairment of goodwill will reduce net income in the period in which the impairment is recognized. 13 We might need to raise additional capital, which may not be available, thus limiting our growth prospects. We may require additional future equity or further debt financing in order to consummate an acquisition; for additional working capital for expansion; or if we suffer more than seasonally expected losses. In the event such additional equity or debt financing is unavailable to us, we may be unable to expand or make acquisitions and our stock price may decline as a result of the perception that we have more limited growth prospects. Major disruptions in the capital and credit markets may impact both the availability of credit and business conditions. If the financial institutions that have extended credit commitments to us are adversely affected by major disruptions in the capital and credit markets, they may become unable to fund borrowings under those credit commitments. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition since we need to borrow funds at times for working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures and other corporate purposes. Major disruptions in the capital and credit markets could also lead to broader economic downturns, which could result in lower demand for our products and increased incidence of customers’ inability to pay their accounts. Additional customer bankruptcies or similar events caused by such broader downturns may result in a higher level of bad debt expense than we have historically experienced. Also, our suppliers may potentially be impacted, causing potential disruptions or delays of product availability. These events would adversely impact our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 