ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Our business and operations are subject to a number of factors, risks and uncertainties, and the following list should not be considered to be a definitive list of all factors that may affect our business, financial condition and future results of operations and should be read in conjunction with the factors, risks and uncertainties contained in our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). This annual report on Form 10-K, our annual report to our shareholders, any of our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q or our current reports on Form 8-K, or any other oral or written statements which we may make in a news release or otherwise may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which involve certain risks and uncertainties. These forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of terms or phrases such as “intends,” “intend,” “intended,” “goal,” “estimate,” “estimates,” “expects,” “expect,” “expected,” “project,” “projected,” “projections,” “plans,” “seeks,” “anticipates,” “anticipated,” “should,” “could,” “may,” “will,” “designed to,” “foreseeable future,” “believe,” “believes,” and other similar expressions. We caution readers that any forward-looking statements made by us are made with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act and that a number of factors, including but not limited to those discussed below, could cause our actual results and experiences to differ materially from the anticipated results or expectations expressed in any forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as the result of new information, future events, or otherwise. We conduct business throughout the world and our results of operations may be impacted by fluctuations in trade volumes and by global, regional and local economic and political conditions. Our business is related to and dependent on general world economic conditions, and the local, regional, national and international conditions that affect trade in the specific regions or countries that we serve. We are affected by adjustments in our clients’ inventory levels, recessionary economic cycles and downturns in our clients’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries such as retail, apparel, pharmaceutical, chemical, automotive and high technology electronics, where we have a significant concentration of clients. Economic conditions, which may be affected by natural disasters, wars, civil unrest, acts of terrorism and other conflicts, and increases in energy prices may adversely affect the global economy, trade volumes, our clients’ demand for our services, their ability to pay for our services and our profitability. The consequences of any armed conflict are unpredictable, and we may not be able to foresee events that could have an adverse impact on our business. We expect that our revenue and results of operations will continue to be sensitive to global and regional economic and political conditions. Our international presence exposes us to potential difficulties and risks associated with distant operations and to various economic, regulatory, political and other uncertainties and risks. We conduct a majority of our business outside of the United States and we anticipate that revenue from foreign operations will continue to account for a significant amount of our future revenue. Our international operations are directly related to and dependent on the volume of trade and the social, economic and political conditions in various countries. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, approximately 56% of our net revenues were reported in our EMENA, Asia Pacific, Greater China, Africa and Global Specialized Solutions regions combined and those regions accounted for approximately 63% of our total assets as of January 31, 2008. Our international operations and international commerce are influenced by many factors, including: • changes in a specific country’s or region’s economic, social and political conditions or governmental policies, • changes in international and domestic customs regulations, • trade laws, tariffs, export quotas and other trade restrictions, • difficulties in staffing, managing or overseeing foreign operations over large geographic distances, including the need to implement appropriate systems, policies, benefits and compliance programs, • pricing restrictions and regulations imposed by foreign governments, • expropriation of our international assets or adverse changes in tax laws and regulations, 12 Table of Contents • limitations on the repatriation of earnings or assets, including cash, • different liability standards and less developed legal systems that may be less predictable than those in the United States, and • intellectual property laws of countries which do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The occurrence or consequences of any of these factors may restrict our ability to operate in the affected region and/or decrease the profitability of our operations in that region. Several United States and other foreign governmental agencies are investigating alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air cargo transportation industry, which includes us, we have been named as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit that alleges that we engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices, and we may become subject to other governmental investigations and may be named in additional litigation, all of which have required, and could require, significant management time and attention and could result in significant expenses as well as unfavorable outcomes which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, reputation, cash flow and prospects. The United States Department of Justice (U.S. DOJ) and several other governments, including the governments of Canada, New Zealand, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and South Africa, along with the European Union, have conducted inspections or raids at local offices of global freight forwarders or have issued subpoenas or requests for information in connection with various investigations into alleged anti-competitive behavior in the international air cargo transportation industry. In June 2007, we responded to a grand jury subpoena requesting documents in connection with the U.S. DOJ’s investigation into the pricing practices in the air cargo transportation industry which had been served on us in June 2006. In October 2007, the U.S. DOJ executed a search warrant on us at our offices in Long Beach, California, and served one of our subsidiaries with a grand jury subpoena requesting numerous documents and other materials in connection with its investigation of the international air cargo transportation industry. We believe that we are a subject of the U.S. DOJ investigation. In October 2007, we received a notice from the Canadian Competition Bureau that the Bureau had commenced an investigation with respect to alleged anti-competitive activities of persons involved in the provision of international freight forwarding services to and from Canada and requesting that we preserve records relevant to such investigation. In addition, also in October 2007, one of our subsidiaries received a notice from the New Zealand Commerce Commission that it was conducting an investigation in relation to international freight forwarding services in New Zealand and requesting that we provide documents and information as they relate to New Zealand. There can be no assurances that additional regulatory inquiries or investigations will not be commenced by other U.S. or foreign regulatory agencies. We do not know when or how these investigations will be resolved or what, if any, actions the various governmental agencies may require us and/or any of our current or former officers, directors and employees to take as part of that resolution. A conclusion by the U.S. DOJ or by another foreign regulatory agency that we have engaged in anti-competitive behavior or other unfavorable resolution of these investigations could result in criminal sanctions and/or fines against UTi and/or certain of our current or former officers, directors and employees. Dealing with investigations and regulatory inquiries can be time consuming and distracting from the conduct of our business. We have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, significant legal fees and other costs in connection with these governmental investigations. In addition, we have been named, along with seven other large European and North American-based global logistics providers, as a defendant in a federal antitrust class action lawsuit filed in January 2008. This lawsuit alleges that the defendants engaged in various forms of anti-competitive practices and seeks an unspecified amount of monetary damages and injunctive relief under U.S. antitrust laws. There can be no assurance that further lawsuits by parties who have allegedly suffered injury in connection with these allegations will not be filed in the future in the U.S. or in other jurisdictions or that additional civil litigation will not result from the pending or any future governmental investigations, including but not limited to, shareholder class action lawsuits. There are uncertainties associated with any litigation and the amount of time necessary to resolve these current and potentially future 13 Table of Contents lawsuits is uncertain, and these matters could require significant management and financial resources which could otherwise be devoted to the operation of our business. The resolution of the pending investigations by the U.S. DOJ and other foreign governmental agencies, dealing with any future domestic or foreign governmental investigations, the defense of our pending civil litigation, and the defense of any additional litigation that may arise relating to these matters could result in significant costs and expenses and the diversion of the attention of key employees. If any of the governmental investigations results in a determination adverse to us and/or our current or former officers, directors and employees or if we do not prevail in the civil litigation, we may be subject to criminal prosecution and substantial fines and penalties and liable for damages. Furthermore, any negative outcome or publicity that may occur from these investigations and litigation could impact our relationships with customers and our ability to generate revenue. These or other negative developments with respect to such governmental investigations or civil litigation could harm our business, operating results, cash flow, financial condition, reputation and prospects. We have grown and plan to grow, in part, through acquisitions of other freight forwarders, transportation management businesses, customs brokers, contract logistics providers, domestic transportation and supply chain management providers. Growth by acquisitions involves risks and we may not be able to identify or acquire companies consistent with our growth strategy or successfully integrate any acquired business into our operations. We have grown through acquisitions and we intend to continue pursuing opportunities to expand our business by acquiring other companies and business operations in the future. Acquisitions involve risks, including those relating to: • identification of appropriate acquisition candidates or negotiation of acquisitions on favorable terms and valuations, • integrating accounting management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management, • implementing or remediating controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies, • possible write-offs or impairment charges resulting from acquisitions, • diversion of management attention, • retention of employees and clients, and • unexpected or unanticipated costs, expenses and liabilities. Our strategy to grow in part through acquisitions may affect our short-term cash flow and net income as we expend funds, increase indebtedness and incur additional expenses in connection with pursuing acquisitions. We also may issue our ordinary shares or other securities from time to time as consideration for future acquisitions and investments. In the event any such acquisition or investment is significant, the number of our ordinary shares or other securities that we may issue could in turn be significant. In addition, we may also grant registration rights covering those ordinary shares or other securities in connection with any such acquisitions and investments. Acquisitions completed by us in the past have included contingent earn-out arrangements which provide for payments which may be made by us in cash which would reduce the amount of cash available to us or could cause us to incur additional indebtedness or cause us to issue additional shares resulting in an increase in the number of our outstanding shares. If we are not able to identify or acquire companies consistent with our growth strategy or if we fail to successfully integrate any acquired companies into our operations, we may not achieve anticipated increases in revenue, cost savings and economies of scale, and our operating results may be adversely affected. We have substantial outstanding indebtedness and our outstanding indebtedness could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. On July 13, 2006, we issued $200.0 million of senior unsecured guaranteed notes, which we refer to as the Senior Notes, pursuant to a note purchase agreement (Note Purchase Agreement) and we and certain of our direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into a $250.0 million Facility Agreement (Facility Agreement). Our indebtedness could have important consequences to us and our shareholders because we must dedicate funds to service our 14 Table of Contents outstanding debt which could limit our ability to use our operating cash flows in other areas of our business or such indebtedness may otherwise increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including movements in interest rates, as the interest rate payable pursuant to the Facility Agreement adjusts, and movements in currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Our indebtedness could also place us at a competitive disadvantage as compared to our competitors that have less debt as it could limit our ability to capitalize on future business opportunities and to react to competitive pressures or adverse changes. We may also be required to repay our outstanding debt prior to the originally scheduled dates of maturity. For example, if a “change of control” (as defined in the Note Purchase Agreement or the Facility Agreement) occurs, our outstanding indebtedness may be accelerated and we may not have enough funds to satisfy all of our outstanding obligations under the Senior Notes and the Facility Agreement. It is possible that we may not be able to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all and we may be required to sell our equity securities or take other actions necessary to repay our indebtedness. The Facility Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreement contain a variety of covenants imposing operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our operating and financial flexibility. Our failure to comply with such covenants could result in an event of default under both of these agreements. The Facility Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreement require that we maintain specified financial ratios and tests. In addition, the Facility Agreement and Note Purchase Agreement contain various covenants, including covenants customary for these types of financings. These covenants may restrict or may limit our ability to, among other things: • incur additional debt or pay dividends or distributions on our capital stock; • create liens or negative pledges with respect to our assets; • make certain acquisitions, investments, loans or advances or certain capital expenditures; • enter into agreements to lease real or personal property in excess of certain thresholds or to enter into sale and leaseback transactions; • change the general nature of our business; or • merge, consolidate or sell our assets. The covenants, financial ratios and tests in our debt instruments may adversely impact our ability to finance our future operations or pursue available business opportunities or future acquisitions, even if we believe such actions would otherwise be advantageous. Our ability to comply with these covenants, financial ratios and tests may be affected by events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in the competitive environment. We amended the Facility Agreement and the Note Purchase Agreement in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and subsequent to January 31, 2008, we also obtained waivers of certain covenants contained in the Facility Agreement and amended certain other covenants in the Facility Agreement. There can be no assurances that we will be able to obtain waivers or amendments to the Facility Agreement or the Note Purchase Agreement in the future. If we do not comply with these covenants and other requirements in the future and we are unable to obtain waivers from the holder of our Senior Notes or the lenders under the Facility Agreement, the interest and principal amounts outstanding under the Facility Agreement may become immediately due and payable. There can be no assurance that additional or replacement financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we are unable to obtain such additional or replacement financing, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. We may need additional financing to fund our operations and finance our growth and we will need replacement financing for our indebtedness, and we may not be able to obtain financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. We may require additional financing to fund our operations and our growth. In addition, when our existing $250.0 million credit facility expires in July 2009 and the Senior Notes become due and payable in 2011, we will need to obtain replacement financing. Additional or replacement financing may involve incurring debt or selling equity securities and there can be no assurance that additional or replacement financing will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. If we incur additional debt, the risks associated with our business could increase. If we raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities, the percentage ownership of our shareholders will be diluted. In addition, any new equity securities may have rights, preferences or privileges senior 15 Table of Contents to those of our ordinary shares. If we are unable to obtain additional or replacement financing, our ability to fund our operations and meet our current plans for expansion will be materially adversely affected. Our recently announced cost reduction measures may adversely affect our business or prospects and if such cost reduction measures are ineffective, our results of operations and profitability may be adversely impacted. As previously disclosed, we determined to undertake several cost reduction measures designed to streamline our operations and reduce our costs in response to slowing growth in our net revenue. These cost reduction measures include exiting selected non-performing operations, cancelling certain long-term initiatives, reducing the number of aircraft we charter, exiting an unprofitable contract arrangement, realigning corporate and regional functions and reducing our global workforce by approximately 6% by the end of the second fiscal quarter of fiscal 2009, as compared with our workforce at the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2008. There can be no assurance that these cost reduction measures, or any future cost reduction measures, will not adversely affect our business or prospects. The actual costs which we incur in connection with these measures could exceed our estimates. These cost reduction measures are expected to result in a reduction in our gross and net revenues and if these measures do not produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect, our results of operations and profitability may be adversely impacted. If we fail to develop and integrate information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose inventory items, orders or clients, which could seriously harm our business. Increasingly, we compete for clients based upon the flexibility, sophistication and security of the information technology systems supporting our services. The failure of the hardware or software that supports our information technology systems, the loss of data contained in the systems, or the inability to access or interact with our web site, could significantly disrupt our operations, prevent clients from placing orders, or cause us to lose inventory items, orders or clients. If our information technology systems are unable to handle additional volume for our operations as our business and scope of services grow, our service levels, operating efficiency and future transaction volumes will decline. In addition, we expect clients to continue to demand more sophisticated, fully integrated information technology systems from their supply chain services providers. If we fail to hire qualified persons to implement, maintain and protect our information technology systems or we fail to upgrade or replace our information technology systems to handle increased volumes and levels of complexity, meet the demands of our clients and protect against disruptions of our operations, we may lose inventory items, orders or clients, which could seriously harm our business. We are in the early stages of implementing an enterprise technology platform, which we refer to as “4asOne.” If we fail to successfully complete and implement the 4asOne project on time and on budget, our financial performance and client relationships may be negatively impacted. We are in the early stages of implementing an enterprise technology platform, which we refer to as 4asOne. The 4asOne project is aimed at establishing a single set of global processes for our freight forwarding business and our global financial management. The scale and anticipated future costs associated with the 4asOne project are significant and we could incur significant costs in excess of what we are planning to spend. Any technical or other difficulties in developing or implementing this project may result in delays, which, in turn, may increase the costs of the project. Currently, we operate numerous systems with varying degrees of integration, which can lead to inefficiencies, workarounds and rework. As such, delays in the 4asOne project will also delay cost savings and efficiencies expected to result from the project. We may also experience difficulties consolidating our current systems, moving to a common set of operational processes and implementing a successful change management process. These difficulties may impact our clients and our ability to efficiently meet their needs. Any such delays or difficulties may have a material and adverse impact on our business, client relationships and financial results. We are dependent on key management personnel and the loss of any such personnel could materially and adversely affect our business. Our future performance depends, in part, upon the continued service of our key management personnel, including Roger I. MacFarlane (Chief Executive Officer and Director), Matthys J. Wessels (Vice Chairman of the 16 Table of Contents Board of Directors and Director), John S. Hextall (Executive Vice President — President, Freight Forwarding), William T. Gates (Executive Vice President — President, Contract Logistics and Distribution), Gene Ochi (Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer), Lawrence R. Samuels (Executive Vice President — Finance and Chief Financial Officer), Ron S. Glickman (Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer) and Lance E. D’Amico (Senior Vice President — Enterprise Support Services and Secretary). Mr. MacFarlane has announced his intention to retire from his day-to-day executive responsibilities as Chief Executive Officer as of January 31, 2010. Mr. Wessels is expected to retire from his day-to-day executive responsibilities in June 2008. There can be no assurance that we will find suitable replacements for Messrs. MacFarlane and Wessels or that we will be able to retain our other key managerial employees. The unplanned loss of the services of one or more of these or other key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We must continue to develop and retain a core group of management personnel and address issues of succession planning if we are to realize our goal of growing our business. We cannot assure that we will be successful in our efforts. We are dependent on our relationships with our agents, affiliates, key employees and third-party carriers in various countries around the world. We conduct business in some countries using a local agent who can provide knowledge of the local market conditions and facilitate the acquisition of necessary licenses and permits. We rely in part upon the services of these agents, as well as our country-level executives, branch managers and other key employees, to market our services, to act as intermediaries with clients and to provide other services on our behalf. Our truck brokerage operations also utilize the services of independent agents and affiliated sales offices, and third-party carriers. There can be no assurance that we will continue to be successful in recruiting or maintaining our relationships with our agents, affiliates or key employees in various foreign countries, or that we will find qualified replacements for agents and key employees who may terminate their relationships with us. Because our agents and employees may occasionally have the primary relationship with certain of our clients, we could lose some clients if a particular agent or key employee were to terminate his or her relationship with us. The loss of, or failure to recruit, qualified agents or employees in a particular country or region could result in the temporary or permanent cessation of our operations and/or the failure to develop our business in that country or region and adversely impact our business. Foreign currency fluctuations could result in currency translation exchange gains or losses or could increase or decrease the book value of our assets. Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar. For the fiscal year ended January 31, 2008, we derived a substantial portion of our gross revenue in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and, due to the global nature of our operations, we expect in the foreseeable future to continue to conduct a significant amount of our business in currencies other than our reporting currency. Appreciation or depreciation in the value of other currencies as compared to our reporting currency will result in currency translation exchange gains or losses which, if the appreciation or depreciation is significant, could be material. In those areas where our revenue is denominated in a local currency rather than our reporting currency, a depreciation of the local currency against the U.S. dollar could adversely affect our reported U.S. dollar earnings. Additionally, the assets and liabilities of our international operations are denominated in each country’s local currency. As such, when the value of those assets is translated into U.S. dollars, foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect the book value of our assets. We cannot predict the effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results. We will experience the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our consolidated net income in the future. Because our freight forwarding and domestic ground transportation operations are dependent on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen, changes in available cargo capacity and other changes affecting such carriers, as well as interruptions in service or work stoppages, may negatively impact our business. We rely on commercial airfreight carriers and air charter operators, ocean freight carriers, trucking companies, major U.S. railroads, other transportation companies, draymen and longshoremen for the movement of our clients’ cargo. Consequently, our ability to provide these services for our clients could be adversely impacted by shortages in available cargo capacity; changes by carriers and transportation companies in policies and practices such as 17 Table of Contents scheduling, pricing, payment terms and frequency of service or increases in the cost of fuel, taxes and labor; and other factors not within our control. Reductions in airfreight or ocean freight capacity could negatively impact our yields. Material interruptions in service or stoppages in transportation, whether caused by strike, work stoppage, lock-out, slowdown or otherwise, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our non asset-based transportation management, truck brokerage and trucking businesses are subject to a number of factors that are largely beyond our control, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Our distribution businesses could be materially adversely affected by numerous risks beyond our control including: • potential liability to third parties and clients as a result of accidents involving our employees, independent contractors or third party carriers, • increased insurance premiums, the unavailability of adequate insurance coverage, or the solvency of our current insurance providers, • recruitment and retention of independent sales agents and affiliates, • adverse weather and natural disasters, • interruptions in services or stoppages in transportation as a result of labor disputes, • changes in fuel taxes, • the ability to effectively pass through fuel cost increases to our clients through commonly accepted fuel surcharges, • the extremely competitive and fragmented nature of the trucking and domestic ground transportation industry, • changes in governmental regulations or legislation impacting the transportation or trucking industry and unanticipated changes in transportation rates, • potentially adverse effects from federal standards for new engine emissions, and • a carrier’s failure to deliver freight pursuant to client requirements. If any of these risks or others occur, then our business and results of operations would be adversely impacted. In addition, the trucking industry periodically experiences difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified drivers, including independent contractors, and the shortage of qualified drivers and independent contractors has proven to be severe at times during the past few years. If we are unable to continue attracting an adequate number of drivers or contract with enough independent contractors, we could be required to significantly increase our driver compensation package or let trucks sit idle, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. If we are required to reclassify independent contractors as employees in our trucking, truck brokerage and other carrier businesses, we may incur additional costs and taxes which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We use a significant number of independent contractors in our trucking, truck brokerage and other carrier businesses. Currently, there are a number of different tests used in determining whether an individual is an employee or an independent contractor and such tests generally take into account multiple factors. There can be no assurance that legislative, judicial, or regulatory (including tax) authorities will not introduce proposals or assert interpretations of existing rules and regulations that would change the classification of our independent contractors. Although we believe we have properly classified our independent contractors, the Internal Revenue Service or other U.S. federal or state authorities or similar authorities of a foreign government may determine that we have misclassified our independent contractors for employment tax or other purposes and, as a result, seek additional taxes from us or attempt to impose fines and penalties. In this regard, we are currently involved in a dispute with the South African Revenue Service which is attempting to claim that we are liable for approximately $12.9 million, based on exchange rates as of January 31, 2008, in employee taxes in respect of “owner drivers” used for the collection and delivery of cargo in that country. If we are required to change the classification of our independent contractors, we may incur additional costs and be required to pay additional taxes, relating to past, present and future periods, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. 18 Table of Contents Comparisons of our operating results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our operating results have fluctuated in the past and it is likely that they will continue to fluctuate in the future because of a variety of factors, many of which are beyond our control. Changes in our pricing policies and those of our competitors and changes in the shipping patterns of our clients may adversely impact our operating results. In addition, the following factors could also cause fluctuations in our operating results: • personnel costs, • costs relating to the expansion of operations, • costs and revenue fluctuations due to acquisitions, dispositions and the exiting of businesses, • Changes in accounting rules and tax rates, • pricing and availability of cargo space on airlines, ships and trucks which we utilize to transport freight, • fluctuations in fuel prices and fuel and other surcharges, • pricing pressures from our competitors, • litigation and changes in government regulations, • changes in our clients’ requirements for supply chains services and solutions, • client discounts and credits, and • timing and magnitude of capital expenditures, including costs associated with the 4asOne project. Because our quarterly revenues and operating results vary significantly, comparisons of our results from period to period are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indicator of future performance. Our growth and profitability may not continue, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. We experienced significant growth in revenue and operating income over the past several years. There can be no assurance that our growth rate will continue or that we will be able to effectively adapt our management, administrative and operational systems to respond to any future growth. In addition, our operating margins may be adversely affected by the expansion of our business. Slower or less profitable growth or losses would adversely affect our results of operations, which may result in a decrease in our stock price. We may not succeed with our long-term strategic operating plan and, as a result, our revenue, results of operations and profitability may be adversely impacted. In connection with our five-year strategic operating plan, which we refer to as “CLIENTasONE,” we are undertaking various efforts to increase the number and size of our clients and our revenue, improve our operational performance, develop and implement new systems and train and develop our employees. We face numerous challenges in trying to achieve our objectives under this strategic plan, including challenges involving attempts to leverage client relationships, integrate acquisitions and improve our systems. We also face challenges developing, training and recruiting personnel. This strategic operating plan requires that we successfully manage our operations and growth which we may not be able to do as well as we anticipate. Our industry is extremely competitive and our business is subject to numerous factors and risks beyond our control. If we are not able to successfully implement CLIENTasONE, our efforts associated with this strategic plan may not result in increased revenues or improved profitability. If we are not able to increase our revenue or improve our profitability in the future, our results of operations could be adversely affected. We face intense competition in the freight forwarding, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry. The freight forwarding, contract logistics, domestic ground transportation and supply chain management industry is intensely competitive and we expect it to remain so for the foreseeable future. We face competition from a number of companies, including many that have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources. There are a large number of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry. We also encounter competition from regional and local third-party logistics providers, freight forwarders and integrated transportation companies. In addition, clients increasingly are turning to competitive bidding situations involving bids from a number of competitors, including competitors that are larger than us. We also face competition from air and ocean 19 Table of Contents carriers, computer information and consulting firms and contract manufacturers, many of which are beginning to expand the scope of their operations to include supply chain related services. Increased competition could result in reduced revenues, reduced margins or loss of market share, any of which could damage our results of operations and the long-term or short-term prospects of our business. Our business is subject to seasonal trends. Historically, our operating results have been subject to seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis, excluding the impact of acquisitions and foreign currency fluctuations. Our first and fourth fiscal quarters are traditionally weaker compared with our second and third fiscal quarters. This trend is dependent on numerous factors, including the markets in which we operate, holiday seasons, climate, economic conditions and numerous other factors. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from clients in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer demand which can sometimes be difficult to predict or are based on just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, our revenue is, to a large degree, affected by factors that are outside of our control. There can be no assurance that our historic operating patterns will continue in future periods as we cannot influence or forecast many of these factors. Our effective income tax rate will impact our results of operations, cash flow and profitability and the tax returns of some of our subsidiaries are under review by various tax authorities. We have international operations and generate taxable income in different countries throughout the world, with different effective income tax rates. Our future effective income tax rate will be impacted by a number of factors, including the geographical composition of our worldwide taxable income. From time to time, our tax returns are reviewed by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the taxing authorities in other countries in which we operate. For example, in the United States the Company’s subsidiary federal income tax returns for the years ended January 31, 2006 and January 31, 2005 are currently under audit by the IRS. If the tax laws of the countries in which we operate are rescinded or changed or the United States or other foreign tax authorities were to change applicable tax laws or successfully challenge the manner or jurisdiction in which our profits are recognized or our tax positions, our effective income tax rate could increase or we could become obligated to pay additional taxes, which would adversely impact our cash flow and profitability. Because we are a holding company, we are financially dependent on receiving distributions from our subsidiaries and we could be harmed if such distributions could not be made in the future. We are a holding company and all of our operations are conducted through subsidiaries. Consequently, we rely on dividends or advances from our subsidiaries to meet our financial obligations and to pay dividends on our ordinary shares. The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends to us and our ability to receive distributions on our investments in other entities is subject to applicable local law and other restrictions including, but not limited to, applicable tax laws and limitations contained in our credit facilities. In general, our subsidiaries cannot pay dividends to us in excess of their retained earnings and most countries in which we conduct business require us to pay a distribution tax on all dividends paid. Such laws and restrictions could limit the payment of dividends and distributions to us which would restrict our ability to continue operations. Because we manage our business on a localized basis in many countries around the world, our operations and internal controls may be materially adversely affected by inconsistent management practices. We manage our business in many countries around the world, with local and regional management retaining responsibility for day-to-day operations, profitability and the growth of the business. This local and regional management is often rewarded based on regional and sub-regional financial performance rather than enterprise-wide financial performance. This operating approach can make it difficult for us to implement strategic decisions and coordinated practices and procedures throughout our global operations, including implementing and maintaining effective internal controls throughout our worldwide organization. In addition, some of our subsidiaries operate with management, sales and support personnel that may be insufficient to support growth in their respective businesses without regional oversight and global coordination. Our decentralized operating approach could result in inconsistent management practices and procedures and adversely affect our overall profitability, and ultimately our business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects. There can be no assurances that we will be able to comply in future years with the requirements and deadlines of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Section 404), particularly in light of our decentralized 20 Table of Contents management structure. A reported material weakness or the failure to meet the reporting deadline of Section 404 could result in an adverse reaction in the financial markets due to a loss of confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and this loss of confidence could cause a decline in the market price of our stock. Our information technology systems are subject to risks which we cannot control. Our information technology systems are dependent upon global communications providers, web browsers, telephone systems and other aspects of the Internet infrastructure which have experienced system failures and electrical outages in the past. Our systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, floods, power loss, telecommunications failures, break-ins and similar events. Despite our implementation of network security measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. The occurrence of any of these events could disrupt or damage our information technology systems and inhibit our internal operations, our ability to provide services to our clients and the ability of our clients to access our information technology systems. We may be adversely affected if we are unable to license the software necessary for our information technology system. We license a variety of software that is used in our information technology system, which we call eMpower. As a result, the success and functionality of our information technology system is dependent upon our ability to continue our licenses for this software. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain these licenses or replace the functionality provided by this software on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The failure to maintain these licenses or a significant delay in the replacement of this software could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are not able to limit our liability for clients’ claims through contract terms and limit our exposure through the purchase of insurance, we could be required to pay large amounts to our clients as compensation for their claims and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In general, we seek to limit by contract and/or International Conventions and laws our liability to our clients for loss or damage to their goods and losses arising from our errors and omissions. However, these attempts are not always successful. We have, from time to time, made payments to our clients for claims related to our services and we expect to make such payments in the future. Should we experience an increase in the number or size of such claims or an increase in liability pursuant to claims or unfavorable resolutions of claims, our results could be adversely affected. For example, we may be subjected to claims alleging that a malfunctioning climate-control unit at one of our subsidiaries’ warehouses resulted in damage to works of art stored in such warehouse. There can be no assurance that our insurance coverage will provide us with adequate coverage for such claims or that the maximum amounts for which we are liable in connection with our services will not change in the future or exceed our insurance levels. As with every insurance policy, our insurance policies contain limits, exclusions and deductibles that apply and we could be subject to claims for which insurance coverage may be inadequate or where coverage is disputed, and these claims could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, significant increases in insurance costs could reduce our profitability. The failure of our policies and procedures which are designed to prevent the unlawful transportation or storage of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials could subject us to large fines, penalties or lawsuits. We are subject to a broad range of foreign and domestic (including state and local) environmental, health and safety and criminal laws and regulations, including those governing discharges into the air and water, the storage, handling and disposal of solid and hazardous waste and the shipment of explosive or illegal substances. In the course of our operations, we may be asked to store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of substances defined as hazardous under applicable laws. If a release of hazardous substances occurs on or from our facilities or equipment or from the transporter, we may be required to participate in the remedy of, or otherwise bear liability for, such release or be subject to claims from third parties whose property or person is injured by the release. In addition, if we store, transport or arrange for the storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we may face civil or criminal fines or penalties, including bans on making future shipments in particular geographic areas. In the event we are found to not be in compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety laws and regulations or there is a future finding that our policies and 21 Table of Contents procedures fail to satisfy requisite minimum safeguards or otherwise do not comply with applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to large fines, penalties or lawsuits and face criminal liability. In addition, if any damage or injury occurs as a result of our storage or transportation of hazardous, explosive or illegal materials, we may be subject to claims from third parties, and bear liability, for such damage or injury even if we were unaware of the presence of the hazardous, explosive or illegal materials. If we fail to comply with applicable governmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or revocation of our permits and licenses and we may experience increased costs as a result of governmental regulation. Our air transportation activities in the U.S. are subject to regulation by the Department of Transportation as an indirect air carrier and by the Federal Aviation Administration. We are also subject to security measures and strict shipper and client classifications by the Department of Homeland Security through the Transportation Security Administration (TSA). Our overseas offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective countries of operation, as necessary. We are accredited in each of our offices by the International Air Transport Association (IATA) or the Cargo Network Services Corporation, a subsidiary of IATA, as a registered agent. Our indirect air carrier status is also subject to the Indirect Air Carrier Standard Security Program administered by the TSA. We are licensed as a customs broker by the CBP in each United States customs district in which we do business. All United States customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records and are subject to periodic audits by the CBP. As a certified and validated party under the self-policing C-TPAT, we are subject to compliance with security regulations within the trade environment that are enforced by the CBP. We are also subject to regulations under the Container Security Initiative, or CSI, which is administered by the CBP. Our foreign customs brokerage operations are licensed in and subject to the regulations of their respective countries. We are licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by and registered as an ocean transportation intermediary with the Federal Maritime Commission. The Federal Maritime Commission has established qualifications for shipping agents, including surety bonding requirements. The Federal Maritime Commission also is responsible for the economic regulation of non-vessel operating common carriers that contract for space and sell that space to commercial shippers and other non-vessel operating common carriers for freight originating or terminating in the U.S. To comply with these economic regulations, vessel operators and non-vessel operating common carriers are required to publish tariffs that establish the rates to be charged for the movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The Federal Maritime Commission has the power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. For ocean shipments not originating or terminating in the U.S., the applicable regulations and licensing requirements typically are less stringent than those that do originate or terminate in the U.S. As part of our contract logistics services, we operate owned and leased warehouse facilities. Our operations at these facilities include both warehousing and distribution services, and we are subject to various national and state environmental, work safety and hazardous materials regulations. Certain of our U.S. trucking and truck brokerage operations are subject to regulation by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration (the FMCSA), which is an agency of the U.S. Department of Transportation, and by various state agencies. The FMCSA has broad regulatory powers with respect to activities such as motor carrier operations, practices and insurance. Interstate motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by the FMCSA. Subject to federal and state regulation, we may transport most types of freight to and from any point in the U.S. The trucking industry is subject to possible regulatory and legislative changes (such as the possibility of more stringent environmental, safety or security regulations or limits on vehicle weight and size) that may affect the economics of the industry by requiring changes in operating practices or the cost of providing truckload services. We must comply with certain insurance and surety bond requirements to act in this capacity. If we were found to be out of compliance, our operations could be restricted or otherwise adversely impacted. We may experience an increase in operating costs, such as costs for security, as a result of governmental regulations that have been and will be adopted in response to terrorist activities and potential terrorist activities. Compliance with changing governmental regulations can be expensive. No assurance can be given that we will be able to pass these increased costs on to our clients in the form of rate increases or surcharges. We cannot predict what impact future regulations may have on our business. Our failure to maintain required permits or licenses, or to comply with applicable regulations, could result in substantial fines or the revocation of our operating permits and licenses. 22 Table of Contents If we are not able to sell container space that we purchase from ocean shipping lines, capacity that we charter from our air carriers and utilize our truck capacity, we will not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs and our profitability may suffer. As an indirect ocean carrier or non-vessel operating common carrier, we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a specified time period at variable rates. As an airfreight forwarder, we also charter aircraft capacity to meet peak season volume increases for our clients, particularly in Hong Kong and other locations in Asia. We then solicit freight from our clients to fill the ocean containers and air charter capacity. When we contract with ocean shipping lines to obtain containers and with air carriers to obtain charter aircraft capacity, we become obligated to pay for the container space or charter aircraft capacity that we purchase. If we are not able to sell all of our purchased container space or charter aircraft capacity, we will not be able to recover our out-of-pocket costs for such purchase of container space or charter aircraft capacity and our results would be adversely affected. With our acquisition of Market Transport Services, we lease or own a number of trucks which are utilized in our trucking business. If we are unable to efficiently utilize these trucks, we will not be able to recover all of our expenses associated with operating these trucks and our results would be adversely affected. If we lose certain of our contract logistics clients or we cannot maintain adequate levels of utilization in our shared warehouses, then we may experience revenue losses and decreased profitability. As a contract logistics provider, from time to time, we lease single-tenant warehouses and distribution facilities under leases with terms longer than the contract logistics services contracts we have with our clients. We are required to pay rent under these real property leases even if our clients decide not to renew or otherwise terminate their agreements with us and we are not able to obtain new clients for these facilities. As a result, our revenues and earnings may be adversely affected. In addition, if we experience a decline in demand for space in our shared warehouses, then our revenues and earnings may decline as we would continue to be obligated to pay the full amount of the underlying leases. If we are not reimbursed for amounts which we advance for our clients, our net revenue and profitability may decrease. We make significant disbursements on behalf of our clients for transportation costs concerning collect freight and customs duties and taxes and in connection with our performance of other contract logistics services. The billings to our clients for these disbursements may be several times larger than the amount of revenue and fees derived from these transactions. If we are unable to recover a significant portion of these disbursements or if our clients do not reimburse us for a substantial amount of these disbursements in a timely manner, we may experience net revenue losses, decreased profitability and our cash flow may be negatively impacted. It may be difficult for our shareholders to effect service of process and enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us or our directors and executive officers who reside outside of the United States. We are incorporated in the British Virgin Islands. Some of our directors and executive officers reside outside the United States, and a majority of our assets are located outside the United States. As a result, we have been advised by legal counsel in the British Virgin Islands that it may be difficult or impossible for our shareholders to effect service of process upon, or to enforce judgments obtained in United States courts against us or certain of our directors and executive officers, including judgments predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States. Because we are incorporated under the laws of the British Virgin Islands, it may be more difficult for our shareholders to protect their rights than it would be for a shareholder of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Our corporate affairs are governed by our Memorandum and Articles of Association and by the BVI Companies Act, 2004 (No. 16 of 2004) of the British Virgin Islands. Principles of law relating to such matters as the validity of corporate procedures, the fiduciary duties of management and the rights of our shareholders differ from those that would apply if we were incorporated in the United States or another jurisdiction. The rights of shareholders under British Virgin Islands law are not as clearly established as are the rights of shareholders in many 23 Table of Contents other jurisdictions. Thus, shareholders may have more difficulty protecting their interests in the face of actions by our board of directors or our principal shareholders than they would have as shareholders of a corporation incorporated in another jurisdiction. Future issuances of preference shares could adversely affect the holders of our ordinary shares. We are authorized to issue up to 100,000,000 preference shares, of which 50,000,000 have been designated as Class A preference shares and 50,000,000 have been designated as Class B preference shares. Our board of directors may determine the rights and preferences of the Class A and Class B preference shares within the limits set forth in our Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable law. Among other rights, our board of directors may determine, without further vote or action by our shareholders, the dividend, voting, conversion, redemption and liquidation rights of our preference shares. Our board of directors may also amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association to create from time to time one or more classes of preference shares or to increase the authorized number of preference shares. The issuance of any preference shares could adversely affect the rights of the holders of ordinary shares, and therefore reduce the value of the ordinary shares. While currently no preference shares are outstanding, no assurance can be made that we will not issue preference shares in the future. Our Memorandum and Articles of Association contain anti-takeover provisions which may discourage attempts by others to acquire or merge with us and which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association may discourage attempts by other companies to acquire or merge with us, which could reduce the market value of our ordinary shares. Provisions in our Memorandum and Articles of Association may delay, deter or prevent other persons from attempting to acquire control of us. These provisions include: • the authorization of our board of directors to issue preference shares with such rights and preferences determined by the board, without the specific approval of the holders of ordinary shares, • the division of our board of directors into three classes, each of which is elected in a different year, • the prohibition of action by the written consent of the shareholders, • the ability of our board of directors to amend our Memorandum and Articles of Association without shareholder approval, • the establishment of advance notice requirements for director nominations and other proposals by shareholders for consideration at shareholder meetings, and • the requirement that the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at a meeting are required to approve changes to specific provisions of our Memorandum and Articles of Association (including those provisions described above and others which are designed to discourage non negotiated takeover attempts); provided that as a prior condition to such vote by the shareholders our board of directors has approved the subject matter of the vote. In addition, our Articles of Association permit special meetings of the shareholders to be called only by our board of directors upon a resolution of the directors or by the directors upon the written request of holders of more than 30% of our outstanding voting shares. Our Articles of Association also contain a provision limiting business combinations with any holder of 15% or more of our shares unless the holder has held such shares for three years or, among other things, our board of directors has approved the transaction. Provisions of British Virgin Islands law to which we are subject could substantially impede the ability of our shareholders to benefit from a merger, takeover or other business combination involving us, discourage a potential acquiror from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us, and impede the ability of our shareholders to change our management and board of directors. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 