Item 1A. Risk Factors Our business faces many risks. Any of the risks and uncertainties discussed below, or elsewhere in this report or our other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also adversely affect our business. If any of the risks and uncertainties develops into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially affected. If that happens, the trading price of our common stock could decline significantly. Our future revenue and revenue growth will depend on our ability to retain our existing customers, sell additional products and services to our existing customers, introduce new or enhanced products and services and attract and retain new customers. Customer retention is an important factor in the amount and predictability of revenue in each of our businesses. Our ability to retain our customers depends on a number of factors, including: · customer satisfaction; · new product and service offerings; · customer service levels; · price; · customer viability; and · competition. We expect that a portion of our anticipated future revenue growth in each of our business segments will be derived from: · the continued selling of products and services to our existing customers; · the selling of additional products and services to our existing customers; · the introduction of new or enhanced products and services by our businesses; and · the selling of products and services to new customers. 17 Our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and grow revenue will depend on a variety of factors, including: · the quality and perceived value of our product and service offerings by existing and new customers; · effective sales and marketing efforts; · our speed to market and avoidance of difficulties or delays in development of new products and services; · the level of market acceptance of new products and services; · our ability to integrate technology into our products and services to avoid obsolescence and provide scalability; · the successful implementation of products and services for new and existing customers; · the regulatory needs and requirements facing our company and our customers; and · our ability to meet increased customer regulatory requirements, including our customers that are governmental agencies or entities. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our revenue objectives from our cross-selling efforts and selling of new products and services. The inability to cross-sell our products and services, retain existing customers (such as the U.S. Department of Defense), attract new customers or successfully develop and implement new and enhanced products and services could adversely affect our businesses. Our ability to improve operating margins in our HRS business will depend on the degree to which and the speed with which we are able to increase operational efficiencies and reduce operating costs. Our ability to improve profit margins in our HRS business will depend on factors that include the degree to which and the speed with which we are able to increase operational efficiencies and reduce operating costs. We may not be able to reduce our overall cost structure compared to our revenues, or otherwise improve productivity. We may face delays or difficulties in implementing product, process and system improvements. We may not be able to quickly and effectively install new products and services for customers. We may face delays or difficulties in consolidating various functions, including administrative functions, eliminating duplicate operations and consolidating facilities. We may not be able to successfully outsource or offshore various operating and administrative functions, to the extent we deem appropriate. Any of these factors could adversely affect the timing or effectiveness of cost reduction and margin improvement efforts in our business and our ability to successfully compete in the markets we serve. The markets we serve are highly competitive and may attract new competitors or cause current competitors to focus more on these markets, which could adversely affect our business. The markets for our businesses are highly competitive. We face a variety of competitors, and some of our competitors have substantially greater financial resources than Ceridian. In addition, new competitors could decide to enter the markets we serve or current competitors could decide to focus greater resources on these markets, which could intensify the highly competitive conditions that already exist. These new entrants and existing competitors could offer or introduce new technologies or a different service model, or could treat the services to be provided by one of our businesses as one component of a larger product or service offering. These developments could enable these new and existing competitors to offer similar products or services at reduced prices. Any of these or similar developments could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 18 The loss of our contract with the U.S. Department of Defense would likely have an adverse affect on our HRS business. We currently provide customized work-life and employee assistance services to U.S. Armed Services personnel under a contract with the U.S. Department of Defense. Our contract with the U.S. Department of Defense will expire on March 31, 2006. We are currently negotiating a contract extension with the U.S. Department of Defense that would extend our relationship with them through approximately September 30, 2006. It is our understanding that the U.S. Department of Defense intends to issue a request for proposal to enter into a long-term contract with a provider to begin on or about October 1, 2006. We intend to respond to this request for proposal. If we are unsuccessful in securing an extension of the existing contract or securing a new contract with the U.S. Department of Defense, the loss of this customer would likely have an adverse affect on our HRS business. Any breach of our IT security or loss of customer data could adversely affect our businesses. Any security breach in our business processes and/or systems has the potential to impact our customer information and our financial reporting capabilities which could result in the potential loss of business and our ability to accurately report financial results. In addition, any issues of data privacy as it relates to unauthorized access to or loss of customer and/or employee information could result in the potential loss of business, damage to our market reputation, litigation and regulatory investigation and penalties. We cannot assure you that our continued investment in the security of our IT systems and continued efforts to improve the controls within the IT and business processes will prevent attempts to breach our security. If our security is breached, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and operating results. Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, with corresponding impacts on the industries that we serve, particularly those more economically sensitive industries such as trucking and retail. Approximately 69.6% of Comdata’s revenue for 2005 was attributable to its transportation business. Comdata’s results of operations are, therefore, dependent on the level of activity in the transportation industry, which, in turn, is affected by general economic conditions. Further, a decrease in the number of truck drivers would decrease the number of Comchek transactions and could adversely affect Comdata’s revenues. Also, since significant portions of fueling transactions are priced by reference to the amount spent on the transaction, Comdata’s revenue can be significantly affected by changes in fuel prices. Falling fuel prices directly reduce the amounts of revenue and earnings related to these transactions. Rising fuel prices increases Comdata’s revenue and earnings. However, rising fuel prices also increase working capital requirements and subject Comdata to greater credit or bad debt risks with respect to its customers that purchase fuel using a Comdata payment method. We have a fuel price risk management objective to protect Comdata earnings from the effects of falling fuel prices. Comdata has entered into derivative instruments that convert the floating price of diesel fuel used to a fixed price. These derivative instruments generally expire at the end of the year. As a result, quarterly results for Comdata and Ceridian as a whole could be volatile as these instruments are “marked to market” at the end of each quarter. For the full term of the derivative instrument, however, the gain or loss on diesel fuel price derivatives included in Comdata’s results will be approximately equal to the cash flows related to these instruments. 19 Changes in trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions could also affect: · employment levels, with a corresponding impact on our HRS business; and · interest rates, with a corresponding impact on investment income from invested customer funds which are held pending remittance to taxing authorities, customer employees and other third parties. Decreased employment levels, as well as slowed economic conditions, could negatively affect wage and bonus payments, orders and the timing of product installations, and negatively impact the operating results of our HRS business. Government regulation changes on timing or amount of remittances and changes in interest rates may reduce our investment income from customer deposits. Our HRS business in the United States and Canada has historically derived significant revenue and earnings from the investment of customer deposits, and this revenue and earnings are an integral part of our HRS business. Changes in governmental regulations on the timing and amount of remittances may reduce the period of time we are allowed to hold these remittances, as well as the amount of such remittances, and may decrease our revenue and earnings from this source. If governmental regulations change in this fashion, we would likely seek to require customers who permit us to retain earnings on their deposits to pay us additional fees in lieu of a portion of this lost investment income. In addition, changes in interest rates will affect our revenue and earnings from this source. Interest rate changes are difficult to predict and could be significant. Changes in or the elimination of governmental regulations may negatively impact our revenue and earnings and the way we conduct our business. Changes in or the elimination of governmental regulations may adversely affect our revenue and earnings and the way in which we conduct our business. Changes in governmental regulations are difficult to predict and could be significant. For example, the extent and type of benefits that employers are required to or may choose to provide employees and/or the amount and type of federal or state taxes employers and employees are required to pay will affect the revenue and earnings associated with the products or services that we may sell. As another example, Comdata is currently licensed on the state level by the banking or financial institutions departments of numerous states. Continued licensing by these states is subject to ongoing satisfaction of compliance requirements regarding safety and soundness, including, for example, posting of surety bonds to guarantee payment of funds in transit. Changes in this regulatory environment, including the implementation of new or varying measures by the government, may significantly affect or change the manner in which we currently conduct some of the aspects of our business. Further, if we are unable to timely and appropriately comply with existing or changed government regulations, we may be subject to sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties. Our investments in our business may not improve our business performance. We have ongoing and continued initiatives to invest in and improve the performance of our businesses. These initiatives include: · improving our customer service model; · improving customer retention; · continuing product enhancements; 20 · improving our return on information technology investments; · investing in and improving our return on process improvements, including our Six Sigma program (an effort that focuses on helping organizations design, produce, implement and provide services better, faster and cheaper); · consolidating and improving efficiencies at our processing centers; and · increasing the effectiveness of our direct sales efforts and account management programs. In our HRS business, the profitability of certain portions of the business, including various HRS operating functions and our operations in different countries (the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom), varies greatly, and in some instances generates losses. The profitability of certain elements of our HRS business can also vary from year to year due to either external or internal factors. We may not be able to improve the performance of the elements of the HRS business that lose money or are less profitable than others. Further, each of our U.S. HRS operating functions and our HRS operations in Canada and the United Kingdom require substantial ongoing investment in maintaining and improving infrastructure and product solutions. We may not have sufficient financial resources to fund all of the desired or necessary investments. We cannot assure you that our efforts and the amount we invest in this process will improve the performance of our business, and if so, by how much. If these initiatives are less successful than planned, or the level of investment needs to be increased, our business could be adversely affected. Our investments may not improve the performance of our technology. We have ongoing and continued initiatives to invest in and improve the performance of information technology (IT) systems and technology based products and services. These initiatives include: · standardizing the IT development process; · integrating of new technology into our products and services to avoid obsolescence; · providing scalability; · upgrading our financial systems; and · continuing rationalization of our staff and locations. We cannot assure you that our efforts will be successful and that the amount we invest in this process will improve the performance of our technology or improve our ability to compete in the markets we serve. If these initiatives are unsuccessful or less successful than planned, or the level of investment needs to be increased, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Any problems or delays we may experience in implementing system upgrades and conversions could adversely affect our business. We expect to continue our efforts to transition to new or enhanced data processing systems and/or software, including systems that process customer data and internal management information systems. The successful implementation of these new or enhanced systems will be critical to the effective delivery of products and services and the efficient operation of our businesses. Problems or delays with the installation or initial operation of the new or enhanced systems could disrupt or increase costs in connection with our delivery of services and with our operations planning, financial reporting and management. From time to time, we have experienced these types of problems or delays. 21 Our ability to remain competitive depends on our speed to market with new or enhanced technology. As a provider of information management and data processing services in both of our business segments, we need to rapidly adapt and respond to the technological advances offered by our competitors and the technological requirements of our customers in order to maintain or improve upon our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will develop and release new products and services or product and service enhancements within the required time frames and within targeted costs. Significant delays, difficulties or added costs in introducing new products and services or enhancements, either through internal development, acquisitions or cooperative relationships with other companies, could adversely affect the market acceptance of our products and services and our operating results. In the event of a catastrophic occurrence our ability to protect client data and maintain operations may be impaired. In the event of a catastrophic occurrence, either natural or man-made, our ability to protect our infrastructure, including client data, and maintain ongoing operations may be significantly impaired. We cannot assure you that our business continuity and disaster recovery plans and strategies will be successful in mitigating the effects of a catastrophic occurrence. We could potentially lose control of customer data and may experience significant interruptions of our operations and service to our customers. Our success is dependent on the retention and acquisition of talented people and the skills and abilities of our management team and key personnel. We must continue to attract, hire, train, develop and retain talented people to fill the key roles within the organization. We must provide challenging roles, with accountability and commensurate rewards, to attract and retain the appropriate individuals to the organization. If we are unable to attract and retain talented employees who work effectively as members of teams, it could impact our ability to deliver the expected results from our operations. The success and performance of our business is dependent upon retaining and attracting management and key personnel with the appropriate skills, abilities and market knowledge for each of our operating functions and geographic areas, as well as for product development. There is no assurance we can retain our current management and key personnel or attract additional talent and skills to our existing team. We must continue to retain, attract and develop a core group of management personnel with the appropriate skills, abilities and market knowledge and continually develop appropriate succession plans to continue to grow our business. The failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. We are subject to risks related to our international operations, which may adversely affect our operating results. Approximately 24% of HRS revenue in 2005 was obtained from our international operations. Our Ceridian Canada operations provide certain HRS services for our Canadian customers, and our Ceridian Centrefile subsidiary primarily provides certain HRS services in the United Kingdom. We are beginning to expand our international HRS business into other countries by engaging a partner within a country to provide us with payroll administration and processing services for that country. Comdata also has small operations in Canada, and is beginning to expand its business into Europe. Approximately 2% of Comdata’s revenue in 2005 was derived from customers outside of the United States. In addition to the risks otherwise described herein, international operations are subject to further additional risks that could adversely affect those operations or our business as a whole, including: · costs of customizing products and services for foreign customers; 22 · difficulties in managing and staffing international operations; · difficulties with or inability to engage global partners; · reduced protection for intellectual property and other legal rights in some countries; · longer sales and payment cycles; · the burdens of complying with a wide variety of foreign laws; · exposure to legal jurisdictions which may not recognize or interpret customer contracts in predictable ways; · exposure to local economic and political conditions; and · unfavorable currency exchange rates. In addition, we anticipate that customers and potential customers may increasingly require and demand that a single vendor provide HRS solutions and services for their employees in a number of countries. If we are unable to provide the required services on a multi-national basis, there may be a negative impact on our new orders and customer retention, which would negatively impact revenue and earnings. Although we have a multi-national strategy, substantial additional investment and efforts may be necessary to ensure success. Our business and results of operations are dependent on several vendors and suppliers, the loss of whom could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. Our business is dependent on several vendors and suppliers, the loss of whom could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations. In particular, Comdata’s current business relies upon its relationships with third party suppliers, such as MasterCard, to effect and support transactions, including access to the Cirrus ATM network and the Maestro point-of-sale debit network. The ability of Comdata to continue to provide some of its services in the manner in which it currently delivers them may be affected by actions taken by third party suppliers, including MasterCard or other similar card associations. Comdata’s application to form a Utah industrial bank that would likely become a direct participant in the MasterCard credit and debit networks is subject to FDIC approval, which is currently pending and may not be approved until, among other things, the issues with the Securities and Exchange Commission investigation discussed below are substantively resolved. Any adverse change in Comdata’s relationship with these vendors or Comdata’s inability to timely and effectively establish an industrial bank or find other timely and effective alternatives to these vendor relationships could likely adversely affect Comdata’s business and results of operations and could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations as well. The failure of our HRS business to comply with applicable laws could result in substantial taxes, penalties and liabilities that could adversely affect our business. Our HRS customers remit employer and employee tax funds to our HRS division or its subsidiaries. Our HRS division or its subsidiaries process the data received from its customers and remit the funds along with a tax return to the appropriate taxing authorities when due. Under various service agreements with its customers, our HRS division or its subsidiaries assume financial responsibility for the payment of the taxes, penalties and liabilities assessed against its customers arising out of the failure of our HRS division or its subsidiaries to fulfill its obligations under its agreements with these customers, unless these taxes, penalties or liabilities are attributable to the customer’s failure to comply with the terms of the agreement the customer has with our HRS division or its subsidiaries. These taxes, penalties and liabilities could, in some cases, be substantial and could adversely affect its business and operating results. Additionally, the failure of our HRS division or its subsidiaries to fulfill its obligations under its customer agreements could adversely affect our reputation, its relationship with our customers and its ability to gain 23 new customers. Mistakes may occur in connection with this service. Our HRS division or its subsidiaries and its customers may be subject to penalties imposed by tax authorities for late filings or underpayment of taxes. Retirement plan assets are remitted directly by our customers to investment vehicles selected by the plan administrator or plan sponsor. Because tracking, processing and administering retirement plans is complex, providers of these services on occasion make mistakes in connection with this service. Our HRS division or its subsidiaries and its customers are subject to cash penalties and legal liabilities imposed by regulatory authorities for non-compliance with required reporting and processing of retirement plan contributions. As a result of the services our benefit services subsidiary provides, it may be subject to potential legal liability as a provider of portability compliance services. As a provider of COBRA compliance services, our benefit services subsidiary is subject to excise taxes and penalties for noncompliance with provisions of COBRA. In addition to the excise tax and penalty liabilities that may be imposed on our benefit services subsidiary, substantial excise taxes and penalties may be imposed under COBRA on our customers. In addition, as a provider of HIPAA compliance and administration services, our benefit services subsidiary may be subject to ERISA (Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974) penalties for noncompliance with various provisions of HIPAA. As a result of work-life and assistance programs currently provided to the U.S. Department of Defense, we are required to comply with all applicable Federal and U.S. Department of Defense contracting regulations. Non-compliance with required reporting and performance activities subjects us to penalties and legal liabilities imposed by regulatory authorities. Litigation and governmental inquiries, investigations and proceedings may adversely affect our financial results. Our future operating results may be adversely affected by adverse judgments, settlements, unanticipated costs or other effects of legal and administrative proceedings now pending or that may be instituted in the future, or from investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and other administrative agencies. From time to time, we have had inquiries from regulatory bodies relating to the operation of our business. It has been our practice to cooperate with such inquiries. Such inquiries may result in various audits, reviews and investigations. For example, on January 22, 2004, we filed a Current Report on Form 8-K, under Item 5, stating that we announced that we are responding to a document request from the SEC, and that we had been advised that the SEC has issued a formal order of investigation. In February 2004, we provided documents responsive to the SEC. In July 2004, we advised the SEC of the investigation being directed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. We have kept the SEC advised on a regular basis of the Audit Committee’s investigation. On December 10, 2004, we received a further formal confidential document request from the SEC. The second request broadened the areas of inquiry to include, among other things, Ceridian’s restatements, revenue recognition, capitalization, expense recognition, how we respond to any internal ethics complaints, and Ceridian’s accounting policies and procedures. The formal document requests state that the SEC investigation is a non-public, fact-finding inquiry, and that the investigation and document requests do not mean that the SEC has concluded that we have violated any securities laws. As is common in SEC investigations, on June 15, 2005, we received a subpoena from the SEC seeking certain additional documents that relate to some of the areas of inquiry identified above. The subpoena is consistent with investigations of this type and was anticipated. We continue to fully cooperate with the SEC and are in the process of responding to the SEC’s additional document request and subpoena and cannot estimate when such investigation will conclude. 24 An adverse outcome of this SEC investigation or other inquiries from regulatory bodies could have a material adverse effect on us and result in: · the institution of administrative or civil proceedings; · sanctions and the payment of fines and penalties; · a further restatement of our financial results for the years under review; · changes in personnel; · shareholder lawsuits; and · increased review and scrutiny of us by our customers, regulatory authorities, the media and others. In addition, the following lawsuits have been filed in relation to the restatements and SEC investigation. An adverse outcome of these lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on the company. Since August 6, 2004, six shareholder lawsuits have been filed against Ceridian Corporation and certain executive officers in United States District Court, District of Minnesota. On March 7, 2005, those lawsuits were consolidated into a single case captioned In re Ceridian Corporation Securities Litigation, Case No. 04-cv-03704 MJD-JGL. This consolidated action purports to be a class action filed on behalf of all persons who purchased or otherwise acquired common stock of the Company between April 17, 2003 through and including March 17, 2005, and alleges claims against the Company and certain of its officers under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Plaintiffs challenge the accuracy of certain public disclosures made by Ceridian regarding its financial performance, and in particular Ceridian’s accounting for revenue and expenses, accounting for capitalization, accounting for derivatives, accounting for long-term leases, and accounting for trademarks. Plaintiffs allege, in essence, that the Company’s series of restatements constituted a violation of Section 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Since August 13, 2004, two shareholders have filed derivative suits on behalf of Ceridian against Ceridian, as nominal defendant, its directors and certain of its executive officers in United States District Court, District of Minnesota: James Park, Derivatively On Behalf of Ceridian Corporation v. Ronald L. Turner, et al., and Anthony Santiamo, Derivatively On Behalf of Ceridian Corporation v. Ronald L. Turner, et al., both served August 19, 2004. These complaints have been consolidated into a single lawsuit. The consolidated lawsuit alleges that the Ceridian Board of Directors and certain executive officers breached fiduciary duties, through abuse of control, gross mismanagement, waste of corporate assets and unjust enrichment. These complaints rely on the same factual allegations as the purported class action shareholder lawsuits described above. Our ability to implement and execute our strategic plans may not be successful and, accordingly, we may not be successful in achieving our strategic goals. We cannot ensure that we will be successful in developing and implementing our strategic plans for our businesses or that the operational plans that have been or need to be developed to implement the strategic plans will produce the revenue, margins, earnings or synergies that we need to be successful. In addition, these strategic plans and operational plans need to continue to be assessed and reassessed to meet the challenges and needs of our businesses in order for us to remain competitive. Further, the execution of the strategic plans will, to some extent, be dependent on external factors that we cannot control. 25 Our strategy to make acquisitions of and investments in complementary businesses, products and technologies may not be successful and involves risks that could adversely affect our business and operating results. One of our growth strategies for each of our business segments is to make acquisitions of and investments in complementary businesses, products and technologies that will enable us to add products and services for our core customer base and for adjacent markets, and to expand each of our businesses geographically. Our ability to make these acquisitions and investments will depend on a number of factors, including: · the availability of suitable acquisition candidates and investments at acceptable costs; · our ability to compete effectively for these acquisition candidates and investments; and · the availability of capital to complete these acquisitions and investments. A number of these factors are outside our control. In addition, implementation of this strategy entails a number of other risks, including: · inaccurate assessment of undisclosed liabilities; · entry into markets in which we may have limited or no experience; · potential loss of key employees or customers of the acquired businesses; · difficulties in assimilating the operations and products of an acquired business or in realizing projected efficiencies and cost savings; · reallocation of significant amounts of capital from operating initiatives to acquisitions; and · increase in our indebtedness and a limitation in our ability to access additional capital when needed. In addition, from an accounting perspective, most acquisitions and investments involve periodic assessments of the recoverable value of goodwill and other intangible assets. Such assessments could result in an impairment of the goodwill or other intangible assets recorded which may have an adverse impact on our financial condition or operating results. These risks could be heightened if we complete several acquisitions or investments within a relatively short period of time. The benefits of an acquisition or investment may often take considerable time to be realized, or may never be realized, and we cannot guarantee that any acquisition or investment will in fact produce the revenue, earnings or business synergies that we anticipated at the time of the transaction. Our $250 million revolving credit facility and $150 million Comdata receivables securitization facility may restrict our operating flexibility. The governing documents for our $250 million revolving credit facility and the $150 million Comdata receivables securitization facility contain a number of significant provisions that, among other things, restrict our ability to: · sell assets; · incur more indebtedness; · grant or incur liens on our assets; · make investments or acquisitions; · enter into leases or assume contingent obligations; 26 · engage in mergers or consolidations; and · engage in transactions with our affiliates. These restrictions could limit our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs or make acquisitions that may be in our best interest. In addition, our credit facilities require that we satisfy several financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these financial requirements and other restrictions may be affected by events beyond our control, and our inability to comply with them could result in a default under a credit facility. If a default occurs under one of these facilities, the lenders under the other facility could elect to declare all of the outstanding borrowings, as well as accrued interest and fees, to be due and payable under that other facility and require us to apply all of our available cash to repay those borrowings. In addition, a default may result in higher rates of interest and the inability to obtain additional capital. We are reporting a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and as a result, we have concluded, pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2005 was not effective. As we disclosed in our “Management’s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting” set forth in Part II, Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data”, and as disclosed in Part II, Item 9A “Controls and Procedures” of this report, we have concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective based on applicable evaluation criteria as of December 31, 2005 as a result of our identification of a “material weakness” (as defined by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in its Auditing Standard No. 2, “An Audit of Internal Control over Financial Reporting Performed in Conjunction with an Audit of Financial Statements”) relating to inadequate revenue recognition procedures and controls with respect to the analysis of certain complex multiple element revenue arrangements. While we are taking steps to correct this material weakness, this material weakness will not be considered remediated until the new and improved internal controls operate for a period of time, are tested and it is concluded that such new and improved internal controls are operating effectively. If we fail to remediate this material weakness, we could be unable to provide timely and reliable financial information, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Furthermore, it is uncertain what impact an adverse audit opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting will have upon our stock price or business. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 27 