ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS As previously mentioned in our Note Relating to Forward- Looking Statements, there are numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business and the ownership of our stock. We have included below a brief discussion of these risks that are known to us as of the date of this report. State legislation or rulemaking could disrupt, delay and change the permitting process for landfills. The permitting process for landfills is established and governed by the state in which the landfill is to be located. This process is subject to change at both the agency and the legislative levels in each state. In July 2006, the North Carolina legislature enacted a one-year moratorium on permits for new landfills. The moratorium will run from August 1, 2006 to August 1, 2007. The legislation requires the Environmental Review Commission, with the assistance of the Division of Waste Management of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources, to study measures concerning, among other things, financial responsibility requirements, franchise and local government requirements, and siting, design and operational requirements for solid waste landfills in the state. The legislation also establishes a committee to study, among other things, the impact of landfills on minority and low-income 16 Table of Contents communities. The moratorium could lead to delays and greater expense in the development of landfills in North Carolina, including landfills for which we are currently seeking approval. The results of the moratorium on the current permitting process in general cannot be predicted. New statutes or rules could be adopted that are more onerous than those currently in effect. Other states in which we operate could adopt similar moratoriums or change their current landfill permitting processes. Any moratorium or statutory or rule change that increases the time and cost to develop landfills could negatively affect our operations. The North Carolina legislation also requires the Environmental Review Commission to study ways to reduce the amount of solid waste disposed of in North Carolina landfills. Any resulting recommendation by the Commission, if enacted in a statute or rule, could make the landfill permitting process in North Carolina, as well as the construction and operation of landfills, more difficult, lengthy and expensive, or reduce the number or size of landfills that can be built and operated in the state. This could have a negative impact on current projects and our business strategy as well as on our operations due to possible reductions in operating margin and charges to earnings of capitalized expenditures for the development of landfills. Other states could adopt similar measures. If we are unable to maintain and obtain required permits for our existing and any future landfills, our business could be harmed and our results of operations negatively affected. We currently own and/or operate a number of landfills. Our ability to meet financial and operating objectives may depend, in part, on our ability to renew landfill operating permits, acquire, lease and expand landfills and develop new landfill sites. It has become increasingly difficult and expensive to obtain required permits and approvals to build, operate and expand solid waste management facilities, including landfills and transfer stations. Operating permits for landfills in states where we operate must generally be renewed every five to ten years. These operating permits often must be renewed several times during the permitted life of a landfill. The permit and approval process is often time consuming, requires numerous hearings and compliance with zoning, environmental and other requirements, is frequently challenged by citizens, public interest and other groups, and may result in burdensome terms and conditions being imposed on our operations. We may not be able to obtain new landfill sites or expand the permitted capacity of our landfills when necessary. Obtaining new landfill sites is important to our expansion into new, non-exclusive markets. If we do not believe that we can obtain a landfill site in a non-exclusive market, we may choose not to enter that market. Expanding existing landfill sites is important in those markets where the remaining lives of our landfills are relatively short. We may choose to forego acquisitions and internal growth in these markets because increased volumes would further shorten the lives of these landfills. Any of these circumstances could adversely affect our results. Increases in the cost of fuel for any extended period of time would increase our operating expenses, which could negatively affect our earnings. The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. We need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations, and price escalations or reductions in the supply will likely increase our operating expenses and have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we are not able to pass through all of the increased costs and some customers’ contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. Additionally, as fuel prices increase, many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. The waste industry is highly competitive and if we fail to compete successfully our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. The waste industry currently consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues and tax-exempt financing are available to them. Also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. When this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our yield on base business. 17 Table of Contents We may not be able to continue our strategy of growth through acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy includes expanding through acquisitions, acquiring additional exclusive arrangements and generating internal growth. Most of our growth has been through acquisitions. Although we have identified numerous acquisition candidates that we believe are suitable, we may not be able to acquire them at prices or on terms and conditions favorable to us. Our ability to grow also depends on several other factors, including: • the availability of capital to support our growth; • our ability to compete with existing and emerging companies; • our ability to maintain profit margins in the face of competitive pressures; • our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain qualified employees; and • continued strong demand for our services. Difficulties in any of these areas could hinder our growth and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Economic conditions may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations. Weaknesses in the overall U.S. economy or Southeast, where we conduct business, could have a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenues and operating cash flows. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. If economic conditions deteriorate, we will experience pressure on the pricing that we are able to achieve for our services. In addition, worsening economic conditions may lead to further negative effects of customer turnover. There can be no assurance that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all, positive improvement in our operating results. We are subject to costly environmental regulations and environmental litigation that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our equipment, facilities, and operations are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and occupational health and safety. These include, among other things, laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances. Our compliance with these regulatory requirements is costly. Government laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the cost of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations. As a result, we may be required to pay fines, implement corrective measures or may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. We are, and also may be in the future, defendants in lawsuits brought by governmental agencies and surrounding landowners who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material negative effect on our financial condition. Certain of our waste disposal operations traverse state and county boundaries. In the future, our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by proposed federal legislation that authorizes the states to enact legislation governing interstate shipments of waste. Such proposed federal legislation may allow individual states to prohibit the disposal of out-of-state waste or to limit the amount of out-of-state waste that could be imported for disposal and may require states, under some circumstances, to reduce the amount of waste exported to other states. If this or similar legislation is enacted in states in which we operate landfills that receive a significant portion of waste originating from out-of-state, our operations could be negatively affected. We believe that several states have proposed or have considered adopting legislation that would regulate the interstate transportation and disposal of waste in the states’ landfills. Our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by “flow control” legislation which may be proposed in the United States Congress. This proposed federal legislation may allow states and local governments to direct waste generated within their jurisdictions to a specific facility for disposal or processing. If this or similar legislation is enacted, state or local governments with jurisdiction over our landfills could act to limit or prohibit disposal or processing of waste in our landfills. 18 Table of Contents Adverse weather could hamper our operations, which could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our results of operations. Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely affected by long periods of inclement weather, which interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity and/or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In addition, certain of our operations may be temporarily suspended as a result of particularly harsh weather conditions. Severe weather can negatively affect the costs of collection and disposal. Long periods of inclement weather could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Our business is seasonal, which causes our quarterly results to fluctuate. Our results of operations tend to vary seasonally, with the first quarter typically generating the least amount of revenues, higher revenues in the second and third quarters, and a decline in the fourth quarter. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of waste during the fall and winter months primarily due to lower construction activities. Also, certain operating and selling, general, and administrative costs remain relatively constant throughout the calendar year, which, when offset by these revenues, results in a similar seasonality of operating income. Our significant leverage exposes us to increased expense and operational restrictions which could make it difficult to operate our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2006, we had consolidated debt, including capital lease obligations, of approximately $157.6 million. As of December 31, 2006, our availability under our senior credit facility was approximately $41.1 million. We are vulnerable to increases in interest rates because the debt under our senior credit facility is at a variable interest rate. Although in the past we have on occasion entered into certain hedging instruments in an effort to manage our interest rate risk, there is no assurance that we will continue to do so, on favorable terms or at all, in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt and our leases; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets or acquire new or renovate our existing facilities and equipment; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. If we are unable to meet our debt and lease obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, we could default on those obligations. In addition, our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Any new facility likely will contain similar covenants and restrictions. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. 19 Table of Contents We are required to make accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments in preparing our financial statements. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we make several estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events, cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available or is not capable of being readily calculated based on generally accepted methodologies. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. The estimates and the assumptions having the greatest amount of uncertainty, subjectivity and complexity are related to our accounting for landfills, self-insurance, intangibles, allocation of acquisition purchase price, deferred income taxes, asset impairments, litigation, claims and assessments. Actual results for all estimates could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our stock is thinly traded, which can cause volatility in its price. There currently is a public market for our common stock, but there is no assurance that there will always be such a market. Due in part to the high level of insider ownership of our company, our stock is thinly traded, which can affect market volatility. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors, among others: • a deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • statements by research analysts about our common stock, our company or our industry; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally; • actions taken by our competitors; • sales or other issuances of common stock by us, our senior officers or other affiliates; or • other general economic, political or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock will also be impacted by our quarterly operating results which may be expected to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may impact our quarterly results include, among others, failure to obtain required permits, costs of regulatory compliance, fuel prices, general regional and national economic conditions, competition, unexpected costs and changes in pricing, consumer trends, costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and other factors discussed in “Risk Factors” beginning on page 16 and throughout “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 