D. Risk Factors Risks Relating to Our Operations A significant portion of our sales is made to a relatively limited number of large customers. The loss of one of these customers or our inability to obtain new customers would result in lower revenues. Historically, orders from a relatively limited number of customers have accounted for a substantial portion of our sales and we expect that, for the foreseeable future, this will continue to be the case. For example, in 2005 our 10 largest customers accounted for approximately 32.5% of our revenues, with no single customer accounting for more than 10% of our revenues. One of our customers accounted for over 5% of our revenues in 2005, but we expect a significant decrease in revenues from this customer in 2006. This loss or the loss of another of our large customers, if we were unable to attract new customers, would result in a decrease in our revenues. In addition, even if we are successful in attracting new customers, new customers may not use our services in the volumes of lost customers or may be charged less for our services. If we are unable to keep up with rapid changes in technology, our products and services could become difficult to market. The market for our products and services is marked by rapid technological change, frequent new product introductions and technology enhancements, changes in client demands and evolving industry standards. New products and services, based on new or improved technologies or new industry standards, can render existing products and services outdated and difficult to market. To succeed, we will need to enhance our current products and service offerings and develop new products and services on a timely basis to keep pace with developments related to interactive communication technology and to satisfy the increasingly sophisticated requirements of our clients. If we fail to do so, our products and services could become difficult to market, which would adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The process of developing our products and services is extremely complex and requires significant continuing development efforts. Any delays in developing and releasing enhanced or new products and services, or in keeping pace with continuous technological change, could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In particular, if we are unable to use Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) technology effectively, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. VoIP is the transmission of audio over the Internet and is less expensive than traditional telephone service. If our competitors are able to transmit audio utilizing VoIP more efficiently, at a higher sound quality or on a wider basis than ourselves, or if clients perceive that our competitors’ audio services are as good as or better in quality than our services and we are not fully utilizing VoIP, we may lose business to our competitors and be at a competitive disadvantage in the pricing of our services, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our services may be interrupted by technological problems, physical asset problems, natural disasters or terrorism, which may cause us to lose customers. We depend on the performance of our sophisticated infrastructure, based on proprietary and non-proprietary systems, to deliver services to our customers. This dependence will increase as we offer more complex data and Web-based services. Heavy usage of the systems or technological failures could cause delays or could cause the system to break down for a period of time. Although we have redundancy systems and perform regular maintenance with a view to minimizing the occurrences of technical failures, we cannot eliminate all risk of technical problems, which are likely to occur from time to time. We also depend on the performance of physical assets, some of which are not within our control, to deliver services to our customers. Service interruptions due to problems with physical assets, such as the severing of telephone and other cables controlled by third parties, the impact of natural disasters or acts of 9 terrorism in proximity to our call centers or administrative locations, could cause service delays or could cause our systems not to function for a period of time. Although we have redundancy systems and perform a regular review of our redundancy systems with a view to minimizing the potential negative impact of failures of physical assets, natural disasters and acts of terrorism, we cannot eliminate all risks associated with such failures and events. If technological problems or events affecting the physical assets upon which our services depend occur with regularity or disrupt a significant number of customer communications, or if we experience technological or physical problems with greater frequency than our competitors, we may lose customers or incur liability. Our services may be affected by human error, which may cause us to lose customers. In addition to our technology and physical assets, we depend on operators and other employees in connection with the provision of our non-automated services. Notwithstanding the existence of strict security procedures and operating procedures in our call centers, mistakes can arise. If human errors occur with regularity or disrupt a significant number of customer communications, or if we experience security breaches with greater frequency than our competitors, then we might lose customers or incur liability. We depend on the continued services of a few key executives, and only a limited number of those key executives have service contracts. Our future success depends upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key personnel, including our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, François Legros. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decide to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may lose business to competitors or may have difficulty implementing our strategy. While we have recently achieved profitability, we have historically incurred net losses, which have adversely affected our shareholders’ equity and may require our shareholders to reduce our nominal capital to avoid the liquidation of our company. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of €238.1 million. To date, we have funded our operations and acquisitions primarily from the sale of equity securities, convertible bonds and bank borrowings. We expect to continue to incur significant development, sales and marketing and administrative expenses and, as a result, will need to generate significant revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. We have also incurred significant charges related to our organizational restructuring, consolidation of our call centers and relocation of our administrative offices to Reston, Virginia. Although we have recently achieved profitability, we cannot be certain that we will be able to continue to achieve a revenue level sufficient to allow us to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. As of December 31, 2005, our unconsolidated shareholders’ equity represented less than one-half of our share capital. In accordance with French law, our shareholders approved a resolution acknowledging our insufficient equity and proposing the continuation of our company’s activities at our extraordinary general meeting of shareholders held on June 28, 2005. Under French law, we are required to remedy this situation by December 31, 2007 by either reducing our nominal share capital or increasing our equity such that our equity will be at least equal to one-half of our nominal share capital. If we fail to remedy this situation, our company will be subject to liquidation under French law. While we believe that our February 2006 recapitalization has increased our shareholders’ equity above the required level, we do not yet have audited financial results that reflect the recapitalization and we cannot assure you that our equity is sufficient under French law. 10 Fluctuations in currency exchange rates could adversely affect our revenues and results of operations. Because we conduct our business in 24 different countries and territories, our results of operations can be adversely affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our results of operations are particularly sensitive to movements in exchange rates between the euro and the U.S. dollar. Our revenues in the United States (including those of our Canadian subsidiary, which uses the U.S. dollar) represented approximately 49.8% of our 2005 revenues, approximately 51.5% of our total 2004 revenues, and approximately 58.2% of our total 2003 revenues. Our results of operations are also sensitive to movements in exchange rates of the euro against the British pound. During the year ended December 31, 2003, and continuing through December 31, 2004, the euro strengthened substantially against the U.S. dollar and the British pound. In 2005, the euro weakened somewhat against the U.S. dollar, but remains at relatively high levels compared to prior periods. As a result of the increase in the value of the euro in recent years, our revenues stated in euro have been lower than they would have otherwise been. Although the impact of exchange rate movements on our results of operations is somewhat mitigated by the fact that we incur costs and borrow in the currencies of a number of countries in which we operate and sometimes engage in hedging transactions, currency exchange rate movements can nonetheless have a considerable impact on our results of operations and perceptions of our business and financial performance, whether as a result of the translation of our financial results into euro for purposes of our financial statement reporting or our unhedged exposure to changes in our costs from currency exchange rate variations. Exchange rate movements can also affect our compliance with financial ratios under our principal credit facility. When deemed appropriate, we enter into transactions to hedge our exposure to foreign exchange risks incurred in connection with borrowings. These efforts, when undertaken, may fail to offset the effect of adverse currency exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. For more information concerning our exchange rate exposure, see Item 11 “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Challenges to our intellectual property rights could cause us to incur costly litigation and, if we are not successful, could result in the loss of a valuable asset and market share. Our success depends, in part, upon our technology and other intellectual property rights. To date, we have relied primarily on a combination of copyright, trade secret, nondisclosure and other contractual restrictions on copying and distribution to protect our proprietary technology. Litigation to enforce intellectual property rights or protect our trade secrets could result in substantial costs and may not be successful. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property rights, our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. The means available to protect our intellectual property rights in France, the United States or any other country in which we operate may not be adequate to fully protect our intellectual property rights. In addition, not all foreign countries protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as do the laws of France or the United States. Similarly, if third parties claim that we infringe on their intellectual property rights, we might be required to incur significant costs and to devote substantial resources to the defense of such claims. If we are not able to defend such claims successfully, we might lose rights to technology that we need to develop our business, which may cause us to lose market share, or we might be required to pay significant license fees for the use of such technology. We use third party technology in providing our products and services, and our business would be harmed if we were not able to continue using this third party technology. In providing our products and services, we use third party technology that we license or otherwise obtain the right to use, including teleconferencing platforms, software packages and software development tools. There are inherent limitations in the use and capabilities of the technology that we license from third parties. Our business would be seriously harmed if the providers from whom we license software and technology ceased to deliver and to support reliable products, to enhance their current products in a timely 11 fashion or to respond to emerging industry standards. In addition, third party technology may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain or obtain, this technology could result in significant delays or reductions in services we provide. Furthermore, we might be forced to limit the features available in our current or future product and service offerings. Risks Relating to Our Financing and Strategic Activities Our debt covenants may limit our operating flexibility. As of December 31, 2005, we had €76.1 million (U.S. $89.8 million) of debt, the bulk of which was incurred under a U.S. $125 million credit facility agreement that we entered into in April 2001 and thereafter amended, including most recently as part of the transactions described under Item 5, “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” While we repaid a significant portion of the amounts outstanding under the credit facility with the net proceeds of our 2006 recapitalization transactions, approximately U.S. $38 million (approximately €32 million) of debt remains outstanding under the credit facility after such repayment, and we have other debts such as overdraft facilities. This credit facility requires us to comply with certain covenants, including the maintenance of financial ratios relating to leverage, interest cover and cash coverage. The new amendment requires us to use commercially reasonable efforts to refinance the amounts outstanding, failing which we will be required to pay significantly higher interest rates (we are also effectively required to accept refinancing proposals that do not originate with our current lenders at rates that are significantly higher than those we currently pay). This credit facility is described in more detail under Item 5 “Operating and Financial Review and Prospects—Liquidity and Capital Resources” and is included as an exhibit to this annual report under Item 19. If we fail to comply with our covenants, our lenders could require us to seek to effect a strategic transaction (such as the sale of our business) or, if we are unsuccessful, to repay the entire amount outstanding under our credit facility immediately. Our credit facility could have important consequences for our business, such as: · limiting our ability to make capital investments in order to expand our business; · limiting our ability to borrow additional amounts for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or other purposes; · limiting our ability to invest operating cash flow in our business, because we use a substantial portion of these funds to pay debt service and because our covenants restrict the amount of our investments; · limiting our ability to withstand business and economic downturns, because of the high percentage of our operating cash flow that is dedicated to servicing our debt; and · limiting our ability to pay dividends. If we cannot pay our debt service or if we fail to meet our covenants, we could have substantial liquidity problems. In those circumstances, we might have to sell assets, delay planned investments, obtain additional equity capital or restructure our debt. Depending on the circumstances at the time, we may not be able to accomplish any of these actions on favorable terms or at all. Principal and interest payments on our debt will require significant amounts of cash, and we may require additional sources of funds if our sources of liquidity are unavailable or insufficient to fund our operations. Our working capital requirements and cash flows historically have been, and are expected to continue to be, subject to quarterly and yearly fluctuations, depending on a number of factors. If we are unable to 12 manage fluctuations in cash flow, our business, operating results and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Factors that could lead us to suffer cash flow fluctuations include: · the level of sales; · the collection of receivables; and · the timing and size of capital expenditures. Payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness could leave us with insufficient funds to finance our operating activities, such as research and development expenses and capital expenditures. In the future, we may need to secure additional sources of funding if our existing facility and borrowings are not available or insufficient to finance our business. We can provide no assurance that such funding will be available on terms satisfactory to us. Currently, our credit facility prohibits us from incurring additional debt, subject to limited exceptions. If our creditors authorize us to incur higher levels of debt, and if we are able to do so, this would require a larger portion of our operating cash flow to be used to pay principal and interest on our indebtedness. If our sources of liquidity became insufficient to meet our debt obligations and fund our operations, this would have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Relating to Our Industry We may not be able to compete effectively with our competitors, which include some of the largest telecommunications companies in each country in which we operate. The market for conferencing services is rapidly changing and intensely competitive. We expect competition to increase as the industry grows. We may not be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors. Our principal competitors include major telecommunications companies, including France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom and BT and operators such as AT&T, Verizon and Global Crossing, which offer proprietary conferencing services, and, to a lesser degree, regional telecommunications companies that resell conferencing services on a third party basis. These companies are much larger than us, have greater market presence than us, have substantially greater financial, engineering, marketing and other resources than us, and can raise capital at a lower cost than we can. Many of the voice and data communications customers of these telecommunications companies may prefer to use companies that provide multiple services for their conferencing needs, rather than using specialist providers. In order to compete with these larger companies, we must offer better service, lower prices or both. While we believe that we successfully do so today, we cannot assure you that we will continue to be able to do so, particularly if substantial financial investments are required to maintain the highest quality standards. There are also numerous other independent teleconferencing specialists, such as Premiere Global Services and West Corp., and the relatively low barriers to entry in the teleconferencing market means that there might be additional teleconferencing specialists in the future. The presence of other specialists in the market and low barriers to entry mean that we must provide superior service to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, expand internationally to win contracts with customers seeking international services, and ensure that our prices are competitive. In addition, Internet based services are being increasingly offered by large and well-known technology companies such as Microsoft, Oracle, Cisco, IBM and WebEx that are larger than us and have greater financial and other resources than we do. These companies can offer conferencing services as parts of packages that include other business related software, including basic operating system software. Certain of these technology companies have also recently entered or expanded their operations in the Internet conferencing market by making targeted acquisitions and entering into joint ventures and strategic alliances. 13 The intense competition in the market for conferencing and group collaboration services may reduce price levels, which could adversely affect our financial results. In our market, we compete on the basis of the quality, reliability, security and ease of use of our services. We also face intense competition on the basis of technical innovation, brand awareness, customer service, geographic scope, compatibility and price. We expect that our competitors will continue to improve the design and performance of their services and to introduce new services with competitive price and performance characteristics. This competition has led to lower selling prices for our conferencing and group collaboration services. Furthermore, our competitors’ financial advantage may give them the ability to reduce their prices for an extended period of time if they so choose. Increased competition in our market could potentially lead to further price erosion. We are also impacted by reduced price levels on the services that we provide to large enterprises. Due to the significant volume of conferencing and group collaboration services used by our large enterprise customers, they may be charged a lower price for our services. To the extent that our revenue is derived from services provided to large enterprise customers, we may experience a greater degree of price erosion. Increased automation in providing services in our industry has also led to significant price erosion. We expect this trend to continue. If this trend does continue, alone and in conjunction with increased sales to large enterprise customers, it could adversely affect our financial results. Risks Relating to Our ADSs and Our Ordinary Shares The market prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs have been volatile, and may continue to be volatile in the future. Since our initial public offering in October 1998 through May 16, 2006, the closing price of our ordinary shares ranged from a high of €69.18 per share (U.S. $81.63 per share using the December 30, 2005 Noon Buying Rate) to a low of €0.76 per share (U.S. $0.90 per share using the December 30, 2005 Noon Buying Rate), and from April 26, 2001 through May 16, 2006, the closing price of our ADSs ranged from a high of U.S. $15.05 per ADS to a low of U.S. $0.50 per ADS. In recent years, the stock market in general and the shares of technology and telecommunications companies in particular have experienced significant price fluctuations. The market prices of our ordinary shares and ADSs may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to various factors, including: · quarterly variations in operating results or growth rates; · real or perceived changes in our level of indebtedness; · stock market perceptions about the risk of shareholder dilution from future sales of our equity securities; · the announcement of technological innovations; · the introduction of new products by us and our competitors; · changes in estimates by securities analysts; · market conditions in the industry; · announcements and actions by competitors; · regulatory and judicial actions; and · general economic conditions. In addition, because our market capitalization is relatively small and our ordinary shares and ADSs are not highly traded, our ordinary shares and ADSs may be or may become relatively illiquid. 14 We may not continue to qualify for listing on the Nasdaq National Market, which could materially limit the trading market for our ADSs. To maintain our listing on the Nasdaq National Market we are required, among other things, to maintain stockholders’ equity of at least $10 million or a market value of at least $50 million. We must also maintain a closing bid price of at least $1.00 per ADS. On March 15, 2006, Nasdaq notified us that we were not in compliance with the $1.00 minimum closing bid price requirement and provided us their standard grace period of 180 days, or until September 11, 2006, to regain compliance with the minimum bid price requirement. To meet the minimum bid price requirement, our ADSs must close at $1.00 or more per share or more for a minimum of 10 consecutive business days. If we fail to meet the minimum bid price requirement by September 11, 2006, but otherwise continue to meet the Nasdaq initial listing requirements, our ADSs will be transferred to the Nasdaq SmallCap Market and we will have an additional 180-day period in which to meet the minimum bid price requirement. We cannot assure you that the Nasdaq SmallCap Market will provide the same degree of liquidity as our current listing. If we are unable to meet or maintain compliance with all of the Nasdaq listing requirements, our ADSs may be delisted from Nasdaq. Delisting from Nasdaq could adversely affect the trading price of our ADSs, and could significantly limit their liquidity. While our listing on Eurolist by Euronext Paris would not be affected, we cannot assure you that the liquidity afforded by that listing would be sufficient to prevent our share price from being affected by a Nasdaq delisting. In addition, holders of ADSs would be required to convert their ADSs to ordinary shares in order to sell them on Eurolist by Euronext. See Item 12 “Description of Securities other than Equity Securities—American Depositary Shares.” Our stock option plan and deposit agreement include provisions that could have anti-takeover effects or deprive shareholders who do not comply with such provisions of some or all of their voting rights. Under our stock option plan, if any shareholder or group of shareholders acquires ownership of more than 25% of our outstanding share capital, our board of directors will have the right to accelerate the vesting of employee stock options granted under our stock option plans. As of May 16, 2006, options on up to 1,614,751 shares, representing approximately 2.31% of our share capital, are subject to potential accelerated vesting. The ability of the board of directors to accelerate the vesting of stock options could have the effect of deterring a potential bidder from making an offer to acquire our company without the approval of our board. In addition, under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to our ADSs, if a holder of our ADSs fails to instruct the ADS depositary in a timely and valid manner how to vote such holder’s ADSs with respect to a particular matter, the ADS depositary will deem that holder to have given a proxy to a person designated by us to vote the shares underlying the ADSs in favor of resolutions presented or approved by our board of directors and against any other resolution not so presented or approved. This provision of the depositary agreement could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of our company. Exchange rate fluctuations may adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of our ADSs and our dividends (if any). As a holder of ADSs, you may face some exchange rate risk. Although we have no current plans to pay dividends, if and when we do pay dividends, they would be denominated in euro. Fluctuations in the exchange rate between the euro and the U.S. dollar will affect the U.S. dollar amounts received by owners of our ADSs on conversion of dividends, if any. Moreover, these fluctuations may affect the dollar price of our ADSs on the Nasdaq National Market, whether or not we pay dividends. 15 We have not yet distributed any dividends to our shareholders, and do not anticipate doing so in the near future. We currently intend to use all of our operating cash flow to finance our business and service our debt for the foreseeable future. We have never distributed dividends to our shareholders, and we do not anticipate distributing dividends in the near term. Although we may in the future distribute a portion of our earnings as dividends to shareholders, the determination of whether to declare dividends and, if so, the amount of such dividends will be based on facts and circumstances existing at the time of determination. In addition, our credit agreement prohibits us from paying dividends. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that any dividends will be paid for the foreseeable future. We are subject to different corporate disclosure standards that may limit the information available to holders of our ADSs. As a foreign private issuer, we are not required to comply with the notice and disclosure requirements under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the “Exchange Act”) relating to the solicitation of proxies for shareholder meetings. Although we are subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange Act, the periodic disclosure required of non-U.S. issuers under the Exchange Act is more limited than the periodic disclosure required of U.S. issuers. Therefore, there may be less publicly available information about us than is regularly published by or about other public companies in the United States. Judgments of U.S. courts, including those predicated on the civil liability provisions of the federal securities laws of the United States, may not be enforceable in French courts. An investor in the United States may find it difficult to: · effect service of process within the United States against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers; · enforce U.S. court judgments based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers in France; or · bring an original action in a French court to enforce liabilities based upon the U.S. federal securities laws against us and our non-U.S. resident directors and officers. Pre-emptive rights may not be available for U.S. persons. Under French law, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to subscribe for cash issuances of new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares on a pro rata basis. U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares may not be able to exercise pre-emptive rights for their shares unless a registration statement under the Securities Act is effective with respect to such rights or an exemption from the registration requirements imposed by the Securities Act is available. We may, from time to time, issue new shares or other securities giving rights to acquire additional shares (such as warrants) at a time when no registration statement is in effect and no Securities Act exemption is available. If so, U.S. holders of our ADSs or ordinary shares will be unable to exercise their pre-emptive rights. 16 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This annual report contains forward-looking statements. We may also make written or oral forward-looking statements in our periodic reports to the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 6-K, in our annual report to shareholders, in our proxy statements, in our offering circulars and prospectuses, in press releases and other written materials and in oral statements made by our officers, directors or employees to third parties. Examples of such forward-looking statements include: · projections of operating revenues, net income, net earnings per share, capital expenditures, dividends, capital structure or other financial items or ratios; · statements about the future performance of the conferencing industry; · statements about our future economic performance or that of France, the United States or any other countries in which we operate; and · statements of assumptions underlying such statements. Words such as “believe,” “anticipate,” “plan,” “expect,” “intend,” “target,” “estimate,” “project,” “predict,” “forecast,” “guideline,” “should” and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements but are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties. We caution you that a number of important factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Such factors, some of which are discussed under Item 3 “Key Information—Risk Factors” beginning on page 9 of this annual report, include but are not limited to: · uncertainties regarding the market for data conferencing and Web conferencing, and the pricing for these services; · the effects of technological change; · our ability to meet our debt service obligations and to obtain adequate sources of liquidity; · fluctuations in the value of our ordinary shares and ADSs; and · competition from telecommunications providers. We caution you that the foregoing list of factors is not exclusive and that other risks and uncertainties may cause actual results to differ materially from those in forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made. We do not undertake any obligation to update them in light of new information or future developments. 17 