Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business We are dependent on the success of our product candidate, Troxatyl, and we cannot give any assurance that it will receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. Troxatyl, which is our only product candidate in clinical development, is in a pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial for the third-line treatment of Acute Myelogenous Leukemia, or AML. We are conducting or planning additional clinical trials of Troxatyl for other indications. All of our other compounds or potential product candidates are in preclinical development or the discovery stage. Troxatyl may never receive regulatory approval or be successfully commercialized. In July 2004, we in-licensed worldwide rights to Troxatyl from Shire BioChem Inc. Shire has conducted substantially all of the preclinical and clinical development of Troxatyl to date. However, Troxatyl will require additional clinical trials and regulatory clearances which may never be obtained. Our clinical development program for Troxatyl may not lead to a commercial drug either because we fail to demonstrate that it is safe and effective in clinical trials and we therefore fail to obtain necessary approvals from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, and similar foreign regulatory agencies, or because we have inadequate financial or other resources to advance this product candidate through the clinical trial process. Any failure to obtain approval of Troxatyl would have a material and adverse impact on our business. The clinical trial protocol and design for our ongoing pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial of Troxatyl for the third-line treatment of AML may not be sufficient to allow us to submit an NDA for Troxatyl or demonstrate efficacy at the level required by the FDA for product approval. The clinical trial protocol and design for our pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial of Troxatyl for the third-line treatment of AML may prove to be insufficient for product approval. We discussed our clinical development plan and the details of the Phase II/III clinical trial protocol with the FDA in connection with an End-of-Phase II Meeting following our recently concluded Phase I/II clinical trial. We posed specific questions regarding the proposed design, conduct and data analysis approach for our Phase II/III clinical trial to the FDA and received answers to each question and additional comments on other aspects of the protocol design. For example, the FDA suggested that we consider a randomized trial design rather than a single-arm trial design. However, we have decided to conduct the single-arm, open-label clinical trial as originally proposed and discussed with the FDA. We believe that a more traditional prospective, randomized, double-blind, controlled clinical trial is not viable because there currently is no standard of care for the third-line treatment of AML. We intend to compare the data from our single-arm clinical trial design to a selected group of 422 patients described in the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center’s recently published analysis of its experience with third-line treatment of 594 adult AML patients utilizing a variety of cancer drugs. The FDA has indicated that the results of our Phase II/III clinical trial and the published results from M. D. Anderson cannot be directly compared due to differences in the populations enrolled, but that the adequacy of the M. D. Anderson data and other literature to serve as a historical control will be considered during review of the New Drug Application, or NDA, for Troxatyl, if one is submitted. In addition, even if we achieve our desired endpoints for the trial, the results may not be sufficient to demonstrate compelling efficacy to the level required by the FDA for product approval. The FDA also suggested that we submit a Special Protocol Assessment, or SPA, which drug development companies sometimes use to obtain an agreement with the FDA concerning the design and size of a clinical trial intended to form the primary basis of an effectiveness claim. However, we have not submitted and do not plan to 23 Table of Contents submit an SPA for our ongoing Phase II/III clinical trial in part because a complete draft of our Phase II/III clinical protocol was submitted to and discussed with the FDA as part of the End-of-Phase II Meeting. However, without the FDA’s concurrence on an SPA, we cannot be certain that the design, conduct and data analysis approach for our ongoing Phase II/III clinical trial will be sufficient to allow us to submit or receive approval of an NDA for Troxatyl. We are currently in the process of enrolling patients in our Troxatyl Phase II/III clinical trial with targeted enrollment of approximately 211 third-line AML patients or 140 patients considered to be high-risk. If the FDA requires, or we otherwise determine, to amend our protocol, change our clinical trial design, increase enrollment targets or conduct additional clinical trials, our ability to obtain regulatory approval on the timeline we have projected would be jeopardized and we could be required to make significant additional expenditures related to clinical development. Any failure to obtain approval for Troxatyl would have a material and adverse impact on our business. While we may seek to take advantage of various regulatory mechanisms intended to accelerate drug development and approval for Troxatyl for the third-line treatment for AML, we may not be able to submit an NDA for Troxatyl until the third quarter of 2009, at the earliest. If the results of our ongoing pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial of Troxatyl are positive, we plan to file an NDA for Troxatyl on the basis of this single study and seek FDA review under the accelerated approval regulations. Accelerated approval provides the opportunity for regulatory approval based on additional endpoints. However, there is no guarantee that we will successfully complete this Phase II/III clinical trial. Even if the Phase II/III trial is successfully completed, there are no assurances that the FDA will accept an NDA on the basis of a single Phase II/III study or review the NDA under the accelerated approval regulations. Failure to obtain review on the basis of a single study or accelerated approval could require us to complete additional and more extensive clinical trials, which would be costly and time consuming and delay potential FDA approval of Troxatyl for several years. If we do not obtain FDA agreement on these matters, we would not be able to submit an NDA for Troxatyl until the third quarter of 2009, at the earliest. Any failure to obtain accelerated approval of Troxatyl would have a material and adverse impact on our business. Even if we are able to obtain accelerated approval of Troxatyl from the FDA, the FDA still may not grant Troxatyl full approval for commercial sale. The FDA will likely require that we conduct additional post-approval clinical studies as a condition of any approval. If a drug is intended for the treatment of a serious or life-threatening condition and the drug demonstrates the potential to address an unmet medical need for this condition, the drug sponsor may apply for FDA fast track designation. In addition to the benefits of accelerated approval, fast track designation may lead to a shorter FDA review period, which can be as short as six months, and the ability to submit portions of an NDA as they become available for required FDA review. Although the FDA has recently granted us fast track designation for Troxatyl for the third-line treatment of AML, this designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process. Any fast track designation we may obtain may be withdrawn by the FDA if the FDA believes that the designation is no longer supported by data from our clinical development program or if a competitor’s product is approved for the indication we are seeking. Any fast track designation we may obtain will not guarantee that we will qualify for or be able to take advantage of the priority review procedures following the submission of an NDA. Additionally, if fast track designation were to be withdrawn for any product for which we obtain such designation, our ability to receive FDA approval could be delayed considerably. Because the results of preclinical studies and early clinical trials are not necessarily predictive of future results, Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results in later clinical trials, if any, or receive regulatory approval. Positive results from preclinical studies and early clinical trials should not be relied upon as evidence that later-stage or large-scale clinical trials will succeed. We will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in preclinical testing and early clinical trials does not mean that later clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in later-stage clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy despite having progressed through initial clinical testing. Companies frequently suffer significant 24 Table of Contents setbacks in advanced clinical trials, even after earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. In addition, there is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. Our ongoing pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial of Troxatyl may not be successful for a variety of reasons, including the clinical trial design, the failure to enroll a sufficient number of patients, safety concerns and inability to demonstrate sufficient efficacy. In clinical trials to date, Troxatyl has been studied in more than 730 patients. However, most of the patients studied were enrolled in trials conducted by Shire under different dosing regimens and with different clinical endpoints than those we have conducted. Since licensing rights to Troxatyl from Shire in July 2004, we have completed only one Phase I/II clinical trial, which was completed in the second quarter of 2005, in which we administered by continuous intravenous, or IV, infusion doses of Troxatyl to 48 relapsed AML patients. This represents only a portion of the number of patients that will need to be studied to gain regulatory approval of Troxatyl for the third-line treatment of AML. We are currently in the process of enrolling patients in our pivotal Troxatyl Phase II/III clinical trial, with targeted enrollment of approximately 211 third-line AML patients. The data collected from clinical trials with larger patient populations may not demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy to support regulatory approval of Troxatyl or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials. If Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis, or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial we are able to undertake, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate. Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials may cause undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization. Common side effects resulting from dosing of Troxatyl by continuous IV infusion include the inflammation of mucus membranes inside the mouth, known as mucositis, hand and foot syndrome, and rash. Troxatyl can also result in prolonged suppression of blood cell production by the bone marrow, a condition known as aplasia, and overwhelming infection, known as sepsis, often leading to death. Because Troxatyl has been tested in relatively small populations under our current continuous IV infusion dosing regime, additional side effects may be observed as its development progresses. Undesirable side effects caused by Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could prevent us from commercializing Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials and generating revenues from its sale. In addition, if Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; or • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. 25 Table of Contents Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could significantly impact our product development costs. We do not know whether planned clinical trials will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • identifying, recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, patient recruitment and enrollment may be slower than we anticipate. Further, a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of Troxatyl, a BCR-ABL product candidate that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials, the commercial prospects for product candidates we may develop will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any product candidate we may develop will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our products. We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, including our ongoing pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial for Troxatyl. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. The targeted enrollment for our recently initiated pivotal Phase II/III Troxatyl clinical trial is 211 patients, or 140 high risk patients, and we expect to conduct this clinical trial in approximately 60 trial centers in the United States, Canada and Europe. We intend to rely on third parties, such as contract research organizations, medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct this clinical trial and clinical trials for BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis and any other product candidate that we advance into clinical trials. We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to our Phase II/III Troxatyl clinical trial. In the event that we are unable to maintain our relationship with any of our selected clinical trial sites, or elect to terminate the participation of any of these clinical trial sites, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in our ongoing clinical trial unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable 26 Table of Contents clinical trial site may be jeopardized. Moreover, for Troxatyl, we rely on third parties to transport bone marrow samples to the control laboratory and conduct sample evaluation. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data obtained by the control laboratory is compromised due to the failure to adhere to our clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis and any other product candidates we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation, which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of Troxatyl or any other product candidates we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. In the United States, neither we nor our collaborators are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of a New Drug Application, or NDA, from the FDA. The process of obtaining NDA approval is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. In addition, as a company, we have not previously filed an NDA with the FDA. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our product candidates for which development and commercialization is our responsibility. Despite the time and expense invested, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. In addition, we expect to conduct a portion of the pivotal Phase II/III clinical trial for Troxatyl in Italy, France and Germany. As a result, we are subject to regulation by the European Medicines Agency, as well as the regulatory agencies in Italy, France and Germany, and have established a legal representative in the European Union, or E.U., to assist us in our interactions with these regulatory bodies. The FDA or any of the applicable European regulatory bodies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe and effective; • regulatory agencies may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials to be sufficient; • regulatory agencies may not approve of our third party manufacturers’ processes or facilities; or • regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. Also, recent events implicating questions about the safety of marketed drugs, including those pertaining to the lack of adequate labeling, may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. Even if Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials receives regulatory approval, our product candidates may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. If Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials receives U.S. regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidate or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, 27 Table of Contents storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Moreover, in order to market any products outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks described above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United States. As described above, such effects include the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable domestic or foreign regulatory requirements, we and our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Because we exclusively licensed our product candidate, Troxatyl, from Shire and our rights are subject to certain licenses to Shire from third parties, any dispute with Shire or between Shire and any of these third parties may adversely affect our ability to develop and commercialize Troxatyl. In late July 2004, we licensed exclusive worldwide rights to our product candidate, Troxatyl, from Shire. If there is any dispute between us and Shire regarding our rights under the license agreement, our ability to develop and commercialize Troxatyl may be adversely affected. In addition, our exclusive license to Troxatyl is subject to the terms and conditions of a license from Yale University and the University of Georgia Research Foundation, Inc. to Shire. If Shire breaches the terms or conditions of any of these underlying licenses to Shire or otherwise is engaged in a dispute with any of these third party licensors, such breaches by Shire or disputes with Shire could result in a loss of, or other material adverse impact on, our rights under our exclusive license agreement with Shire. Any loss of our rights from Shire or through Shire from these third parties could delay or completely terminate our product development efforts for Troxatyl. Our drug discovery approach and technologies are unproven and may not allow us to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or successful collaborations or result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. The technologies on which we rely are unproven and may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. There are currently no drugs on the market and no drug candidates in clinical development that have been discovered or developed using our proprietary technologies. We have only recently transitioned our business strategy from focusing on our protein structure determination capabilities and developing 28 Table of Contents our technology infrastructure, to focusing on drug discovery and development activities in the field of oncology. Our goal is to internally develop oncology product candidates and to leverage our approach to drug discovery that is based upon the use of small fragments of drug-like molecules, known as Fragments of Active Structures, or FAST, and related technologies, to form lead generation collaborations. Our most advanced development program based on our internal development efforts using FAST is our BCR-ABL program, which is at the preclinical development stage and is currently the subject of a license and collaboration agreement with Novartis. The process of successfully discovering product candidates is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable, and the historical rate of failure for drug candidates is extremely high. Research programs to identify product candidates require a substantial amount of our technical, financial and human resources even if no product candidates are identified. Data from our current research programs may not support the clinical development of our lead compounds or other compounds from these programs, and we may not identify any compounds suitable for recommendation for clinical development. Moreover, any compounds we recommend for clinical development may not be effective or safe for their designated use, which would prevent their advancement into clinical trials and impede our ability to maintain or expand our clinical development pipeline. If we are unable to identify new product candidates or advance our lead compounds into clinical development, we may not be able to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or generate product revenue. Our ability to identify new compounds and advance them into clinical development also depends upon our ability to fund our research and development operations, and we cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. There is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop any product candidate we advance into clinical trials for commercial sale, attract the personnel and expertise required to be engaged in drug development or secure new lead generation collaborations. If we fail to establish new collaborations and other commercial agreements, we may have to reduce or limit our internal drug discovery and development efforts. Revenue generation utilizing our FAST drug discovery platform and related technologies will continue to be important to us in the near term by providing us with funds for reinvestment in our internal drug discovery and development. If we fail to establish a sufficient number of additional collaborations or commercial agreements on acceptable terms, we may not generate sufficient revenue to support our internal discovery and development efforts. In addition, since our existing collaborations and commercial agreements are generally not long-term contracts, we cannot be sure we will be able to continue to derive comparable revenues from these or other collaborations or commercial agreements in the future. Even if we successfully establish collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidates or the generation of sales or royalty revenue. Under our commercial arrangements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as under all of our beamline services agreements, we are providing specific services for fees and milestone payments without any interest in future product sales or profits. While we believe these commercial arrangements help to offset the expenses associated with our drug discovery efforts, we may under some circumstances find it necessary to divert valuable resources from our own development efforts in order to fulfill our contractual obligations. We are dependent on our collaborations, and events involving these collaborations or any future collaborations could prevent us from developing or commercializing product candidates. The success of our current business strategy and our near and long-term viability will depend in part on our ability to successfully establish new strategic collaborations. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize all of the product candidates that may be discovered through our drug discovery platform we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of some of these product candidates or in certain markets for a particular product candidate. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position. And our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on acceptable terms. We have entered into drug discovery collaborations, such as those with Novartis and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. In each case, our collaborators have agreed to finance the clinical trials for product candidates resulting 29 Table of Contents from these collaborations and, if they are approved, manufacture and market them. Accordingly, we are dependent on our collaborators to gain regulatory approval of, and to commercialize, product candidates resulting from most of our collaborations. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators (including collaborators resulting from a change of control) devote to our programs or potential products. In some instances, our collaborators, such as Novartis, may have competing internal programs or programs with other parties, and such collaborators may devote greater resources to their internal or other programs than to our collaboration and any product candidates developed under our collaboration. For example, Novartis markets Gleevec® (imatinib) and has another drug candidate under development that could compete with any BCR-ABL inhibitor that we may develop under our collaboration with Novartis. It is possible that Novartis may devote greater resources to its other competing programs, or may not pursue as aggressively our BCR-ABL program or market as aggressively any BCR-ABL product that may result from our collaboration. Our collaborators may prioritize other drug development opportunities that they believe may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations if: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or proprietary technologies we discover in our collaborations; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs or as a result of general market conditions; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent commercialization of our product candidates; or • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products as a result of the occurrence of any one or a combination of these events, we will be prevented from developing and commercializing product candidates. Conflicts may arise between us and our collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with existing or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability: • disagreements regarding the payment of research funding, milestone payments, royalties or other payments we believe are due to us under our collaboration agreements or from us under our licensing agreements; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations; 30 Table of Contents • actions taken by a collaborator inside or outside a collaboration which could negatively impact our rights under or benefits from such collaboration; • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; or • slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates. We currently depend on one collaboration partner, Novartis, for a portion of our revenues and for the future commercialization of one of our significant research programs. If our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis terminates, our business and, in particular, our BCR-ABL program, will be seriously harmed. In March 2006, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Novartis to develop and commercialize BCR-ABL inhibitors for the treatment of CML. In connection with the license and collaboration agreement, Novartis agreed to pay us a non-refundable, non-creditable license fee of $20 million. Novartis also purchased $5 million of our common stock. Depending upon the success of our collaboration, we may derive a substantial portion of our near-term revenues from Novartis. After the end of the research term under the license and collaboration agreement, Novartis may terminate the license and collaboration agreement upon 60 days written notice if it determines that further development is not viable for competitive, safety, or efficacy reasons. If the license and collaboration agreement is terminated in whole or in part and we are unable to enter into similar arrangements with other collaborators, our business would be materially and adversely affected. Our drug discovery efforts are dependent on continued access to and use of our beamline facility, which is subject to various governmental regulations and policies and a user agreement with the University of Chicago and the U.S. Department of Energy. If we are unable to continue the use of our beamline facility, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or abandon some of our drug discovery efforts, and may fail to perform under our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, which would result in a material reduction in our current primary source of revenue. We generate protein structures through our beamline facility, housed at the Advanced Photon Source at the Argonne National Laboratory, a national synchrotron-radiation facility funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, and Office of Basic Energy Sciences, located in Argonne, Illinois. Accordingly, our access to and use of the facility is subject to various government regulations and policies. In addition, our access to the beamline facility is subject to a user agreement with the University of Chicago and the U.S. Department of Energy with an initial five year term expiring in January 1, 2009. Although the term of our user agreement automatically renews for successive one-year periods, the University of Chicago may terminate the agreement and our access to the beamline facility by providing 60 days’ notice prior to the beginning of each renewal period. In addition, the University of Chicago may terminate the agreement for our breach, subject to our ability to cure the breach within 30 days. In the event our access to or use of the facility is restricted or terminated, we would be forced to seek access to alternate beamline facilities. There are currently only three alternate beamline facilities in the U.S. and two outside the U.S., which are comparable to ours. To obtain equivalent access at a single alternate beamline facility would likely require us building out a new beamline at such facility which could take over two years and would involve significant expense. However, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain equivalent access to such a facility on acceptable terms or at all. In the interim period, we would have to obtain beamlime access at a combination of facilities, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain sufficient access time on acceptable terms or at all. However, we cannot be certain that additional beamline facilities will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If alternate beamline facilities are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or abandon some of our early drug discovery efforts. We may also be deemed to be in breach of certain of our commercial agreements. Even if alternate beamline facilities are available, we cannot be certain that the quality of or access to the alternate facilities will be adequate and comparable to those of our current facility. Failure to maintain adequate access to and use of beamline facilities may materially adversely affect our ability to pursue our own discovery efforts and perform under our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, which are our current primary source of revenue. 31 Table of Contents If our competitors develop drug discovery technologies that are more advanced than ours, our ability to generate revenue from collaborations, commercial arrangements or grants may be reduced or eliminated. The biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries are characterized by rapidly advancing technologies, intense competition and a strong emphasis on proprietary products. We face competition from many different sources, including commercial pharmaceutical and biotechnology enterprises, academic institutions, government agencies, and private and public research institutions. There is also intense competition for fragment-based lead discovery collaborations. In addition, we understand that many large pharmaceutical companies are exploring the internal development of fragment-based drug discovery methods. Additionally, due to the high demand for treatments for AML, CML and other oncology therapeutic areas, research is intense and new technologies to enhance the rapid discovery and development of potential treatments are being sought out and developed by our competitors. If our competitors develop drug discovery technologies that are more advanced or more cost efficient or effective than ours, our revenue from collaborations, commercial arrangements and grants may be substantially reduced or eliminated. If our competitors develop treatments for AML, CML or any other therapeutic area that are approved more quickly, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective than our current or future product candidates, our ability to generate product revenue will be reduced or eliminated. Most cancer indications for which we are developing products have a number of established therapies with which our candidates will compete. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing new cancer development programs, including both therapies with traditional as well as novel mechanisms of action. We are aware of competitive products in each of the markets we target. These competitive products include approved and marketed products as well as products in development. We expect Troxatyl, if approved for the treatment of AML, to compete with: cytarabine, a generic compound often known as Ara-C, which is also used in combination with the anthracycline agents daunorubicin, idarubicin, and mitoxantrone; Mylotarg® (gemtuzumab ozogamicin), marketed by Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Inc.; and Clolartm (clofarabine), marketed by Genzyme Corporation in the United States and under regulatory review in the E.U. In addition, we are aware of a number of other potential competing products, including: cloretazine (VNP40101M), which is being developed by Vion Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and is currently in a Phase III clinical trial in AML patients; Zarnestra® (tipifarnib), under development by Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical Research and Development, LLC; Velcadetm (bortezomib), under development for this indication by Millennium Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Avastintm (bevacizumab), under development for this indication by Genentech, Inc.; Vidaza® (azacitidine), under development for this indication by Pharmion Corporation; and Dacogentm (decitabine), under development by MGI Pharma, Inc. and SuperGen, Inc. We also expect Troxatyl, if used for treatment of MDS, to compete with Revlimid® (lenalodomide), marketed by Celgene, Inc., which has been approved for use in a subset of MDS patients. We expect the company’s BCR-ABL inhibitor, if approved for treatment of CML, to compete with: Gleevec® (imatinib), marketed by Novartis, Inc., AMN-107 (nilotinib), under development by Novartis, Inc., dasatinib, under development by Bristol Myers Squibb, Inc., and SKI-606, under development by Wyeth, Inc. Other potential competing products are in clinical trials and preclinical development. Significant competitors in the area of fragment-based drug discovery include Astex Therapeutics Limited, Plexxikon Inc., Evotec AG and Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, product development, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Large pharmaceutical companies have extensive experience in clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approval for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than us. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer research, some in direct competition with us. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing products for the treatment of AML, CML or other diseases in oncology therapeutic areas in which our drug discovery programs are focused that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any which we may offer or develop. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining 32 Table of Contents approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We have limited experience in identifying, acquiring or in-licensing, and integrating third parties’ products, businesses and technologies into our current infrastructure. If we determine that future acquisition or in-licensing opportunities are desirable and do not successfully execute on and integrate such targets, we may incur costs and disruptions to our business. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a broad pipeline of product candidates. These efforts include potential licensing and acquisition transactions. For example, our product candidate, Troxatyl, was initially developed by Shire and licensed to us in July 2004. Although we are not currently a party to any other agreements or commitments and we have no understandings with respect to any such opportunities other than our agreement with Shire, in addition to our internal drug development efforts, we may seek to expand our product pipeline and technologies, at the appropriate time and as resources allow, by acquiring or in-licensing products, businesses or technologies that we believe are a strategic fit with our business and complement our existing product candidates, research programs and technologies. Future acquisitions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to the development of acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulties in and costs of combining the operations and personnel of any acquired businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees of any acquired businesses. Finally, we may devote resources to potential acquisitions or in-licensing opportunities that are never completed or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. We do not have internal manufacturing capabilities, and if we fail to develop and maintain supply relationships with collaborators or other third party manufacturers, we may be unable to develop or commercialize our products. All of our manufacturing is outsourced to third parties with oversight by our internal managers. For Troxatyl, we currently rely on Raylo Chemicals Inc., a third party supplier for clinical trial quantities of troxacitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Troxatyl. In addition, the final pharmaceutical presentation of Troxatyl in the form of vials is manufactured by Ben Venue Laboratories, Inc., with whom we have an agreement covering immediate clinical trial needs. We currently do not have long-term supply arrangements with either of these suppliers. We intend to continue this practice of outsourcing our manufacturing services to third parties for any future clinical trials and large-scale commercialization of Troxatyl, and for any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials, including those that may result from our collaboration with Novartis. Our ability to develop and commercialize Troxatyl and any other products depends in part on our ability to arrange for collaborators or other third parties to manufacture our products at a competitive cost, in accordance with regulatory requirements and in sufficient quantities for clinical testing and eventual commercialization. We have not manufactured commercial batches of Troxatyl. These collaborators and third-party manufacturers may 33 Table of Contents encounter difficulties with the small- and large-scale formulation and manufacturing processes required to manufacture Troxatyl or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials. Such difficulties could result in delays in our clinical trials and regulatory submissions, in the commercialization of Troxatyl or another product candidate or, if Troxatyl or any other product candidate is approved, in the recall or withdrawal of the product from the market. Further, development of large-scale manufacturing processes may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. Our inability to enter into or maintain agreements with collaborators or capable third party manufacturers on acceptable terms, including our current efforts relating to the production of Troxatyl, could delay or prevent the commercialization of our products, which would adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and could prevent us from achieving or maintaining profitability. Even if we are able to establish additional or replacement manufacturers, the effort to identify these sources and enter into definitive supply agreements may take a substantial amount of time and may not be available on acceptable economic terms. In addition, we, our collaborators or other third party manufacturers of our products must comply with current good manufacturing practice, or cGMP, requirements enforced by the FDA through its facilities inspection program. These requirements include quality control, quality assurance and the maintenance of records and documentation. We, our collaborators or other third party manufacturers of our products may be unable to comply with these cGMP requirements and with other FDA, state and foreign regulatory requirements. We have little control over third party manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. A failure to comply with these requirements may result in fines and civil penalties, suspension of production, suspension or delay in product approval, product seizure or recall, or withdrawal of product approval. If the safety of any quantities supplied by third-parties is compromised due to their failure to adhere to applicable laws or for other reasons, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize Troxatyl or any other product candidates that we may develop. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. In North America, we currently expect to commercialize our product candidate, Troxatyl, (if it is approved), any BCR-ABL product candidates that may result from our collaboration with Novartis, and certain other potential product candidates for other indications that are of strategic interest to us, and plan to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities for those product candidates. We plan to seek third party partners for indications and in territories, such as outside North America, which may require more extensive sales and marketing capabilities. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop in North America will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any products we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop in North America. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. The commercial success of Troxatyl or any other product that we may develop depends upon market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. Even if Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may result from our collaboration with Novartis or any other product we may develop obtains regulatory approval, our products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; 34 Table of Contents • availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If Troxatyl or any of our other product candidates is approved but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become profitable. Furthermore, to the extent Troxatyl fails to gain market acceptance for its initial proposed indication, the third-line treatment of AML, it may be more difficult for us to generate sufficient credibility with physicians and patients to commercialize Troxatyl for other indications. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates, could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provides a new Medicare prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 and mandates other reforms. While we cannot predict the full outcome of the implementation of this legislation, it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other proposals having a similar effect will be adopted. Our ability to commercialize our product candidates successfully will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. We will need to increase the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing growth. As of December 31, 2005, we had 112 full-time employees. In the future, we will need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations and clinical trials, continue our research and development and collaborative activities, and commercialize our product candidates. It is possible that our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate 35 Table of Contents to support this future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, growth and various projects requires that we: • manage our clinical trials effectively; • manage our internal research and development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and other third-parties; • continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures; • set up marketing, sales, distribution and other commercial operations infrastructure; and • attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may result from our collaboration with Novartis and any other future product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and chemists, biologists, and preclinical and clinical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, particularly Michael Grey, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Stephen Burley, our Chief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice President, Research, could delay or prevent the commercialization of our product candidates. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice. We will need to hire additional personnel as we continue to expand our manufacturing, research and development activities. We have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. Risks Relating to our Finances and Capital Requirements We expect our net operating losses to continue for at least several years, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred substantial net operating losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we had a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $29.9 million. For the year ended December 31, 2004, we had a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $19.1 million. As of December 31, 2005, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $135.6 million. We expect our annual net operating losses to increase over the next several years as we expand our research and development activities, and incur significant preclinical and clinical development costs. In particular, we expect our research and development expenses to increase substantially in connection with the further clinical development of Troxatyl. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development efforts and other factors, we are unable to predict 36 Table of Contents the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We will need to obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize Troxatyl, any BCR-ABL product candidate that may result from our collaboration with Novartis or any other future product candidate before we can generate revenues which would have the potential to lead to profitability. Even if we do achieve profitability, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on an ongoing basis. We currently lack a significant continuing revenue source and may not become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant continuing revenues. To obtain significant continuing revenues, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing Troxatyl, BCR-ABL product candidates that may result from our collaboration with Novartis or any other product candidates with significant market potential. We had revenues from collaborations, commercial agreements and grants totaling $21.6 million, $27.3 million, and $18.1 million, for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Though we anticipate that our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants will continue to be our primary source of revenues for the next several years, we do not expect these revenues alone to be sufficient to lead to profitability. Our ability to generate continuing revenues depends on a number of factors, including: • obtaining new collaborations and commercial agreements; • performing under current and future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, including achieving milestones; • successful completion of clinical trials for Troxatyl and any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials; • achievement of regulatory approval for Troxatyl and any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials; and • successful sales, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of our future products, if any. If we are unable to generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. We believe that the net proceeds from our initial public offering, together with interest thereon, our existing cash and cash equivalents, and cash from existing and projected new collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, will be sufficient to meet our projected operating requirements into the second quarter of 2007. However, if we do not generate additional revenue from collaborations, commercial agreements and grants at the levels we project, we may require additional funding sooner than we currently anticipate. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years, if at all, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. Our additional funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including the: • terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish; • rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; • scope, prioritization and number of clinical development and research programs we pursue; • costs and timing of regulatory approval; • costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities; • costs of manufacturing; • extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; 37 Table of Contents • effect of competing technological and market developments; and • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. Until we can generate significant continuing revenues, if ever, we expect to satisfy our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings, or collaborations, commercial agreements and grants. We cannot be certain that additional funding will be available on acceptable terms, or at all. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or our commercialization efforts. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, as we did in our recent collaboration with Novartis, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or research programs; • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; and • changes in accounting principles. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in any one or a combination of the following: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; 38 Table of Contents • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our clinical trials, up to an annual aggregate limit of $3.0 million in the United States, and other amounts in other jurisdictions. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain insurance coverage at a reasonable cost and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We use biological and hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming or costly. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological agents and radioactive isotopes and compounds, that could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our drug development efforts. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in additional patents being issued or that issued patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology, nor can there be any assurance that the patents issued will not be infringed, designed around, or invalidated by third parties. Even issued patents may later be found unenforceable, or be modified or revoked in proceedings instituted by third parties before various patent offices or in courts. The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Only limited protection may be available and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; 39 Table of Contents • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not encompass commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secret information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, and we would not be able to prevent their use. The intellectual property protection for Troxatyl is dependent primarily on third parties and our long term protection is primarily focused on methods of manufacturing and use and formulations. With respect to Troxatyl, Shire retains the right to prosecute and maintain patents covering composition of matter, methods of manufacturing, specific methods of use, formulations, intermediates and modes of administration for this product candidate, while the University of Georgia Research Foundation, Inc. and Yale University are responsible for the patent portfolio related to methods of use for Troxatyl. We only have the right to comment on the patent prosecution. If Shire fails to appropriately prosecute and maintain patent protection for Troxatyl, or the University of Georgia Research Foundation, Inc. and Yale University fail to protect methods of use for Troxatyl, our ability to develop and commercialize Troxatyl may be adversely affected and we may not be able to prevent competitors from making, using and selling competing products. This failure to properly protect the intellectual property rights relating to Troxatyl could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operation. Various patent applications and patents are directed to Troxatyl and its methods of manufacturing and use, along with Troxatyl formulations, intermediates and modes of administration. For example, one U.S. patent claims Troxatyl itself as a composition of matter. This U.S. composition of matter patent is due to expire in 2008 and there are corresponding applications pending in various other countries, as well as a granted European and Japanese patent. Additional U.S. patents encompass methods of treating cancer using Troxatyl, and, for example, methods of treating CML or AML with Troxatyl in patients previously treated with Ara-C, which patents are due to expire in 2015 and 2020, respectively. We cannot guarantee that lack of composition of matter protection after 2008 will not adversely impact our collection of patents with respect to Troxatyl or that any of these patents will be found valid and enforceable, or that third parties will be found to infringe any of our issued patent claims. There can be no assurance that any of the patent applications will issue in any jurisdiction. Moreover, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or the actual enforceable scope of the Troxatyl patents. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. Because 40 Table of Contents patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications, unknown to us, which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our product candidates, proprietary technologies or their uses, or one of these trademarks was found to be infringed, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtain a license to the patent or trademark, as applicable. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent or trademark holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. In addition, we or our collaborators could be required to designate a different trademark name for our products, which could result in a delay in selling those products. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe, which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. We have not conducted an extensive search of patents issued to third parties, and no assurance can be given that third party patents containing claims covering our products, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our technical areas or fields, we believe there is a significant risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our products, technology or methods. In addition, we have not conducted an extensive search of third party trademarks, so no assurance can be given that such third party trademarks do not exist, have not been filed, could not be filed or issued, or could not exist under common trademark law. Other product candidates that we may develop, either internally or in collaboration with others, could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. We may not be able to obtain patent term extension/restoration or other exclusivity for our products which may subject us to increased competition and reduce or eliminate our opportunity to generate product revenue. Various patent applications and patents are directed to Troxatyl and its methods of manufacturing and use, along with Troxatyl formulations, intermediates and modes of administration. For example, one U.S. patent claims Troxatyl itself as a composition of matter. This U.S. composition of matter patent is due to expire in 2008, and there are corresponding applications pending in various other countries, as well as a granted European and Japanese patent. Additional U.S. patents encompass methods of treating cancer using Troxatyl, and methods of treating CML or AML with Troxatyl in patients previously treated with Ara-C, which patents are due to expire in 2015 and 2020, respectively. In some of the major territories, such as the United States, Europe and Japan, patent term extension/restoration may be available to compensate for time taken during aspects of the product’s regulatory review. However, we cannot be certain that an extension will be granted, or if granted, what the applicable time period or the 41 Table of Contents scope of patent protection afforded during any extended period will be. In addition, even though some regulatory agencies may provide some other exclusivity for a product under its own laws and regulations, we may not be able to qualify the product or obtain the exclusive time period. If we are unable to obtain patent term extension/restoration or some other exclusivity, we could be subject to increased competition and our opportunity to establish or maintain product revenue could be substantially reduced or eliminated. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of our Common Stock Market volatility may affect our stock price. Until our initial public offering in February 2005, there was no market for our common stock, and despite our initial public offering, an active public market for these shares may not develop or be sustained. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the development status of or clinical trial results for our product candidates, including the results for our ongoing pivotal Phase II/III trial of Troxatyl; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or collaboration arrangements or other events by us or our competitors; • events affecting our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; and • changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Our management has broad discretion over the use of proceeds from our recent initial public offering of our common stock and may allocate the net proceeds in ways that our stockholders may not approve. We intend to use the net proceeds from the initial public offering of our common stock for: • the clinical development of Troxatyl; • further development of our research programs and initial clinical development stemming from these programs; • working capital and general corporate purposes; and • potential acquisition and in-licensing activities. Our management however, has broad discretion in the application of the net proceeds from our recent initial public offering and could spend the proceeds in ways that do not necessarily improve our operating results or enhance the value of our common stock. 42 Table of Contents Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We may incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, will result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own approximately 62% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. 43 Table of Contents Approximately 72%, of our total outstanding shares are restricted from immediate resale but may be sold into the market in the near future. This could cause the market price of our common stock to decline significantly. Approximately 72%, of our total outstanding shares as of March 27, 2006, as well as an aggregate of 1,810,984 shares issuable upon exercise of options and warrants outstanding as of March 27, 2006 will become available for resale in the public market as shown in the chart below. Number of Shares Type of Securities 8,151,342 Common stock Date of Availability for Resale into Public Market 180 days after January 31, 2006 due to lock-up agreements the holders of these shares have with the underwriters or with us. However, the underwriters can waive these restrictions under the lock-up agreements with the underwriters and allow those stockholders to sell their shares at any time. 1,000,000 Common stock (resulting form conversion of $6.0 million convertible note) Freely tradable pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, subject to the 180-day lock-up referenced above. 1,051,827 Common stock From time to time after expiration of the 180-day lock-up upon completion of their respective one-year holding periods, or earlier if the holders exercise any available registration rights. 637,755 Common stock (purchased by Novartis Pharma AG) From time to time after expiration of the 180-day lock-up upon completion of its one-year holding period, or earlier if Novartis exercises any available registration rights. 1,615,355 Options outstanding under our equity incentive plans Upon the exercise of the options in the future, if ever, with all shares subject to a 180-day lock-up. 195,629 Warrants exercisable for common stock Upon the exercise of the warrants in the future, if ever, with all shares subject to a 180-day lock-up. We filed a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or Securities Act, to register the shares of common stock issuable upon exercise of the outstanding options referenced above as well as shares that we may issue in the future under our 2005 equity incentive plan, 2005 non-employee directors’ stock option plan and 2005 employee stock purchase plan as shown in the chart below: Plan Number of Shares of Common Stock Reserved for Issuance 2005 equity incentive plan 750,000 shares plus the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under our 2000 equity incentive plan that are not covered by outstanding options as of the effective date of this offering or that would otherwise have reverted to the share reserve under the 2000 plan. 2005 non-employee directors’ stock option plan 75,000. 2005 employee stock purchase plan 375,000. The share reserves for our 2005 equity incentive plan, 2005 non-employee directors’ stock option plan and 2005 employee stock option plan are subject to the following increases: • The share reserve for our 2005 equity incentive plan is subject to an automatic annual share increase in an amount up to and including the lesser of 3.5% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding 44 Table of Contents at the end of the fiscal year immediately preceding the increase in the share reserve or 500,000 shares (or a smaller number of shares as may be determined by our board of directors). • The share reserve for our 2005 non-employee directors’ stock option plan is subject to an automatic annual share increase in an amount up to and including the aggregate number of shares subject to options granted to our non-employee directors during the fiscal year immediately preceding the increase in the share reserve (or a smaller number of shares as may be determined by our board of directors). • The share reserve for our 2005 employee stock purchase plan is subject to an automatic annual share increase in an amount up to and including the lesser of 1.0% of the total number of shares of our common stock outstanding at the end of the fiscal year immediately preceding the increase in the share reserve or 150,000 shares (or a smaller number of shares as may be determined by our board of directors). Because each of these plans provides for automatic annual increases to its respective share reserve, such increases will not require stockholder approval. Any increase in our plan share reserves will cause dilution to existing stockholders. Once we register any new shares that we may issue under each of our plans, those shares will be freely tradable upon issuance. If any of these events cause a large number of our shares to be sold in the public market, the sales could reduce the trading price of our common stock and impede our ability to raise future capital. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 