ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Our Business Our limited operating history makes it difficult for us to accurately forecast revenues and appropriately plan our expenses. We were formed in October 1998 and have a limited operating history. As a result, it is difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and plan our operating expenses. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating forecasts and estimates of future revenues from restaurants, which pay us an installation fee for our Electronic Reservation Book, or ERB, a monthly subscription fee and a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations. Revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast due to the uncertainty of the volume and timing of obtaining new restaurant customers and of diners seated through OpenTable reservations. Some of our expenses are fixed, and, as a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. This inability could cause our net income in a given quarter to be lower than expected. The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending, which may remain depressed, or be subject to further deterioration, for the foreseeable future. Some of the factors having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. Because spending for restaurant dining is generally considered to be discretionary, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on our business than on those businesses that sell products or services considered to be necessities. In particular, a significant majority of our restaurant customers are fine-dining restaurants which have been particularly affected by economic downturns such as the one we are currently experiencing. Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our restaurant customers and diners could result in continued reduced traffic in some or all of the restaurants that use our solutions, result in fewer reservations made through our website or the websites of our partners or restaurant customers and lower our profit margins, cause our restaurant customers to go out of business, cause our restaurant customers to terminate their subscriptions to our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. Moreover, the majority of our restaurant customers are located in major metropolitan areas like New York City and the San Francisco Bay Area, and to the extent any one of these geographic areas experiences any of the above described conditions to a greater extent than other geographic areas, the material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results could be exacerbated. 13 Table of Contents We expect a number of factors to cause our operating results to fluctuate on a quarterly and annual basis, which may make it difficult to predict our future performance. Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include: •our ability to accurately forecast revenues and appropriately plan our expenses; •the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending; •our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth; •our ability to effectively manage our growth; •our ability to attract new restaurant customers; •our ability to increase the number of visitors to our website and convert those visitors into diners who reserve a table using our website and then dine with our restaurant customers; •our ability to retain existing restaurant customers and diners or encourage repeat reservations; •our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience through our website and ERB; •our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion; •the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates; •the effects of increased competition in our business; •our ability to keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors; •our ability to successfully manage any acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies; •the success of our marketing efforts; •changes in consumer behavior and any related impact on the restaurant industry, especially in the geographic markets where we operate; •seasonal patterns in restaurant dining; •interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation; •the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel; •our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary ERB; •costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims; •the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events; •the effectiveness of our internal controls; and •changes in government regulation affecting our business. As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. In addition, our operating results may not meet the expectations of investors or public market analysts who follow our company. 14 Table of Contents Our recent growth rate will likely not be sustainable and a failure to maintain an adequate growth rate will adversely affect our net income and our business. Our revenues have grown rapidly, increasing from $27.2 million in 2006 to $41.1 million in 2007, to $55.8 million in 2008, to $68.6 million in 2009, representing a compound annual growth rate of 36%. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods, and you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our net income will be adversely affected, and we may not have adequate resources to execute our business strategy. Growth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure. We have experienced substantial growth in our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of customers enhanced solutions, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our customers, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel. Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed. If we fail to increase the number of our customers or retain existing customers, our revenues and our business will be harmed. In the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 almost all of our revenues were generated by our restaurant customers, who pay us a one-time installation fee, a monthly subscription fee for our ERB and a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our restaurant customers, increasing the number of visitors to our website and then converting those visitors into diners who use our website to make restaurant reservations. Either category of customers may decide not to continue to use our solutions in favor of other means of reserving tables or because of budgetary constraints or other reasons. To grow our base of restaurant customers, we must convince prospective restaurant customers of the benefits of our ERB and related solutions and encourage them to forego the traditional pen-and-paper reservation book to which they are likely accustomed. Due to the fragmented nature of the restaurant industry, many prospective restaurant customers may not be familiar with our solutions and will generally favor using more traditional methods of taking reservations. To increase the number of diners who use our website, we must convince them of the value of our solutions. Our ability to do so is driven in large part by increasing the number of restaurant listings available on our website and also by making the diner's visit to our website a convenient and user-friendly experience. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to expand our restaurant customer base or in continuing to attract diners to make reservations on our website. Our future sales and marketing efforts may be ineffective. If diners choose not to use our solutions or decrease their use of our solutions or we are unable to attract new diners, listings on our website could be reduced, search activity on our website could decline, the usefulness of our solutions could be diminished and we could experience declining revenues. 15 Table of Contents We may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy if we fail to continue to provide our customers with a high-quality customer experience. A critical component of our strategy is providing a high-quality customer experience for both restaurants and diners. Accordingly, the effective performance, reliability and availability of our ERB, website and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and will continue to invest substantial resources in our ERB, website development and functionality and customer service operations. If we do not continue to make such investments and as a result, or due to other reasons, fail to provide a high-quality customer experience, we may lose restaurants and diners from our network, which could significantly decrease the value of our solutions to both groups. Moreover, failure to provide our customers with high-quality customer experiences for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and adversely affect our efforts to develop as a trusted website. We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. In 2004, we established our European headquarters in London and expanded our North American presence in Canada. In 2006, we opened an office in Tokyo and further expanded our North American presence in Mexico. In 2007, we expanded our European presence with offices in France, Germany and Spain. Our ability to expand internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in such expansion, the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future and competitive environments with which we are unfamiliar. Our international operations may not prove to be successful in certain markets. For example, in 2008, we decided to close our offices in France and Spain. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in advance of generating material revenues as we attempt to establish our presence in particular international markets. Our current and any future international expansion plans we choose to undertake will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We do not have substantial experience in selling our solutions in international markets or in conforming to the local cultures, standards or policies necessary to successfully compete in those markets, and we must invest significant resources in order to build a direct sales force and operational infrastructure in such markets. Furthermore, in many international markets we are not the first entrant and there exists greater competition with stronger brand names than we have faced in North American markets. Our ability to expand internationally will also be limited by the demand for our solutions and the adoption of the Internet in these markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer. Any future international operations may also fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including: •difficulties or delays in acquiring a network of restaurant customers in one or more international markets; •different restaurant preferences and dining patterns than those in North America; •varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions; •unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs; •legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to market services or otherwise do business in foreign countries; •less extensive adoption of the Internet as a commerce medium or information source and increased restriction on the content of websites; 16 Table of Contents •difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; •greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection; •currency fluctuations; •potential adverse tax consequences; •lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct electronic commerce transactions; and •price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency. As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand internationally or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2009, we incurred approximately 20% of our operating expenses in pounds sterling, euros, yen and other foreign currencies, while most of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies affect our revenues, costs and expenses, and operating margins, and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the hedging activities and potential accounting implications. The markets for our solutions in North America may become more competitive, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current restaurant customers and diners or attract new restaurants and diners or that our operating margins will not be affected by competition. We expect that the competitive environment for our solutions may become more intense as additional companies enter our North American markets. Currently, our primary competitors in North America are the pen-and-paper reservation book used by most restaurants and the phone used by diners. Secondary competitors include companies who provide computerized reservation management systems with a variety of technologies, as well as allocation-based reservation-taking websites that offer diners the ability to book reservations for a limited selection of restaurant table inventory. These secondary competitors may enhance their technologies to be more competitive, and additional competitors may enter our markets in North America. Any new competitors could have greater name recognition among restaurants and diners and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. Greater financial resources and product development capabilities may allow these competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in restaurant and diner requirements that may render our solutions obsolete. These competitors could introduce new solutions with competitive price and performance characteristics or undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns than ours. If we lose existing restaurant customers and diners or fail to attract new restaurants and diners as a result of increased competition, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our solutions to our customers. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our website and ERB. The Internet and the online commerce industry are rapidly changing. If 17 Table of Contents competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing website, technology and ERB may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to: •enhance our existing solutions; •develop and potentially license new solutions and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and •respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis. Developing our ERB, website and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our website, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure to consumer requirements or emerging industry standards. For example, our website functionality that allows searches and displays of reservation availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our customers' perspective or in relation to the search and display functionality of our competitors' websites. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our customers may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors. Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development, including, for example, our acquisition in October 2009 of substantially all of the assets of GuestBridge, Inc., or GuestBridge, a provider of guest management solutions. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, such as the GuestBridge asset acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate and integrate the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. In addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results. We rely on our marketing efforts to attract new customers and must do so in a cost-effective manner; otherwise our operations will be harmed. A significant component of our business strategy is the promotion of the OpenTable website and ERB. We believe that the attractiveness of our solutions to our current and potential customers, both restaurants and diners, will increase as new restaurants provide additional restaurant listings and diners increasingly use our website to conduct searches and make restaurant reservations. This is because an increase in the number of restaurant listings and the number of diners searching those listings increases the utility of our website and its associated search, listing and reservation services. If we do not continue to grow the use of our website and ERB, we may fail to build the critical mass of both restaurant customers and diners required to substantially increase our revenues. While our marketing efforts do not currently involve significant expenditures, in the future we may find it necessary to invest more heavily in direct marketing or online or traditional advertising. If we are unable to effectively market our solutions to new customers or are unable to do so in a cost-effective manner, our operating results could be adversely affected. 18 Table of Contents System interruptions that impair access to our website would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our ERB, website and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation, our ability to attract and retain both restaurant customers and diners and our ability to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any systems interruption that results in the unavailability of our website or any restaurant connected to our website could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and operating results to suffer. We may experience temporary system interruptions (either to our website or at our restaurant customer locations) for a variety of reasons, including network failures, power failures, software errors or an overwhelming number of visitors trying to reach our website during periods of strong demand. In addition, our primary data center is hosted by a third-party. Because we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel our ability to develop and successfully market our business could be harmed. We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, finance, creative and sales and marketing personnel. Moreover, we believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our named executive officers. All of our U.S. officers and other employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. In addition, the loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our solutions and harm the market's perception of us. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. Further, our principal overseas operations are based in London and Tokyo, which are cities that, similar to our headquarters region, have high costs of living and consequently high compensation standards. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing sales, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business will suffer. Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Our named executive officers have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results. Because our business is heavily dependent on our intellectual property, including our proprietary software, the protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our website, our content and our trademarks. Moreover, policing our 19 Table of Contents proprietary rights is difficult and may not always be effective. In particular, because we sell our solutions internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States. We have registered "OpenTable" and our other trademarks as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. Competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term OpenTable or our other trademarks. From time to time, we have acquired Internet domain names held by others when such names were causing consumer confusion or had the potential to cause consumer confusion. We currently hold the "OpenTable.com" Internet domain name and various other related domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our solutions within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials, or elect not to sell solutions in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and operating results. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name OpenTable in all of the countries in which we currently conduct or intend to conduct business. Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm our operating results. Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results. Other parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Such litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence. For example, on May 12, 2009, Mount Hamilton Partners, LLC, or Mount Hamilton, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking, among other things, a judgment that we have infringed a certain patent held by Mount Hamilton, an injunctive order against the alleged infringing activities and an award for damages. If an injunction is granted, it could force us to stop or alter certain of our business activities, such as certain aspects of the OpenTable Dining Rewards program. We could also be required to pay damages in an unspecified amount. Neither the outcome of the litigation nor the amount and range of potential damages or exposure associated with the litigation can be assessed with certainty. Furthermore, we cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. We are currently involved in the defense of the alleged infringement claims of Mount Hamilton. The defense of these claims and any future infringement claims of Mount Hamilton or another party, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, may result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign 20 Table of Contents our solutions; and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In any event, we may need to license intellectual property which would require us to pay royalties or make one-time payments. We depend in part on licenses of technologies from third parties in order to deliver our solutions, and, as a result, our business is dependent in part on the availability of such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. We currently, and will continue to, license certain technologies from third parties. We cannot be certain that these third-party content licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to successfully integrate the technology into our solutions. These third-party in-licenses may expose us to increased risk, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. The inability to obtain any of these licenses could result in delays in solution development until equivalent technology can be identified and integrated. Any such delays in services could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer. Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information. We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology, including the proprietary software component of our ERB, and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position. Our failure to protect the confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results. Currently, some of our restaurant customers require that diners enter their credit card information to hold a reservation. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and operating results. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. We rely on a third-party customer support service provider for the majority of our customer service calls. If this service provider experiences operational difficulties or disruptions, our business could be adversely affected. We depend on a U.S.-based third-party customer support service provider to handle most of our routine support cases. While we have a small customer service center in our San Francisco headquarters, if our customer support service provider experienced operational difficulties, our ability to respond to customer service calls in a timely manner and the quality of our customer service would 21 Table of Contents be adversely affected, which in turn could affect our reputation and results of operations. While we have a contract with our customer support service provider, either party may terminate the contract for convenience by providing the other party at least 90 days prior notice of its intent to terminate. If for any reason our relationship with our customer support service provider were to end, it would require a significant amount of time to either scale up our San Francisco call center or to hire and train a new customer support service provider. We outsource a portion of our software development to a third-party service provider located in India. Any interruption in our relationship with this service provider could adversely affect our business. If for any reason our relationship with our third-party software development service provider were to end, it would require a significant amount of time to transition the software development work either in-house or to a new third-party service provider. Our contract with this software development service provider has a term ending on December 21, 2010. Either party may terminate the contract at any time by providing the other party at least 30 days prior notice of its intent to terminate. If our third-party software development service provider fails to perform its obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring solutions to market and our reputation could suffer. In addition, our third-party software development service provider is located in India and, as a result, may be subject to geopolitical uncertainty. We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, challenges, acquisitions or unforeseen circumstances. If such capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed. We may require additional capital to expand our business. However, additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. For example, any debt financing secured by us in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. If we do not have funds available to enhance our solutions, maintain the competitiveness of our technology or pursue business opportunities, we may not be able to service our existing customers or acquire new customers. In addition, if we do not have funds available to make strategic acquisitions, we may not be able to expand our business. The inability to raise additional capital could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. If we issue additional shares of common stock to raise capital, it may have a dilutive effect on your investment. If we raise additional capital through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of us. Moreover, any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. A further tightening of the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain short-term debt financing. The recent deterioration of the global economy threatens to cause further tightening of the credit markets, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates. Persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. As a result, we may not be able to secure additional financing in a timely manner, or at all, to meet our future capital needs which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. 22 Table of Contents Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems such as computer viruses or terrorism. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our U.S. corporate offices and the facility we lease to house our computer and telecommunications equipment are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas which have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our or our restaurant customers' businesses or the economy as a whole. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the San Francisco Bay Area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. As we rely heavily on our servers, computer and communications systems and the Internet to conduct our business and provide high quality customer service, such disruptions could negatively impact our ability to run our business and either directly or indirectly disrupt our restaurant customers' businesses, which could have an adverse affect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as H1N1 (swine) flu, avian flu and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by the H1N1 (swine) flu, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, or other similar adverse public health development that causes people to refrain, or prevents people, from dining at restaurants. From April 2009, there have been outbreaks of swine flu, caused by the H1N1 virus, in many regions of the world, including the United States and other countries in which we operate, which has affected the businesses of certain of our restaurant customers. For example, while it did not have a material effect on our business, in April 2009, all of the restaurants in Mexico City, including our restaurant customers there, were closed for a period of approximately two weeks due to the H1N1 (swine) flu. In addition, in recent years some Asian countries have experienced an outbreak of a highly contagious form of atypical pneumonia now known as SARS, and also encountered incidents of the H5N1 strain of influenza, or avian flu. The H1N1 (swine) flu and any future outbreak of SARS, avian flu or other similar adverse public health development may, among other things, significantly disrupt our business. Furthermore, a prolonged recurrence of H1N1 (swine) flu, SARS, avian flu or another pandemic disease could result in a significant decline in demand for restaurant dining and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by reducing traffic in some or all of the restaurants that use our solutions, reducing the number of reservations made through our website or the websites of our partners or restaurant customers, causing our restaurant customers to go out of business, or causing our restaurant customers to terminate their subscriptions to our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us. As a public company, we incur significant increased costs which may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses that we did not incur as a private company, including costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. 23 Table of Contents We have also incurred, and anticipate that we will continue to incur, costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The Nasdaq Stock Market. Furthermore, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the SEC and by The Nasdaq Stock Market, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. We are investing resources to comply with evolving laws and regulations, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Risks Related to Our Industry Seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. We generally experience some effects of seasonality due to increases in restaurant dining tied to certain holidays and restaurant industry promotions. As a result, we typically experience higher sequential growth in diners seated during the first and fourth quarters, as compared with the second and third quarters. Although historically our revenue has increased in each quarter as we have added restaurant customers and diners, in the future this seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we experience may change. If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to online restaurant reservations, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our business will be harmed. Our future net profits are substantially dependent upon the continued use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our target customers. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce. In addition, the Internet may not be accepted as a viable long-term marketplace or resource for a number of reasons, including: •actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection; •possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or to users' computers; and •excessive governmental regulation. Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Our business, which relies on a contextually rich website that requires the transmission of substantial data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high-speed Internet connectivity technologies. Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and operating results. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, tariffs, user privacy, data 24 Table of Contents protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results. Risks Related to Owning Our Common Stock Our stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline. An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in May 2009 at a price of $20.00 per share, our closing stock price has ranged from $24.66 to $37.01. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including: •our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies; •the overall performance of the equity markets; •the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading; •threatened or actual litigation; •changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions; •any major change in our board of directors or management; •publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts; •large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock; and •general political and economic conditions. In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Our directors, executive officers and principal stockholders have substantial control over us and could delay or prevent a change in corporate control. As of December 31, 2009, our directors, executive officers and holders of more than 5% of our common stock, together with their affiliates, beneficially owned, in the aggregate, approximately 73.82% of our outstanding common stock. Moreover, an individual partner of Benchmark Capital Partners IV, L.P., which beneficially owned approximately 16.89% of our outstanding common stock as of December 31, 2009, serves on our board of directors. These stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control, or have significant influence over, the outcome of matters submitted to our stockholders for approval, including the election of directors and any merger, consolidation or sale of all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, these stockholders, acting together, have the ability to control, or have significant influence over, the 25 Table of Contents management and affairs of our company. Accordingly, this concentration of ownership might harm the market price of our common stock by: •delaying, deferring or preventing a change in corporate control; •impeding a merger, consolidation, takeover or other business combination involving us; or •discouraging a potential acquirer from making a tender offer or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline. The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline. Our management will continue to have broad discretion over the use of the proceeds we received in our initial public offering and might not apply the proceeds in ways that increase the value of your investment. Our management will continue to have broad discretion to use the net proceeds we received in our initial public offering. Our management might not apply the net proceeds from the initial public offering in ways that increase the value of our common stock. To date we have not utilized any of our proceeds from the initial public offering. We expect to use the net proceeds to us from the initial public offering for working capital and other general corporate purposes, including the funding of our marketing activities and the costs of operating as a public company, as well as further investment in the development of our proprietary technologies. We may also use a portion of the net proceeds for the acquisition of businesses, solutions and technologies that we believe are complementary to our own. We have not allocated the net proceeds from our initial public offering for any specific purposes. Until we use the net proceeds to us from the initial public offering, we plan to invest them, and these investments may not yield a favorable rate of return. If we do not invest or apply the net proceeds from the initial offering in ways that enhance stockholder value, we may fail to achieve expected financial results, which could cause our stock price to decline. Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include: •a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors; •no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates; •the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors; 26 Table of Contents •the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer; •a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders; •the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and •advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us. We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction. 