Item 1A. Risk Factors You should carefully consider the following information about these risks, together with the other information appearing elsewhere in this report. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects would likely be materially and adversely affected. In these circumstances, the market price of our common stock could decline, and you may lose all or part of your investment in our common stock. Risks Relating to Our Business Our drug discovery approach and technologies are unproven and may not allow us to establish or maintain a clinical development pipeline or result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. Our drug discovery approach and the technologies on which we rely are unproven and may not result in the discovery or development of commercially viable products. There are currently no drugs on the market that have been discovered or developed using our proprietary technologies. The process of successfully discovering and developing product candidates is expensive, time-consuming and unpredictable, and the historical rate of failure for drug candidates is extremely high. Research programs to identify product candidates require a substantial amount of our technical, financial and human resources even if no product candidates are identified. Our product candidates and drug discovery research and development programs are in early stages and require significant time-consuming and costly research and development, testing and regulatory approvals. We have only one clinical stage product candidate, SGX523, an inhibitor of the MET protein kinase and we have observed dose limiting toxicity in our Phase 1 clinical trials of SGX523 at lower doses than anticipated. As a result, the future clinical development of SGX523 is uncertain and we may never be able to identify a safe and efficacious dose for SGX523 or advance it through clinical development and develop a commercially viable product. Our other programs are at the preclinical or research stage. There is no guarantee that we will be successfully create and advance product candidates through preclinical or clinical development or that our approach to drug discovery will lead to the development of approvable or marketable drugs. Moreover, other than BCR-ABL, there is presently little or no clinical validation for the targets which are the focus of the programs in our oncology pipeline. Although drugs have been approved that inhibit the activity of kinases and other enzymes, to our knowledge no company has received regulatory approval for a MET kinase inhibitor and there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully advance SGX523 or any other compounds from our kinase inhibitor programs. In addition, compounds we recommend for clinical development in any of our programs may not be effective or safe for their designated use, which would prevent their advancement into and through clinical trials and impede our ability to maintain or expand our clinical development pipeline. Although it has been our goal to file one IND per year, to date, we have filed only one IND for an internally developed product candidate. We may never successfully file any other INDs or commence clinical trials of any other internally developed compounds. Because the results of preclinical studies are not necessarily predictive of results in humans, any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may not have favorable results or receive regulatory approval. There can be no assurance that additional preclinical work conducted in the future will be positive or supportive of continued development of any product candidate. Even if product candidates advance through preclinical development, positive results from preclinical studies should not be relied upon as evidence that clinical trials will succeed. We will be required to demonstrate through clinical trials that our product candidates are safe and effective for use in a diverse population before we can seek regulatory approvals for their commercial sale. Success in preclinical testing does not mean that clinical trials will be successful because product candidates in clinical trials may fail to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy despite having progressed through preclinical 14 Table of Contents testing. For example, in our SGX523 clinical trials we observed toxicity in patients that was not anticipated from the preclinical studies. Companies frequently suffer significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after preclinical and earlier clinical trials have shown promising results. If negative preclinical results are seen in one compound from a particular chemical series, there may be an increased likelihood that additional compounds from that series will demonstrate the same or similar negative results. There is typically an extremely high rate of attrition from the failure of drug candidates proceeding through clinical trials. Since SGX523 has demonstrated dose limiting toxicities at lower doses than anticipated, its future clinical development is uncertain. If any product candidate fails to demonstrate sufficient safety and efficacy in any clinical trial we are able to undertake, we would experience potentially significant delays in, or be required to abandon, development of that product candidate which may cause our stock price to decline and may materially and adversely affect our business. Part of our strategy is to select drug discovery and development targets for which there is strong scientific evidence that DNA abnormalities activate the target protein and to design and execute initial clinical trials involving patients who are selected on the basis of strong scientific evidence of the requisite activating DNA abnormality. Our goal from this strategy is to potentially decrease the time required to conduct the clinical trial, reduce the number of patients enrolled in the clinical trial, and reduce the cost of the clinical trial as compared to conventional more inclusive large-scale clinical trials. However, there is no guarantee that this strategy will be successful and that we will be able to decrease the time required to conduct clinical trials or reduce the number of patients or costs of such trials. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing could result in increased costs to us and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. Delays in the commencement or completion of clinical testing of SGX523 or any other product candidate we advance into clinical studies could significantly impact our product development costs and delay our ability to generate significant revenues. While the Phase 1 clinical trials for SGX523 commenced on schedule, we have experienced a setback in the clinical trials and we do not know whether they will be completed on schedule, or at all, or if any other clinical trials that we may plan in the future will begin on time or be completed on schedule, if at all. The commencement of clinical trials can be delayed for a variety of reasons, including delays in: • identifying and selecting a suitable development candidate; • successful completion of toxicology, formulation or other preclinical studies; • obtaining any required approvals from our collaborators, such as Novartis for any BCR-ABL product candidates that may be selected under our license and collaboration agreement with Novartis; • obtaining regulatory approval to commence a clinical trial; • reaching agreement on acceptable terms with prospective contract research organizations and trial sites; • manufacturing sufficient quantities of a product candidate; • obtaining institutional review board approval to conduct a clinical trial at a prospective site; and • identifying, recruiting and enrolling patients to participate in a clinical trial. In addition, once a clinical trial has begun, patient recruitment and enrollment may be slower than we anticipate for a number of reasons including unexpected safety issues or patient availability. For instance, for SGX393 or any other BCR-ABL product candidate that may be selected for clinical development, we may have difficulty in recruiting a sufficient number of patients on an acceptable timeline due to the competing product candidates in clinical development and the relatively small number of patients available in the initial indication which we would expect to target. Patient enrollment may also slow as a result of safety issues that emerge during the trial, the relatively small number of patients and the significant health issues of patients suffering from the indication we are targeting. Further a clinical trial may be suspended or terminated by us, our data and safety monitoring board, our collaborators, the FDA or other regulatory authorities due to a number of factors, including: • failure to conduct the clinical trial in accordance with regulatory requirements or our clinical protocols; 15 Table of Contents • inspection of the clinical trial operations or trial site by the FDA or other regulatory authorities resulting in the imposition of a clinical hold; • unforeseen safety issues or insufficient efficacy; or • lack of adequate funding to continue the clinical trial. If we experience delays in the completion of, or termination of, any clinical trial of SGX523, SGX393, or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials, the commercial prospects for product candidates we may develop will be harmed, and our ability to generate product revenues from any product candidate we may develop will be delayed. In addition, many of the factors that cause, or lead to, a delay in the commencement or completion of clinical trials may also ultimately lead to the denial of regulatory approval of a product candidate. Even if we are able to ultimately commercialize product candidates, other therapies for the same indications may have been introduced to the market during the period we have been delayed and such therapies may have established a competitive advantage over our products. Any product candidate we advance into clinical trials may cause undesirable side effects that could delay or prevent its regulatory approval or commercialization. Undesirable side effects caused by SGX523 such as those we have observed in our Phase 1 clinical trials or any other product candidate we advance into clinical trials could interrupt, delay or halt clinical trials and could result in the denial of regulatory approval by the FDA or other regulatory authorities for any or all targeted indications. This, in turn, could inhibit or prevent us from partnering or commercializing SGX523 or any other product candidates we advance into clinical trials and our business would be materially adversely affected. In addition, if any product candidate receives marketing approval and we or others later identify undesirable side effects caused by the product: • regulatory authorities may withdraw their approval of the product; • we may be required to change the way the product is administered, conduct additional clinical trials or change the labeling of the product; or • our reputation may suffer. Any one or a combination of these events could prevent us from achieving or maintaining market acceptance of the affected product or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing the product, which in turn could delay or prevent us from generating significant revenues from the sale of the product. We have limited manufacturing experience. We primarily rely on third parties to provide sufficient quantities of our product candidates to conduct preclinical and clinical studies. We have no control over our manufacturers’ and suppliers’ compliance with manufacturing regulations, and their failure to comply could result in an interruption in the supply of our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in relatively small quantities for preclinical and clinical trials. We have no experience in manufacturing any of our product candidates and have contracted with third party manufacturers to provide material for preclinical studies and clinical trials and to assist in the development and optimization of our manufacturing processes and methods. We currently rely on a single manufacturer for SGX523 and SGX126 and another single manufacturer for SGX393. Our ability to conduct clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates will depend on the ability of such third parties to manufacture our product candidates on the timeline we have set and in accordance with cGMP and other regulatory requirements, and for clinical studies beyond the Phase 1 studies, to manufacture on a large scale and at a competitive cost. Significant scale-up of manufacturing which will be required for large scale clinical studies may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. If we are not able to obtain contract cGMP manufacturing on commercially reasonable terms, obtain or develop the necessary materials and technologies for manufacturing, or obtain intellectual property rights necessary for manufacturing, we may not be able to conduct or complete clinical trials or commercialize our product candidates. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain such requisite terms, materials, technologies and intellectual property necessary to successfully manufacture our product candidates for clinical trials or commercialization. Our product candidates require precise, high-quality 16 Table of Contents manufacturing. The failure to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards, including the incidence of manufacturing errors or the failure to maintain consistent standards across different batches, could result in delays in commencement of clinical studies, patient injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously hurt our business. For SGX393 we have not yet determined the appropriate formulation for clinical studies and there is no guarantee that we will successfully determine an appropriate formulation to move the product candidate into clinical studies. The facilities used by our contract manufacturers must undergo inspections by the FDA for compliance with cGMP regulations before our product candidates produced there can receive marketing approval. If these facilities do not receive a satisfactory cGMP inspection result in connection with the manufacture of our product candidates, we may need to conduct additional validation studies, or find alternative manufacturing facilities, either of which would result in significant cost to us as well as a delay of up to several years in obtaining approval for any affected product candidate. In addition, after approval of a product candidate for commercial use our contract manufacturers, and any alternative contract manufacturer we may utilize, will be subject to ongoing periodic inspection by the FDA and corresponding state and foreign agencies for compliance with cGMP regulations, similar foreign regulations and other regulatory standards. We do not have control over our contract manufacturers’ compliance with these regulations and standards. Any failure by our third-party manufacturers or suppliers to comply with applicable regulations could result in sanctions being imposed on them (including fines, injunctions and civil penalties), failure of regulatory authorities to grant marketing approval of our product candidates, delays, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, license revocation, seizures or recalls of product candidates or products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. Materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates currently under development may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay our development and commercialization of these drugs. Some of the materials necessary for the manufacture of our product candidates currently under development may, from time to time, be available either in limited quantities, or from a limited number of manufacturers, or both. We and/or our collaborators need to obtain these materials for our clinical trials and, potentially, for commercial distribution when and if we obtain marketing approval for these compounds. Suppliers may not sell us these materials at the time we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. If we are unable to obtain the materials needed for the conduct of our clinical trials, product testing and potential regulatory approval could be delayed, adversely impacting our ability to develop the product candidates. If it becomes necessary to change suppliers for any of these materials or if any of our suppliers experience a shutdown or disruption in the facilities used to produce these materials, due to technical, regulatory or other problems, it could significantly hinder or prevent manufacture of our drug candidates and any resulting products. The success of our BCR-ABL inhibitor program depends heavily on the activities of Novartis. If Novartis is unable to identify any development candidates or is unwilling to further develop or commercialize development candidates that may be identified under the collaboration, or experiences significant delays in doing so, our business may be harmed. As the research term of our collaboration with Novartis ended in late March 2008 and Novartis is responsible for the further discovery and development of drug candidates identified under the collaboration, other than SGX393, the future success of our BCR-ABL program for the treatment of front-line CML will depend in large part on the activities of Novartis with respect to compounds and potential drug candidates licensed to Novartis under the collaboration agreement. To date, the nomination of a development candidate has taken longer than anticipated, and we may experience further delays in the collaboration’s progress. It is possible that we and Novartis may never select a development candidate or commence clinical trials. We do not have a significant history of working together with Novartis and cannot predict the progress and success of the collaboration. While Novartis is subject to certain diligence obligations under the collaboration agreement, we cannot guarantee that Novartis will not reduce or curtail its efforts to discover and develop product candidates under the collaboration, because of changes in its research and development budget, its internal development priorities, the success or failure of its other product candidates or other factors affecting its business or operations. For example, Novartis markets Gleevec® (imatinib mesylate) and has other drug candidates under development that could compete with any BCR-ABL inhibitor that 17 Table of Contents may be developed under our collaboration with Novartis. It is possible that Novartis may devote greater resources to its other competing programs, or may not pursue as aggressively our BCR-ABL program or market as aggressively any BCR-ABL product that may result from our collaboration. Any product candidates we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation, compliance with which can be costly and time consuming, cause unanticipated delays or prevent the receipt of the required approvals to commercialize our product candidates. The clinical development, manufacturing, labeling, storage, record-keeping, advertising, promotion, export, marketing and distribution of any other product candidates we advance into clinical trials are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA in the United States and by comparable governmental authorities in foreign markets. In the United States, neither we nor our collaborators are permitted to market our product candidates until we or our collaborators receive approval of an NDA from the FDA. The process of obtaining NDA approval is expensive, often takes many years, and can vary substantially based upon the type, complexity and novelty of the products involved. Approval policies or regulations may change. In addition, as a company, we have not previously filed an NDA with the FDA. This lack of experience may impede our ability to obtain FDA approval in a timely manner, if at all, for our product candidates for which development and commercialization is our responsibility. Despite the time and expense invested, regulatory approval is never guaranteed. The FDA or any of the applicable European, Canadian or other regulatory bodies can delay, limit or deny approval of a product candidate for many reasons, including: • a product candidate may not be safe and effective; • regulatory agencies may not find the data from preclinical testing and clinical trials to be sufficient; • regulatory agencies may not approve of our third party manufacturers’ processes or facilities; or • regulatory agencies may change their approval policies or adopt new regulations. In addition, while we may seek to take advantage of various regulatory processes intended to accelerate drug development and approval for SGX393 , there is no guarantee that the FDA will review or accept an NDA under the accelerated approval regulations, based on our clinical trial design, the results of any clinical trials we may conduct or other factors. Also, recent events implicating questions about the safety of marketed drugs, including those pertaining to the lack of adequate labeling, may result in increased cautiousness by the FDA in reviewing new drugs based on safety, efficacy or other regulatory considerations and may result in significant delays in obtaining regulatory approvals. Any delay in obtaining, or inability to obtain, applicable regulatory approvals would prevent us from commercializing our product candidates. We have limited clinical development and commercialization experience. We have very limited experience conducting clinical trials and have never obtained regulatory approvals for any drug. To date, we have filed only one IND application, initiated two Phase 1 clinical trials, and one Phase 2/3 clinical trial (which was ultimately suspended and terminated). We have not filed an NDA or commercialized a drug. We have no experience as a company in the sale, marketing or distribution of pharmaceutical products and do not currently have a sales and marketing organization. Developing commercialization capabilities will be expensive and time-consuming, could delay any product launch, and we may not be able to develop a successful commercial organization. To the extent we are unable or determine not to acquire these resources internally, we would be forced to rely on third-party clinical investigators, clinical research or marketing organizations. If we were unable to establish adequate capabilities independently or with others, our drug development and commercialization efforts could fail and we may be unable to generate product revenues. 18 Table of Contents We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or commercialize our product candidates. We rely on third parties, such as medical institutions, clinical investigators and contract laboratories, to conduct our SGX523 clinical trials and any other future clinical trials. We may not be able to control the amount and timing of resources that third parties devote to any clinical trials we may commence or the quality or timeliness of the services performed by such third parties. In any of our clinical trials, in the event that we are unable to maintain our relationship with any clinical trial sites, or elect to terminate the participation of any clinical trial sites, we may experience the loss of follow-up information on patients enrolled in such clinical trial unless we are able to transfer the care of those patients to another qualified clinical trial site. In addition, principal investigators for our clinical trials may serve as scientific advisors or consultants to us from time to time and receive cash or equity compensation in connection with such services. If these relationships and any related compensation result in perceived or actual conflicts of interest, the integrity of the data generated at the applicable clinical trial site may be jeopardized. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or obligations or meet expected deadlines in connection with any future clinical trials, or if the quality or accuracy of the clinical data is compromised due to the failure to adhere to clinical protocols or for other reasons, our clinical trials may be extended, delayed or terminated, our reputation in the industry and in the investment community may be significantly damaged, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval for or successfully commercialize our product candidates. Even if any product candidate we advance into clinical trials receives regulatory approval, our product candidates may still face future development and regulatory difficulties. If any product candidate we advance into clinical trials receives U.S. regulatory approval, the FDA may still impose significant restrictions on the indicated uses or marketing of the product candidate or impose ongoing requirements for potentially costly post-approval studies. In addition, regulatory agencies subject a product, its manufacturer and the manufacturer’s facilities to continual review and periodic inspections. If a regulatory agency discovers previously unknown problems with a product, such as adverse events of unanticipated severity or frequency, or problems with the facility where the product is manufactured, a regulatory agency may impose restrictions on that product, our collaborators or us, including requiring withdrawal of the product from the market. Our product candidates will also be subject to ongoing FDA requirements for the labeling, packaging, storage, advertising, promotion, record-keeping and submission of safety and other post-market information on the drug. If our product candidates fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, a regulatory agency may: • issue warning letters; • impose civil or criminal penalties; • withdraw regulatory approval; • suspend any ongoing clinical trials; • refuse to approve pending applications or supplements to approved applications filed by us or our collaborators; • impose restrictions on operations, including costly new manufacturing requirements; or • seize or detain products or require a product recall. Moreover, in order to market any products outside of the United States, we and our collaborators must establish and comply with numerous and varying regulatory requirements of other countries regarding safety and efficacy. Approval procedures vary among countries and can involve additional product testing and additional administrative review periods. The time required to obtain approval in other countries might differ from that required to obtain FDA approval. The regulatory approval process in other countries may include all of the risks described above regarding FDA approval in the United States. Regulatory approval in one country does not ensure regulatory approval in another, but a failure or delay in obtaining regulatory approval in one country may negatively impact the regulatory process in others. Failure to obtain regulatory approval in other countries or any delay or setback in obtaining such approval could have the same adverse effects detailed above regarding FDA approval in the United 19 Table of Contents States. As described above, such effects include the risk that our product candidates may not be approved for all indications requested, which could limit the uses of our product candidates and adversely impact potential royalties and product sales, and that such approval may be subject to limitations on the indicated uses for which the product may be marketed or require costly, post-marketing follow-up studies. If we or our collaborators fail to comply with applicable domestic or foreign regulatory requirements, we and our collaborators may be subject to fines, suspension or withdrawal of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products, operating restrictions and criminal prosecution. We are dependent on our collaborations, and events involving these collaborations or any future collaborations could prevent us from developing or commercializing product candidates. The success of our current business strategy and our near and long-term viability will depend in part on our ability to successfully maintain our existing collaborations and establish new strategic collaborations. Since we do not currently possess the resources necessary to independently develop and commercialize all of the product candidates that we have discovered and that may be discovered through our drug discovery platform, we may need to enter into additional collaborative agreements to assist in the development and commercialization of some of these product candidates or in certain markets for a particular product candidate. Establishing strategic collaborations is difficult and time-consuming. Potential collaborators may reject collaborations based upon their assessment of our financial, regulatory or intellectual property position or the safety or efficacy profiles of product candidates. And our discussions with potential collaborators may not lead to the establishment of new collaborations on acceptable terms. In addition, if as a result of our financial condition or other factors we enter into a strategic collaboration while a drug candidate program is in early preclinical development, we may not generate as much near- or longer-term revenue from such program as we could have generated if we had the resources to further independently develop such program. We have entered into drug discovery collaborations, such as those with Novartis and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation. In each case, our collaborators have agreed to finance the clinical trials for product candidates resulting from these collaborations and, if they are approved, manufacture and market them. Accordingly, we are dependent on our collaborators to gain regulatory approval of, and to commercialize, product candidates resulting from most of our collaborations. Depending upon the success of our collaboration with Novartis, we may derive a substantial portion of our near-term revenues from Novartis. However, it has taken longer than anticipated to identify a development candidate under this collaboration and there is no guarantee that a development candidate will be identified. No further research funding will be received under the collaboration as a result of the conclusion of the research term of the collaboration in late March 2008. At this time, an IND for a development candidate under the collaboration is not anticipated in 2008 and it is possible that an IND may never be filed. While Novartis is subject to certain diligence obligations under the collaboration agreement, we cannot guarantee that Novartis will not reduce or curtail its efforts to develop product candidates that may be identified under the collaboration, because of changes in its research and development budget, its internal development priorities, the success or failure of its other product candidates or other factors affecting its business or operations. If no development candidates are identified under the collaboration or Novartis determines that the further development of compounds being developed under the collaboration is not viable for competitive, safety or efficacy reasons, our business may be materially and adversely affected. We have limited control over the amount and timing of resources that our current collaborators or any future collaborators (including collaborators resulting from a change of control) devote to our programs or potential products. In some instances, our collaborators, such as Novartis, may have competing internal programs or programs with other parties, and such collaborators may devote greater resources to their internal or other programs than to our collaboration and any product candidates developed under our collaboration. Our collaborators may prioritize other drug development opportunities that they believe may have a higher likelihood of obtaining regulatory approval or may potentially generate a greater return on investment. These collaborators may breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their collaborative activities successfully and in a timely manner. Further, our collaborators may not develop products that arise out of our collaborative arrangements, such as SGX393, or devote sufficient resources to the development, manufacture, marketing or sale of these products. Moreover, in the event of termination of a collaboration agreement, termination negotiations may result in less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. 20 Table of Contents We and our present and future collaborators may fail to develop or effectively commercialize products covered by our present and future collaborations for a variety of reasons, including: • we do not achieve our objectives under our collaboration agreements; • we or our collaborators are unable to obtain patent protection for the product candidates or proprietary technologies we discover in our collaborations; • we are unable to manage multiple simultaneous product discovery and development collaborations; • our potential collaborators are less willing to expend their resources on our programs due to their focus on other programs, including their internal programs, or as a result of general market conditions; • our collaborators become competitors of ours or enter into agreements with our competitors; • we or our collaborators encounter regulatory hurdles that prevent the further development or commercialization of our product candidates; or • we develop products and processes or enter into additional collaborations that conflict with the business objectives of our other collaborators. If we or our collaborators are unable to develop or commercialize products as a result of the occurrence of any one or a combination of these events, our business may be seriously harmed. Conflicts may arise between us and our collaborators that could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates. Conflicts may arise between our collaborators and us, such as conflicts concerning which compounds, if any, to select for pre-clinical or clinical development, the interpretation of clinical data, the achievement of milestones, the interpretation of financial provisions, the exercise of reacquisition or other rights or the ownership of intellectual property developed during the collaboration. If any conflicts arise with existing or future collaborators, they may act in their self-interest, which may be adverse to our best interests. Any such disagreement between us and a collaborator could result in one or more of the following, each of which could delay or prevent the development or commercialization of our product candidates, and in turn prevent us from generating sufficient revenues to achieve or maintain profitability: • disagreements regarding the payment of research funding, milestone payments, royalties or other payments we believe are due to us under our collaboration agreements or from us under our licensing agreements; • uncertainty regarding ownership of intellectual property rights arising from our collaborative activities, which could prevent us from entering into additional collaborations; • actions taken by a collaborator inside or outside a collaboration which could negatively impact our rights under or benefits from such collaboration; • unwillingness on the part of a collaborator to keep us informed regarding the progress of its development and commercialization activities or to permit public disclosure of the results of those activities; or • slowing or cessation of a collaborator’s development or commercialization efforts with respect to our product candidates. If we fail to establish new collaborations and other commercial agreements, we may have to reduce or limit our internal drug discovery and development efforts and our business may be adversely affected. Revenue generation utilizing compounds identified by us from the application of our technologies, such as SGX523, and our FAST drug discovery platform and related technologies, is important to us to provide us with funds for reinvestment in our internal drug discovery and development programs. If we fail to enter into a collaboration or out-licensing agreement on SGX523 or SGX126 or establish other collaborations, commercial agreements or out-licensing arrangements on acceptable terms, we may not generate sufficient revenue to support our internal discovery and development efforts. In addition, since our existing collaborations and commercial 21 Table of Contents agreements are generally not long-term contracts, we cannot be sure we will be able to continue to derive comparable revenues from these or other collaborations or commercial agreements in the future. Even if we successfully establish collaborations, these relationships may never result in the successful development or commercialization of any product candidates or the generation of sales or royalty revenue. Under our commercial arrangements with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, such as under all of our beamline services agreements, we are providing specific services for fees without any interest in future product sales or profits. While we believe these commercial arrangements help to offset the expenses associated with our drug discovery efforts, they may force us to divert valuable resources from our own discovery efforts in order to fulfill our contractual obligations. Our drug discovery efforts are dependent on continued access to and use of our beamline facility, which is subject to various governmental regulations and policies and a user agreement with the University of Chicago and the U.S. Department of Energy. If we are unable to continue the use of our beamline facility, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or abandon some of our drug discovery efforts, and may fail to perform under our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, which would result in a material reduction in our revenue. We generate protein structures through our beamline facility, housed at the Advanced Photon Source at the Argonne National Laboratory, a national synchrotron-radiation facility funded by the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Science, and Office of Basic Energy Sciences, located in Argonne, Illinois. Accordingly, our access to and use of the facility is subject to various government regulations and policies. In addition, our access to the beamline facility is subject to a user agreement with the University of Chicago and the U.S. Department of Energy with an initial five year term expiring in January 1, 2009. Although the term of our user agreement automatically renews for successive one-year periods, the University of Chicago may terminate the agreement and our access to the beamline facility by providing 60 days’ notice prior to the beginning of each renewal period. In addition, the University of Chicago may terminate the agreement for our breach, subject to our ability to cure the breach within 30 days. In the event our access to or use of the facility is restricted or terminated, we would be forced to seek access to alternate beamline facilities. There are currently only a very small number of alternate beamline facilities worldwide, which we believe are comparable to ours. To obtain equivalent access at a single alternate beamline facility would likely require us building out a new beamline at such facility which could take over two years and would involve significant expense. However, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain equivalent access to such a facility on acceptable terms or at all. In the interim period, we would have to obtain beamline access at a combination of facilities, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain sufficient access time on acceptable terms or at all. If alternate beamline facilities are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or abandon some of our early drug discovery efforts. We may also be deemed to be in breach of certain of our commercial agreements. Even if alternate beamline facilities are available, we cannot be certain that the quality of or access to the alternate facilities will be adequate and comparable to those of our current facility. Failure to maintain adequate access to and use of beamline facilities may materially adversely affect our ability to pursue our own discovery efforts and perform under our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, which are our current primary source of revenue. If our competitors develop treatments for cancer indications we target that are approved more quickly, marketed more effectively or demonstrated to be more effective or safer than our current or future product candidates, our ability to generate product revenue will be reduced or eliminated. Most cancer indications for which we are developing products have a number of established therapies with which our product candidates will compete. Most major pharmaceutical companies and many biotechnology companies are aggressively pursuing new cancer development programs, including both therapies with traditional as well as novel mechanisms of action. In addition to programs that specifically compete with ours, our product candidates could be adversely affected by new approaches to the treatment of cancer. We are aware of competitive products in each of the markets we target. These competitive products include approved and marketed products as well as products in development. With respect to SGX523, we are aware of a number of companies working in the area of small molecule inhibitors of MET, which are at varying stages of 22 Table of Contents preclinical or clinical development, including Exelixis, Inc., Arqule, Inc., Pfizer, Inc., SuperGen, Inc., Methylgene Inc., and Merck and Co. Ltd. We are also aware of a number of companies working in the area of biological agents that interfere with MET, which are at varying stages of preclinical or clinical development, including Amgen, Inc., Schering Plough Corporation, Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited, Genentech, Inc. and Astra Zeneca Ltd. With respect to our BCR-ABL inhibitors, we are aware of a number of companies working in this area which are at varying stages of preclinical or clinical development, including Bristol Myers Squibb, Inc., Merck and Co., Wyeth, Inc., Innovive Pharmaceuticals, Inc., ChemGenex, Inc., Kyowa Hakko Kogyo Pharma, Inc., Exelixis, Inc., Ariad Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Kinex Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Pfizer, Inc., and Deciphera Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Significant competitors in the area of fragment-based drug discovery include Astex Therapeutics Limited, Plexxikon Inc., Evotec AG, Vernalis Plc., Sunesis Pharmaceuticals, Inc., and Active Site, Inc. In addition, many large pharmaceutical companies are exploring the internal development of fragment-based drug discovery methods. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial, product development, manufacturing and marketing resources than us. Large pharmaceutical companies have extensive experience in clinical testing and obtaining regulatory approval for drugs. These companies also have significantly greater research capabilities than us. In addition, many universities and private and public research institutes are active in cancer research, some in direct competition with us. Smaller or early-stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. Our competitors may succeed in developing products for the treatment of diseases in oncology therapeutic areas in which our drug discovery programs are focused that are more effective, better tolerated or less costly than any which we may offer or develop. Our competitors may succeed in obtaining approvals from the FDA and foreign regulatory authorities for their product candidates sooner than we do for ours. We will also face competition from these third parties in recruiting and retaining qualified scientific and management personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, and in acquiring and in-licensing technologies and products complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. We have limited experience in identifying, acquiring or in-licensing, and integrating third parties’ products, businesses and technologies into our current infrastructure. If we determine that future acquisition, in-licensing or other strategic opportunities are desirable and do not successfully execute on and integrate such targets, we may incur costs and disruptions to our business. An important part of our business strategy is to continue to develop a broad pipeline of product candidates. These efforts may include potential licensing and acquisition transactions. Although we are not currently a party to any in-licensing agreements or commitments, we may, seek to expand our product pipeline and technologies, at the appropriate time and as resources allow, by acquiring or in-licensing products, or combining with businesses that we believe are a strategic fit with our business and complement our existing internal drug development efforts and product candidates, research programs and technologies. Future transactions, however, may entail numerous operational and financial risks including: • exposure to unknown liabilities; • disruption of our business and diversion of our management’s time and attention to the development of acquired products or technologies; • incurrence of substantial debt or dilutive issuances of securities to pay for acquisitions; • dilution to existing stockholders in the event of an acquisition by another entity; • higher than expected acquisition and integration costs; • increased amortization expenses; • difficulties in and costs of combining the operations and personnel of any businesses with our operations and personnel; • impairment of relationships with key suppliers or customers of any acquired businesses due to changes in management and ownership; and • inability to retain key employees. 23 Table of Contents Finally, we may devote resources to potential in-licensing opportunities or strategic transactions that are never completed or fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such efforts. If we are unable to establish sales and marketing capabilities or enter into agreements with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop, we may not be able to generate product revenue. We do not currently have a sales organization for the sales, marketing and distribution of pharmaceutical products. In order to commercialize any products, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial and other non-technical capabilities or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services. In North America, we currently expect to commercialize any BCR-ABL product candidates that may result from our collaboration with Novartis, and certain other potential product candidates for other indications that are of strategic interest to us, and plan to establish internal sales and marketing capabilities for those product candidates. We plan to seek third party partners for indications and in territories, such as outside North America, which may require more extensive sales and marketing capabilities. The establishment and development of our own sales force to market any products we may develop in North America will be expensive and time consuming and could delay any product launch, and we cannot be certain that we would be able to successfully develop this capacity. If we are unable to establish our sales and marketing capability or any other non-technical capabilities necessary to commercialize any products we may develop, we will need to contract with third parties to market and sell any products we may develop in North America. If we are unable to establish adequate sales, marketing and distribution capabilities, whether independently or with third parties, we may not be able to generate product revenue and may not become profitable. The commercial success of any product that we may develop depends upon market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. Even if any product we may develop obtains regulatory approval, our products, if any, may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, health care payors and the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any of our approved products will depend on a number of factors, including: • our ability to provide acceptable evidence of safety and efficacy; • relative convenience and ease of administration; • the prevalence and severity of any adverse side effects; • availability of alternative treatments; • pricing and cost effectiveness; • effectiveness of our or our collaborators’ sales and marketing strategies; and • our ability to obtain sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If any of our product candidates is approved, but does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, healthcare payors and patients, we may not generate sufficient revenue from these products and we may not become profitable. We are subject to uncertainty relating to health care reform measures and reimbursement policies which, if not favorable to our product candidates, could hinder or prevent our product candidates’ commercial success. The continuing efforts of the government, insurance companies, managed care organizations and other payors of health care costs to contain or reduce costs of health care may adversely affect one or more of the following: • our ability to set a price we believe is fair for our products; • our ability to generate revenues and achieve profitability; • the future revenues and profitability of our potential customers, suppliers and collaborators; and • the availability of capital. 24 Table of Contents In certain foreign markets, the pricing of prescription drugs is subject to government control and reimbursement may in some cases be unavailable. In the United States, given recent federal and state government initiatives directed at lowering the total cost of health care, Congress and state legislatures will likely continue to focus on health care reform, the cost of prescription drugs and the reform of the Medicare and Medicaid systems. For example, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 provided a new Medicare prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006 and mandated other reforms in the Medicare and Medicaid systems that have been subject to various amendments and modifications over the past several years. We are not yet able to assess the full impact of this legislation and it is possible that the new Medicare prescription drug benefit, which will be managed by private health insurers and other managed care organizations, will result in decreased reimbursement for prescription drugs, which may further exacerbate industry-wide pressure to reduce prescription drug prices. In addition, because we are approaching an election year, there may be significant healthcare reform and other measures that may adversely impact our business. This could harm our ability to market our products and generate revenues. It is also possible that other proposals having a similar effect will be adopted. Our ability to commercialize successfully any product candidates we advance into clinical trials will depend in part on the extent to which governmental authorities, private health insurers and other organizations establish appropriate coverage and reimbursement levels for the cost of our products and related treatments. Third party payors are increasingly challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Also, the trend toward managed health care in the United States, which could significantly influence the purchase of health care services and products, as well as legislative proposals to reform health care or reduce government insurance programs, may result in lower prices for our product candidates or exclusion of our product candidates from coverage and reimbursement programs. The cost containment measures that health care payors and providers are instituting and the effect of any health care reform could significantly reduce our revenues from the sale of any approved product. We may need to increase or decrease the size of our organization, and we may experience difficulties in managing those organizational changes. Since we were incorporated in 1998, we have increased the number of our full-time employees to 123 as of December 31, 2007. In the future, we may need to expand our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to manage and fund our operations, continue our research and development and collaborative activities, progress our product candidates through preclinical studies and clinical trials, and eventually commercialize any product candidates for which we are able to obtain regulatory approval. It is possible that our management and scientific personnel, systems and facilities currently in place may not be adequate to support this potential future growth. Our need to effectively manage our operations, potential future growth and various projects requires that we manage our internal research and development efforts effectively while carrying out our contractual obligations to collaborators and third parties, continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, reporting systems and procedures and to attract and retain sufficient numbers of talented employees. We may be unable to successfully implement these tasks on a larger scale and, accordingly, may not achieve our research, development and commercialization goals. Alternatively, we may need to decrease the number of our full-time employees in the future in response to adverse business events. Reducing our workforce may lead to additional unanticipated attrition. If our future staffing is inadequate because of additional unanticipated attrition or because we failed to retain the staffing level required to accomplish our business objectives we may be delayed or unable to continue the development or of our product candidates, which could impede our ability to generate revenues and achieve or maintain profitability. If we fail to attract and keep key management and scientific personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop or commercialize our product candidates. We will need to expand and effectively manage our managerial, operational, financial and other resources in order to successfully pursue our research, development and commercialization efforts for any future product candidates. Our success depends on our continued ability to attract, retain and motivate highly qualified management and chemists, biologists, and preclinical and clinical personnel. The loss of the services of any of our senior management, particularly Michael Grey, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Stephen Burley, our Senior 25 Table of Contents Vice President and Chief Scientific Officer and Senior Vice President, Research, could have an adverse effect on our business. We do not maintain “key man” insurance policies on the lives of these individuals or the lives of any of our other employees. We employ these individuals on an at-will basis and their employment can be terminated by us or them at any time, for any reason and with or without notice. We have scientific and clinical advisors who assist us in formulating our research, development and clinical strategies. These advisors are not our employees and may have commitments to, or consulting or advisory contracts with, other entities that may limit their availability to us. In addition, our advisors may have arrangements with other companies to assist those companies in developing products or technologies that may compete with ours. We may not be able to attract or retain qualified management and scientific personnel in the future due to the intense competition for qualified personnel among biotechnology, pharmaceutical and other businesses, particularly in the San Diego, California area. If we are not able to attract and retain the necessary personnel to accomplish our business objectives, we may experience constraints that will impede significantly the achievement of our research and development objectives, our ability to raise additional capital and our ability to implement our business strategy. In particular, if we lose any members of our senior management team, we may not be able to find suitable replacements and our business may be harmed as a result. Earthquake or fire damage to our facilities, systems failures or other adverse events affecting our facilities could delay our research and development efforts and adversely affect our business. Our headquarters and research and development facilities in San Diego are located in a seismic zone, and there is the possibility of an earthquake, which could be disruptive to our operations and result in delays in our research and development efforts. In addition, while our facilities were not adversely impacted by the wildfires in recent years, there is the possibility of future fires in the area. Our internal computer systems are also vulnerable to damage from computer viruses, unauthorized access, natural disasters, terrorism, and telecommunications and electrical failures. In the event of an earthquake or fire or any systems failure, if our facilities, the equipment in our facilities or our computer or other systems are significantly damaged, destroyed or disrupted for any reason, we may not be able to rebuild or relocate our facilities, replace any damaged equipment or repair any systems failures in a timely manner and our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We do not have insurance for damages resulting from earthquakes. While we do have fire insurance for our property and equipment located in San Diego, any damage sustained in a fire could cause a delay in our research and development efforts and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Relating to our Finances and Capital Requirements We will need substantial additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our research and development programs or commercialization efforts. Historically, we have funded our operations through a combination of proceeds from offerings of our equity securities, collaborations, commercial agreements, grant revenue, and debt financing. As part of our business strategy, we expect to continue to establish new collaborations and commercial agreements. We believe that our existing cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, together with interest thereon and cash from existing and new collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, will be sufficient to meet projected operating requirements into the second half of 2009. Because we do not anticipate that we will generate significant continuing revenues for several years, if at all, we will need to raise substantial additional capital to finance our operations in the future. Our additional funding requirements will depend on, and could increase significantly as a result of, many factors, including the: • terms and timing of, and material developments under, any new or existing collaborative, licensing and other arrangements, including potentially partnering our internal discovery and development programs, such as MET, or potentially retaining such programs through later stages of preclinical and clinical development; • rate of progress and cost of our preclinical studies and clinical trials and other research and development activities; • scope, prioritization and number of clinical development and research programs we pursue; • costs and timing of preparing regulatory submissions and obtaining regulatory approval; 26 Table of Contents • costs of establishing or contracting for sales and marketing capabilities; • costs of manufacturing; • extent to which we acquire or in-license new products, technologies or businesses; • effect of competing technological and market developments; and • costs of filing, prosecuting, defending and enforcing any patent claims and other intellectual property rights. We expect to continue to finance our future cash needs through the sale of equity securities, strategic collaboration agreements and debt financing. However, we may not be successful in obtaining additional collaboration agreements or commercial agreements, or in receiving milestone or royalty payments under existing agreements. In addition, we cannot be sure that additional financing will be available when needed or that, if available, financing will be obtained on terms favorable to us or our stockholders. Having insufficient funds may require us to delay, scale back or eliminate some or all of our research or development programs or to relinquish greater or all rights to product candidates at an earlier stage of development or on less favorable terms than we would otherwise choose. Failure to obtain adequate financing may also adversely affect our ability to operate as a going concern. If adequate funds are not available, we may be required to delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate one or more of our research and development programs or our commercialization efforts. We expect our net operating losses to continue for at least several years, and we are unable to predict the extent of future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We have incurred substantial net operating losses since our inception. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had a net loss attributable to common stockholders of $16.0 million and $28.1 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $179.7 million. We expect our annual net operating losses to continue over the next several years as we conduct our research and development activities, and incur preclinical and clinical development costs. Because of the numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our research and development efforts and other factors, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if ever. We will need to commence clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval and successfully commercialize a product candidate or product candidates before we can generate revenues which would have the potential to lead to profitability. We currently lack a significant continuing revenue source and may not become profitable. Our ability to become profitable depends upon our ability to generate significant continuing revenues. To obtain significant continuing revenues, we must succeed, either alone or with others, in developing, obtaining regulatory approval for, and manufacturing and marketing product candidates with significant market potential. However, we cannot guarantee when, if ever, products resulting from our MET, BCR-ABL or other oncology programs will generate product sales, or that any such sales will be sufficient to allow us to become profitable. We had revenues from collaborations, commercial agreements and grants totaling $34.7 million and $27.8 million for years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Though we anticipate that our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants will continue to be our primary sources of revenues for the next several years, these revenues alone will not be sufficient to lead to profitability. Our ability to generate continuing revenues depends on a number of factors, including: • obtaining new collaborations and commercial agreements; • performing under current and future collaborations, commercial agreements and grants, including achieving milestones; • successful completion of clinical trials for any product candidate we advance into clinical trials; • achievement of regulatory approval for any product candidate we advance into clinical trials; and • successful selling, manufacturing, distribution and marketing of our future products, if any. 27 Table of Contents If we are unable to generate significant continuing revenues, we will not become profitable, and we may be unable to continue our operations. Raising additional funds by issuing securities or through licensing arrangements may cause dilution to existing stockholders, restrict our operations or require us to relinquish proprietary rights. We may raise additional funds through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or licensing arrangements. To the extent that we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our existing stockholders’ ownership will be diluted. Any debt financing we enter into may involve covenants that restrict our operations. These restrictive covenants may include limitations on additional borrowing, specific restrictions on the use of our assets as well as prohibitions on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, redeem our stock or make investments. In addition, if we raise additional funds through licensing arrangements, as we did in our recent collaboration with Novartis, it may be necessary to relinquish potentially valuable rights to our potential products or proprietary technologies, or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. Our quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. We expect our operating results to be subject to quarterly fluctuations. The revenues we generate, if any, and our operating results will be affected by numerous factors, including: • our addition or termination of research programs or funding support; • variations in the level of expenses related to our product candidates or research programs; • our execution of collaborative, licensing or other arrangements, and the timing of payments we may make or receive under these arrangements; • any intellectual property infringement lawsuit in which we may become involved; and • changes in accounting principles. Quarterly fluctuations in our operating results may, in turn, cause the price of our stock to fluctuate substantially. We believe that quarterly comparisons of our financial results are not necessarily meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. We may incur substantial liabilities from any product liability claims if our insurance coverage for those claims is inadequate. We face an inherent risk of product liability exposure related to the testing of our product candidates in human clinical trials, and will face an even greater risk if we sell our product candidates commercially. An individual may bring a liability claim against us if one of our product candidates causes, or merely appears to have caused, an injury. If we cannot successfully defend ourselves against the product liability claim, we will incur substantial liabilities. Regardless of merit or eventual outcome, liability claims may result in any one or a combination of the following: • decreased demand for our product candidates; • injury to our reputation; • withdrawal of clinical trial participants; • costs of related litigation; • substantial monetary awards to patients or other claimants; • loss of revenues; and • the inability to commercialize our product candidates. We have product liability insurance that covers our Phase 1 clinical trials of SGX 523. We intend to expand our insurance coverage to include the sale of commercial products if marketing approval is obtained for any of our product candidates. However, insurance coverage is increasingly expensive. We may not be able to maintain 28 Table of Contents insurance coverage at a reasonable cost, and we may not be able to obtain insurance coverage that will be adequate to satisfy any liability that may arise. We use biological and hazardous materials, and any claims relating to improper handling, storage or disposal of these materials could be time consuming or costly. We use hazardous materials, including chemicals, biological agents and radioactive isotopes and compounds, which could be dangerous to human health and safety or the environment. Our operations also produce hazardous waste products. Federal, state and local laws and regulations govern the use, generation, manufacture, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and wastes. Compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations may be expensive, and current or future environmental laws and regulations may impair our drug development efforts. In addition, we cannot entirely eliminate the risk of accidental injury or contamination from these materials or wastes. If one of our employees was accidentally injured from the use, storage, handling or disposal of these materials or wastes, the medical costs related to his or her treatment would be covered by our workers’ compensation insurance policy. However, we do not carry specific biological or hazardous waste insurance coverage and our property and casualty and general liability insurance policies specifically exclude coverage for damages and fines arising from biological or hazardous waste exposure or contamination. Accordingly, in the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines in an amount exceeding our resources, and our clinical trials or regulatory approvals could be suspended. Negative conditions in the global credit markets may impair the liquidity of a portion of our investment portfolio. Our investment securities consist of government agency securities, corporate debt securities and auction rate securities (ARS). As of December 31, 2007, our short-term investments included $1.5 million of an AAA/Aaa rated ARS which experienced failed auctions due to market uncertainties at the time its interest rate was to reset. The recent negative conditions in the global credit markets have prevented some investors from liquidating their holdings, including their holdings of auction rate securities. As a result, our ARS has experienced a decline in value. In the event we need to access these funds, we will not be able to do so without a loss of principal, until a future auction on this investment is successful, the security is redeemed by the issuer or the security matures. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of our ARS was reduced by $0.5 million, from $1.5 million to $1.0 million at December 31, 2007, reflecting the change in fair market value. Although the ARS continues to pay interest according to its stated terms, based on valuation models and an analysis of other-than-temporary impairment factors, a realized loss of approximately $0.5 million was recognized in the fourth quarter of 2007, reflecting an other-than-temporary decline in value. If the credit ratings of the ARS issuer deteriorate or if uncertainties in these markets continue and any decline in market value is determined to be other-than-temporary, we would be required to adjust the fair value of the investment through an additional impairment charge, which could negatively affect the Company’s financial condition. There is no guarantee that we will be able to liquidate our ARS or that we will not incur further realized losses. Risks Relating to our Intellectual Property Our success depends upon our ability to protect our intellectual property and our proprietary technologies. Our commercial success depends on obtaining and maintaining patent protection and trade secret protection for our product candidates, proprietary technologies and their uses, as well as successfully defending these patents against third party challenges. There can be no assurance that our patent applications will result in patents being issued or that issued patents will afford protection against competitors with similar technology, nor can there be any assurance that the patents issued will not be infringed, designed around, or invalidated by third parties. Even issued patents may later be found unenforceable, or be modified or revoked in proceedings instituted by third parties before various patent offices or in courts. 29 Table of Contents The patent positions of pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies can be highly uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions for which important legal principles remain unresolved. Changes in either the patent laws or in the interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property. Accordingly, we cannot predict the breadth of claims that may be allowed or enforced in our patents or in third party patents. The degree of future protection for our proprietary rights is uncertain. Only limited protection may be available and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example: • we might not have been the first to file patent applications for these inventions; • we might not have been the first to make the inventions covered by each of our pending patent applications and issued patents; • others may independently develop similar or alternative technologies or duplicate any of our technologies; • the patents of others may have an adverse effect on our business; • it is possible that none of our pending patent applications will result in issued patents; • our issued patents may not encompass commercially viable products, may not provide us with any competitive advantages, or may be challenged by third parties; • our issued patents may not be valid or enforceable; or • we may not develop additional proprietary technologies that are patentable. Patent applications in the U.S. are maintained in confidence for up to 18 months after their filing. Consequently, we cannot be certain that we were the first to invent, or the first to file, patent applications on our compounds or drug candidates. We may not have identified all U.S. and foreign patents or published applications that may affect our business by blocking our ability to commercialize any drugs for which we are able to successfully develop and obtain regulatory approval. Proprietary trade secrets and unpatented know-how are also very important to our business. Although we have taken steps to protect our trade secrets and unpatented know-how, including entering into confidentiality agreements with third parties, and confidential information and inventions agreements with employees, consultants and advisors, third parties may still obtain this information or we may be unable to protect our rights. Enforcing a claim that a third party illegally obtained and is using our trade secrets or unpatented know-how is expensive and time consuming, and the outcome is unpredictable. In addition, courts outside the United States may be less willing to protect trade secret information. Moreover, our competitors may independently develop equivalent knowledge, methods and know-how, and we would not be able to prevent their use. If we are sued for infringing intellectual property rights of third parties, it will be costly and time consuming, and an unfavorable outcome in that litigation would have a material adverse effect on our business. Our commercial success also depends upon our ability and the ability of our collaborators to develop, manufacture, market and sell our product candidates and use our proprietary technologies without infringing the proprietary rights of third parties. Numerous U.S. and foreign issued patents and pending patent applications, which are owned by third parties, exist in the fields in which we and our collaborators are developing products. Because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending applications which may later result in issued patents that our product candidates or proprietary technologies may infringe. We may be exposed to, or threatened with, future litigation by third parties having patent, trademark or other intellectual property rights alleging that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. If one of these patents was found to cover our product candidates, research methods, proprietary technologies or their uses, or one of these trademarks was found to be infringed, we or our collaborators could be required to pay damages and could be unable to commercialize our product candidates or use our proprietary technologies unless we or they obtain a license to the patent or trademark, as applicable. A license may not be available to us or our collaborators on acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, during litigation, the patent or trademark holder could obtain a preliminary injunction or other 30 Table of Contents equitable right which could prohibit us from making, using or selling our products, technologies or methods. In addition, we or our collaborators could be required to designate a different trademark name for our products, which could result in a delay in selling those products. There is a substantial amount of litigation involving patent and other intellectual property rights in the biotechnology and biopharmaceutical industries generally. If a third party claims that we or our collaborators infringe its intellectual property rights, we may face a number of issues, including, but not limited to: • infringement and other intellectual property claims which, with or without merit, may be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and may divert our management’s attention from our core business; • substantial damages for infringement, including treble damages and attorneys’ fees, which we may have to pay if a court decides that the product or proprietary technology at issue infringes on or violates the third party’s rights; • a court prohibiting us from selling or licensing the product or using the proprietary technology unless the third party licenses its technology to us, which it is not required to do; • if a license is available from the third party, we may have to pay substantial royalties, fees and/or grant cross licenses to our technology; and • redesigning our products or processes so they do not infringe which may not be possible or may require substantial funds and time. There can be no assurance that third party patents containing claims covering our product candidates, technology or methods do not exist, have not been filed, or could not be filed or issued. Because of the number of patents issued and patent applications filed in our areas or fields of interest, particularly in the area of protein kinase inhibitors, we believe there is a significant risk that third parties may allege they have patent rights encompassing our product candidates, technology or methods. In addition, we have not conducted an extensive search of third party trademarks, so no assurance can be given that such third party trademarks do not exist, have not been filed, could not be filed or issued, or could not exist under common trademark law. If there is uncertainty with respect to our intellectual property rights related to our product candidates, technologies or methods, we may have difficulty entering into collaboration or licensing arrangements with third parties with respect to such product candidates, technologies or methods. Other product candidates that we may develop, either internally or in collaboration with others, could be subject to similar risks and uncertainties. Risks Relating to the Securities Markets and Ownership of our Common Stock Market volatility may affect our stock price. Until our initial public offering in February 2006, there was no market for our common stock, and despite our initial public offering, an active public market for these shares may not develop or be sustained. We have had relatively low volume of trading in our stock since our initial public offering and we do not know if the trading volume of our common stock will increase in the future. In addition, the market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to a number of factors, most of which we cannot control, including: • changes in the preclinical or clinical development status of or clinical trial results for our product candidates; • announcements of new products or technologies, commercial relationships or collaboration arrangements or other events by us or our competitors, or investor expectations with respect to such arrangements or events; • events affecting our collaborations, commercial agreements and grants; • variations in our quarterly operating results; • changes in securities analysts’ estimates of our financial performance; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; 31 Table of Contents • fluctuations in stock market prices and trading volumes of similar companies; • sales of large blocks of our common stock, including sales by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; • additions or departures of key personnel; • discussion of us or our stock price by the financial and scientific press and in online investor communities; and • changes in accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. In addition, class action litigation has often been instituted against companies whose securities have experienced periods of volatility in market price, such as the decline in our stock price following the announcement in August 2006 of the termination of our Phase II/III clinical trial for Troxatyl. Any such litigation brought against us could result in substantial costs and a diversion of management’s attention and resources, which could hurt our business, operating results and financial condition. Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of us, which may be beneficial to our stockholders, more difficult and may prevent attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws may delay or prevent an acquisition of us or a change in our management. These provisions include a classified board of directors, a prohibition on actions by written consent of our stockholders, and the ability of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to certain exceptions, prohibits stockholders owning in excess of 15% of our outstanding voting stock from merging or combining with us. Although we believe these provisions collectively provide for an opportunity to receive higher bids by requiring potential acquirors to negotiate with our board of directors, they would apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some stockholders. In addition, these provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. We may incur increased costs as a result of changes in laws and regulations relating to corporate governance matters. Changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Nasdaq Stock Market, have resulted in and will continue to result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. These laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to these laws and regulations and cannot predict or estimate the amount or timing of additional costs we may incur to respond to their requirements. If our executive officers, directors and largest stockholders choose to act together, they may be able to control our operations and act in a manner that advances their best interests and not necessarily those of other stockholders. Our executive officers, directors and holders of 5% or more of our outstanding common stock beneficially own approximately 62% of our common stock. As a result, these stockholders, acting together, are able to control all matters requiring approval by our stockholders, including the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business combination transactions. The interests of this group of stockholders may not always coincide with our interests or the interests of other stockholders, and they may act in a manner that advances their best interests 32 Table of Contents and not necessarily those of other stockholders. These stockholders also may not act together and disputes may arise among these stockholders with respect to matters that require stockholder approval. Any disagreements among our significant stockholders, including among significant stockholders that are affiliated with members of our Board of Directors, may also make it more difficult for us to obtain stockholder approval of certain matters and may lead to distraction of management or have other adverse impact on our operations. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 