ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Our net revenues, operating results and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business. Our business is highly seasonal, with a high proportion of our net revenues, net income and operating cash flows generated during the fourth quarter. For example, we generated approximately 50% of our net revenues for 2008 in the fourth quarter of 2008, and the net income that we generated during the fourth quarter of 2008 was necessary for us to achieve profitability on an annual basis for 2008. In addition, we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the fourth quarter holiday season including expenses related to the hiring and training of temporary workers to meet our seasonal needs, additional inventory and equipment purchases and increased advertising. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to consumer demand for our products during the fourth quarter, our financial results, reputation and brand will suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. We also base our operating expense budgets on expected net revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office, lab facility, and various equipment leases and various personnel costs, are largely fixed and are based on our expectations of our peak levels of operations. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in net revenues may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. In addition, our operations and financial performance depend on general economic conditions. The U.S. economy recently experienced, and could continue to experience, an economic downturn due to the crisis in credit markets, slower economic activity, concerns about inflation, increased energy costs, decreased consumer confidence, high consumer debt levels and unemployment rates and other adverse business conditions. Such fluctuations in the U.S. economy could cause, among others, deterioration and continued decline in consumer spending and increase in the cost of labor and materials. As a result, given the combination of the current economic conditions, very low consumer sentiment and limited discretionary funds, the economic slowdown could exacerbate the seasonal decline in sales that we typically see in the first three quarters of the calendar year. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the exact impact of the seasonal factors on our business or the extent to which our business is susceptible to cyclical fluctuations in the U.S. economy. In addition, our historically rapid growth may have overshadowed whatever seasonal or cyclical factors might have influenced our business to date. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our business may become more pronounced over time and may harm our future operating results. Economic trends could adversely affect our financial performance. We are subject to macro-economic fluctuations in the U.S. economy. Recent macro-economic issues involving the broader financial markets, including the housing and credit system and the liquidity issues in the auction rate securities that we have invested in have negatively impacted the economy and our financial performance. Weak economic conditions and declines in consumer spending and consumption have harmed and may further harm our operating results. Purchases of our products are often discretionary. If the economic climate does not improve or continues to deteriorate, customers or potential customers could further delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which could impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reduced sales. In addition, the current economic conditions may lead to price increases by our suppliers or increase our operating expenses due to, among others, higher costs of labor, energy, equipment and facilities. Economic downturns may also lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Due to reduced consumer spending and increased competitive pressures in the current economic environment, we may not be able to pass these increased costs to our customers. The resulting increased expenses and/or reduced income would negatively impact our operating results. If the negative macro-economic conditions persist, or if the economy enters a prolonged period of decelerating growth, our results of operations may be further harmed. 19 If we are unable to meet our production requirements, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed. We believe that we must continue to grow our current production capability to meet our projected net revenue targets. We anticipate that total capital expenditures will range between 11% to 12% of our expected calendar year 2009 net revenues. A portion of those capital expenditures will be used to add manufacturing capacity during 2009. During 2007, we opened a new manufacturing and production plant in Charlotte, North Carolina, and in July 2008, we announced that we will be closing our Hayward, California production facility in early 2009 and expect to begin operations in a new manufacturing and production facility in Phoenix, Arizona by the second quarter of 2009. Operational difficulties, such as a significant interruption in the operation or opening of any of our plants could delay production or shipment of our products. Our inability to meet our production requirements could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage to our reputation and brand, which would result in reduced net revenues. Moreover, if the costs of meeting production requirements, including capital expenditures, were to exceed our expectations, our results of operations would be harmed. There could be unforeseen construction, scheduling, engineering, cost or other problems with the build-out of the facility of our new Phoenix manufacturing and production plant, which could cause the operation commencement date to differ significantly from initial expectations. Any significant delay in the commencement of operations at the new plant could cause a delay in our production requirements and harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. The new plant could also experience other operational disruptions, including telecommunications system problems, disruptions in transitioning fulfillment orders and problems or increased expenses associated with operating the new plant, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we face significant production risks at peak holiday seasons, including the risks of obtaining sufficient qualified seasonal production personnel. A majority of our workforce during the fourth quarter of 2008 was seasonal, temporary personnel. We have had difficulties in the past finding a sufficient number of qualified seasonal employees, and our failure to obtain qualified seasonal production personnel at any of our production plants could harm our operations. Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are difficult for us to predict and control. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: • general economic conditions, including recession and economic slowdown in the U.S. and worldwide and higher inflation, as well as those economic conditions specific to the Internet and ecommerce industries; • demand for our products and services, including seasonal demand; • our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; • our ability to attract visitors to our website and convert those visitors into customers; • our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases; • our ability to sustain our profit margins, and our ability to diversify our product offerings and sell to consumers photo-based products such as photo books, calendars and cards; 20 • the costs of customer acquisition; • our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; • the costs to produce our prints and photo-based products and merchandise and to provide our services; • the costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or website; • a significant increase in returns and credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products; • declines or disruptions to the travel industry; • variations in weather, particularly heavy rain and snow which tend to depress travel and picture taking; • the timing of holidays; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense; • consumer preferences for digital photography services; • improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing of digital pictures and products; and • macroeconomic and geopolitical events such as recession, inflation, war, threat of war or terrorist actions. Based on the factors cited above, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may decline. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. We have periodically experienced operating losses since our inception in 1999. In particular, we make investments in our business that generally result in operating losses in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. This typically has enabled us to generate the majority of our net revenue during the fourth quarter and to achieve profitability for the full fiscal year. If we are unable to produce our products and provide our services at commercially reasonable costs, if customer demand and revenues decline or if our expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. 21 We have a limited public company operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects for the future. We became a public company in September 2006, and we have only a limited public operating history on which investors can base an evaluation of our business and future prospects. We face many risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: • maintain and increase the size of our customer base; • maintain and enhance our brand; • maintain and grow our website and customer operations; • enhance and expand our products and services; • successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; • continue to develop and upgrade our technology and information processing systems; • continue to enhance our service to meet the needs of a changing market; • provide superior customer service; • respond to competitive developments; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these requirements, which could cause our business to suffer. Accomplishing one or more of these requirements might be very expensive, which could harm our financial results. 22 If we are not able to reliably meet our data storage and management requirements, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed. As a part of our current business model, we offer our customers free unlimited online storage and sharing of photographs and, as a result, must store and manage multiple petabytes of data. This policy results in immense system requirements and substantial ongoing technological challenges, both of which are expected to continue to increase over time. If we are not able to reliably meet these data storage and management requirements, we could have disruptions in services which could impair customer satisfaction and our reputation and lead to reduced net revenues and increased expenses. Moreover, if the cost of meeting these data storage and management requirements exceeds our expectations, our results of operations would be harmed. Our data storage system could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, our primary storage facilities are located near a major fault line, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm our data storage system. If we experience disruption to our redundant systems located at our data storage center, such disruption could result in the deletion or corruption of customer stored images. For example, in 2007, we experienced a loss of a small number of customer images due to an isolated server failure. Interruptions to our website, information technology systems, print production processes or customer service operations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website, information technology systems, printing production processes and customer service operations are critical to our reputation, and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer satisfaction. We currently conduct periodic site maintenance several times a quarter that sometimes requires us to take the website down. The scheduled down times are planned at non-peak hours, typically at midnight. Any interruptions that result in the unavailability of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance or customer service could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. For example, in the second quarter of 2008, we experienced website performance issues in conjunction with a large release of additional website functionality which impacted our key metrics and revenue. This risk is heightened in the fourth quarter, as we experience significantly increased traffic to our website during the holiday season. Any interruption that occurs during such time would have a disproportionately negative impact than if it occurred during a different quarter. We depend in part on third parties to implement and maintain certain aspects of our communications and printing systems. Therefore many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions in the production process may be outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our business interruption insurance policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions that we may experience, and any proceeds we may receive from these policies in the event of a business interruption may not fully compensate us for the revenues we may lose. We may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. We have grown from 431 employees as of December 31, 2007 to 514 employees as of December 31, 2008. We have website operations, offices and customer support centers in Redwood City, California and Mesa, Arizona, and production facilities in Charlotte, North Carolina, Hayward, California (through early 2009), and a new facility in Phoenix, Arizona that is expected to be operational by the second quarter of 2009. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies and reporting systems. 23 If we are unable to manage future expansion, we may not be able to implement improvements to our controls, policies and systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be compromised, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. We recently implemented a new enterprise resource planning system ("ERP") as part of our strategy to provide scale in our operations. The ERP system is complex and could have flaws that could negatively impact our business and operations. Moreover, our internal processes may not be entirely compatible with the ERP system, which may require additional resources to ensure compatibility. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly with respect to 4×6 print pricing and shipping, may harm our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price, especially in times of economic slowdown and consumer conservatism. Many external factors, including our production and personnel costs, consumer sentiment and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations, we could lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our net revenues and net income. From time to time, we have made changes to our pricing structure for 4×6 prints in order to remain competitive. In December 2007, one of our competitors lowered its list prices on 4×6 prints from $0.12 to $0.09. During the third quarter of 2008, we lowered the list price of 4x6 prints from $0.19 to $0.15. We expect to continue to test other pricing, promotion and bundled service offerings, however, a significant drop in our 4×6 prices, without a corresponding increase in volume, or decreases in volume as a result of competitive pressures would negatively impact our net revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability. We generate a significant portion of our net revenues from the fees we collect from shipping our products. For example, these fees represented approximately 17%, 19% and 20% of our net revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006 respectively. We offer discounted or free shipping, with a minimum purchase requirement, during promotional periods to attract and retain customers. If free shipping offers extend beyond a limited number of occasions, are not based upon a minimum purchase requirement or become commonplace, our net revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, we occasionally offer free or discounted products and services to attract and retain customers. In the future, if we increase these offers to respond to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed. 24 We face intense competition from a range of competitors and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The digital photography products and services industries are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their offerings and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: • Online digital photography services companies such as Kodak EasyShare Gallery (formerly known as Ofoto), Snapfish, which is a service of Hewlett-Packard, American Greetings’ Photoworks and Webshots brands, and others; • “Big Box” retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco and others that are seeking to offer low cost digital photography products and services, such as in-store fulfillment and self-service kiosks for printing; these competitors may, among other strategies, offer their customers heavily discounted in-store products and services that compete directly with our offerings; • Drug stores such as Walgreens, CVS and others that offer in-store pick-up from Internet orders; • Regional photography companies such as Ritz Camera that have established brands and customer bases in existing photography markets; • Internet portals and search engines such as Yahoo!, AOL, Google that offer broad-reaching digital photography and related products and services to their large user bases; • Home printing service providers such as Hewlett-Packard, Epson, Canon, and Kodak that are seeking to expand their printer and ink businesses by gaining market share in the emerging digital photography marketplace; and • Photo-related software companies such as Apple, Microsoft and Corel; • Social media companies that host images such as MySpace, Facebook and Hi5; and • Specialized companies in the photo book and stationery business such as Hallmark, American Greetings, Tiny Prints, Picaboo and Blurb. Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, greater brand and name recognition and greater financial, research and development and distribution resources, and operate in more geographic areas than we do. Well-funded competitors may be better able to withstand economic downturns and associated periods of reduced customer spending and increased pricing pressures. The numerous choices for digital photography services can cause confusion for consumers, and may cause them to select a competitor with greater name recognition. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development or to investments or partnerships with traditional and online competitors. Competitors that are well-funded, particularly new entrants may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. Competitors and new entrants in the digital photography products and services industries may develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render obsolete or less competitive many of the products, services and content that we offer. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. 25 If we are unable to adequately control the costs associated with operating our business, our results of operations will suffer. The primary costs in operating our business are related to producing and shipping products, acquiring customers, compensating our personnel, acquiring equipment and technology and leasing facilities. If we are unable to keep these costs aligned with the level of revenues that we generate, our results of operations would be harmed. Controlling our business costs is challenging because many of the factors that impact these costs are beyond our control. For example, the costs to produce prints, such as the costs of photographic print paper, could increase due to a shortage of silver or an increase in worldwide energy prices. In addition, we may become subject to increased costs by the third-party shippers that deliver our products to our customers, and we may be unable to pass along any increases in shipping costs to our customers. The costs of online advertising and keyword search could also increase significantly due to increased competition, which would increase our customer acquisition costs. We invest in securities that are subject to market risk and the recent issues in the financial markets could adversely affect the value of our assets. At December 31, 2008, $52.3 million par value of our marketable securities portfolio was invested in AAA rated investments in auction-rate debt securities ("ARS"). ARS investments are long-term variable rate bonds tied to short-term interest rates. After the initial issuance of the securities, the interest rate on the securities is reset periodically, at intervals established at the time of issuance (primarily every twenty eight days), based on market demand for a reset period. Auction rate securities are bought and sold in the marketplace through a competitive bidding process often referred to as a “Dutch auction.” If there is insufficient interest in the securities at the time of an auction, the auction may not be completed and the rates may be reset to predetermined “penalty” or “maximum” rates. From the inception of these investments in ARS in January 2008 through February 2009, due to the recent uncertainties in the credit markets, all scheduled auctions have failed. Consequently, the investments are not currently liquid and we will not be able to access these funds until a future auction of these investments is successful, the securities are called by the issuer or a buyer is found outside of the auction process. As a result, we have classified the entire balance of ARS as non-current investments on our consolidated balance sheet. At the time of the initial investment and through the date of this report, all of these auction rate securities remain AAA rated. The assets underlying each security are student loans and 90% of the principal amounts are guaranteed by the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”). Typically, the fair value of ARS investments approximates par value due to the frequent resets through the auction process. While we continue to earn interest on our ARS investments at the contractual rate, these investments are not currently trading and therefore do not have a readily determinable market value. Accordingly, the estimated fair value of the ARS investments no longer approximates par value. At December 31, 2008, we utilized a discounted cash flow approach to determine the Level 3 valuation for the ARS investments. This analysis indicated a fair value of $43.3 million. The assumptions used in preparing the discounted cash flow model include estimates for interest rates, timing and amount of cash flows, credit and liquidity premiums, and expected holding periods of the ARS. These assumptions are volatile and subject to change as the underlying sources of these assumptions and market conditions change. They represent our estimates given available data as of December 31, 2008. Based on this assessment of fair value, as of December 31, 2008 we determined there was a decline in fair value of our ARS investments of $9.0 million. 26 In November 2008, we accepted an offer (the “Rights”) from UBS AG (“UBS”), one of our investment advisors, entitling us to sell at par value auction-rate securities originally purchased from UBS (approximately $52.3 million, par value) at anytime during a two-year period from June 30, 2010 through July 2, 2012. In accepting the Rights, we also granted UBS the authority to sell or auction the ARS at par at any time up until the expiration date of the offer and released UBS from any claims relating to the marketing and sale of ARS. Although we expect to sell our ARS under the Rights, if the Rights are not exercised before July 2, 2012, it will expire and UBS will have no further rights or obligation to buy our ARS. The Rights represent a contractual agreement between us and UBS that will rank senior to UBS' ordinary shares. Throughout the period from acceptance of the offer until the Rights are redeemed or UBS sells the securities, ARS will continue to accrue interest as determined by the auction process or the terms outlined in the prospectus of the ARS if the auction process fails. UBS’s obligations under the Right are not secured by its assets and do not require UBS to obtain any financing to support its performance obligations under the Rights. UBS has disclaimed any assurance that it will have sufficient financial resources to satisfy its obligations under the Rights. The Rights represents a firm agreement in accordance with FASB Statement No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities”, (SFAS 133), which defines a firm agreement with an unrelated party, binding on both parties and usually legally enforceable, with the following characteristics: a) the agreement specifies all significant terms, including the quantity to be exchanged, the fixed price, and the timing of the transaction, and b) the agreement includes a disincentive for nonperformance that is sufficiently large to make performance probable. The enforceability of the Rights resulted in the recognition of a separate freestanding asset and was accounted for separately from the ARS investment. As of December 31, 2008, we recorded $9.0 million as the fair value of the Rights, classified as long-term investment on the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2008, with a corresponding credit to interest and other income, net, in the consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2008. The Rights does not meet the definition of a derivative instrument under SFAS 133. Therefore, we elected to measure the Rights at fair value under SFAS 159, which permits an entity to elect the fair value option for recognized financial assets, in order to match the changes in the fair value of the ARS. We valued the Rights as the difference between the fair value and the original Par value of the ARS, adjusted for bearer risk, if any, associated with UBS’s financial ability to repurchase the ARS beginning June 30, 2010. Prior to accepting the UBS offer, we recorded our ARS as available-for-sale investments, and therefore recorded resulting unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, in accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity. In connection with the acceptance of the UBS offer in November 2008, resulting in a right to require UBS to purchase the ARS at par value beginning on June 30, 2010, we have reclassified our ARS subject to the Rights and held by UBS from available-for-sale to trading in accordance with FASB Statement No. 115, “Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities” (SFAS 115). The transfer to trading securities reflects our intent to exercise the Rights during the period June 30, 2010 to July 3, 2012. Prior to our agreement with UBS, our intent was to hold the ARS until the earlier of anticipated recovery in market value or maturity. At December 31, 2008, we recorded an other than temporary impairment loss on our auction rate securities of $9.0 million in interest and other income, net, which had previously been recognized as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax. Any future gains or losses resulting from changes in the fair value of the ARS will be recognized in earnings. The loss of key personnel and an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel. The loss of these key employees, each of whom is “at will” and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train and motivate qualified personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational and managerial requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to implement our business plan. 27 In 2006, the Board authorized three automatic annual increases to our stock option pool. Each annual increase is limited to a) 4.62% of common stock issued and outstanding on the December 31 immediately prior to the date of increase or b) a lesser number as determined by the Board. After the last annual increase in January 2010, the provision will expire. In order to attract key personnel, in 2007 and in 2008, the Board authorized 515,000 additional inducement stock option grants and restricted stock awards to supplement our option pool. Inducement stock options and awards are granted to certain employees upon hire, which do not require shareholder approval. In the future, attracting key personnel may require a level of option grants in excess of the amount available in our option pool. Accordingly the Board may authorize additional inducement grants which could further dilute existing shareholders. If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, or if we were to become subject to e-mail blacklisting, traffic to our website would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to bring visitors to our website and promote our products, including paying fees to third parties who drive new customers to our website, purchasing search results from online search engines, e-mail and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other website and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website. We also use e-mail and direct mail to offer free products and services to attract customers, and we offer substantial pricing discounts to encourage repeat purchases. Our methods of attracting customers, including acquiring customer lists from third parties, can involve substantial costs, regardless of whether we acquire new customers. Even if we are successful in acquiring and retaining customers, the cost involved in these efforts impacts our results of operations. Customer lists are typically recorded as intangible assets and may be subject to impairment charges if the fair value of that list exceeds its carrying value. These potential impairment charges could harm our results from operations. If we are unable to enhance or maintain the methods we use to reach consumers, if the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or if we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed, traffic to our website would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” In addition, we have noted unauthorized “spammers” utilize our domain name to solicit spam. Some of these entities maintain blacklists of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. From time to time we are blacklisted, sometimes without our knowledge, which could impair our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our business. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Shutterfly brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. A component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Shutterfly brand. Due to the competitive nature of the digital photography products and services markets, if we are unable to successfully promote the Shutterfly brand, we may fail to substantially increase our net revenues. Customer awareness of and the perceived value of our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience also depends, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers and third-party Internet and communication infrastructure providers. For example, some of our products, such as select photo-based merchandise, are produced and shipped to customers by our third-party vendors, and we rely on these vendors to properly inspect and ship these products. In addition, we rely on third-party shippers, including the U.S. Postal Service and United Parcel Service, to deliver our products to customers. Strikes or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could impair our ability to deliver merchandise on a timely basis. Our products are also subject to damage during delivery and handling by our third-party shippers. Our failure to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our efforts to develop Shutterfly as a trusted brand. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. 28 Purchasers of digital photography products and services may not choose to shop online, which would harm our net revenues and results of operations. The online market for digital photography products and services is less developed than the online market for other consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically used traditional retail photography services or who have produced photographs and other products using self-service alternatives, such as printing at home. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or reduce the prices of our products and services in order to attract additional online consumers to our website and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include: • the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; • delivery time associated with Internet orders; • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and • inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. If purchasers of digital photography products and services do not choose to shop online, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed. If affordable broadband access does not become widely available to consumers, our revenue growth will likely suffer. Because our business currently involves consumers uploading and downloading large data files, we are highly dependent upon the availability of affordable broadband access to consumers. Many areas of the country still do not have broadband access, and the cost of broadband access may be too expensive for many potential customers. To the extent that broadband access is not available or not adopted by consumers due to cost, our revenue growth would likely suffer. If either facility where our computer and communications hardware is located fails or if our production facilities fail, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to provide high-quality customer service depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our website is located at two third-party hosting facilities in Santa Clara, California, and our production facilities are located in Charlotte, North Carolina, Hayward, California (through early 2009), and a new facility in Phoenix, Arizona that is expected to be operational in the second quarter of 2009. Our systems and operations could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, insufficient power availability, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, Santa Clara is located near a major fault line increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. We maintain business interruption insurance, however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, particularly from interruption due to an earthquake which is not covered under our current policy. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations. In addition, the impact of any of these disasters on our business may be exacerbated by the fact that we are still in the process of developing our formal disaster recovery plan and we do not have a final plan in place. 29 Capacity constraints and system failures could prevent access to our website, which could harm our reputation and negatively affect our net revenues. Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our website. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our computer systems and network infrastructure to ensure reliable access to our website, in order to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our net revenues will increase. Our ability to provide high-quality products and service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. If our systems cannot be expanded in a timely manner to cope with increased website traffic, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, lower customer satisfaction, and delays in the introduction of new products and services. Any of these problems could harm our reputation and cause our net revenues to decline. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults that could result in decreased production, limited capacity or reduced demand. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults. These errors or design faults may cause our website to fail and result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services. If we experience a delay in a website release that results in customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults, we would lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases, or delays in the commercial release of any future version of our technology, infrastructure and processes that could seriously harm our business. We currently depend on third party suppliers for our photographic print paper, printing machines and other supplies, which expose us to risks if these suppliers fail to perform under our agreements with them. We have historically relied on an exclusive supply relationship with Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. to supply all of our photographic paper for silver halide print production, such as 4×6 prints. We have an agreement with Fuji that expires in April 2010. If that agreement is not renewed before it expires, or if Fuji fails to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreement and if we are unable to secure a paper supply from a different source in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and harm our business and results of operations. We purchase other photo-based supplies from third parties on a purchase order basis, and, as a result, these parties could increase their prices, reallocate supply to others, including our competitors, or choose to terminate their relationship with us. In addition, we purchase or rent the machines used to produce certain of our photo-based products from Hewlett-Packard, which is one of our primary competitors in the area of online digital photography services. This competition may influence their willingness to provide us with additional products or services. If we were required to switch vendors of machines for photo-based products, we may incur delays and incremental costs, which could harm our operating results. We currently outsource some of our production of photo-based products to third parties, which exposes us to risks if these parties fail to perform under our agreements with them. We currently outsource the production of some of our print and photo-based products to third parties. If these parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreements and if we are unable to secure another outsource partner in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and harm our business and results of operations. 30 If we are unable to develop, market and sell new products and services that address additional market opportunities, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we may need to expand beyond our current customer demographic to grow our business. Although historically we have focused our business on consumer markets for silver halide prints, such as 4×6 prints, and photo-based products, such as photo books and calendars, we intend to address, and demand may shift to, new products and services. In addition, we believe we may need to address additional markets and expand our customer demographic in order to further grow our business. We may not successfully expand our existing services or create new products and services, address new market segments or develop a significantly broader customer base. Any failure to address additional market opportunities could result in loss of market share, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our website through internal development. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, like our June 2007 acquisition of Make it About Me! (“MIAM”), our January 2008 acquisition of Nexo and other technologies or services. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisition, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. Also, the value of our stock may be insufficient to attract acquisition candidates. If we do complete any acquisitions, we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers, and any declines or disruptions in the travel industry could harm our business. Because vacation and other travel is one of the primary occasions in which our customers utilize their digital cameras, our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers. Accordingly, downturns or weaknesses in the travel industry could harm our business. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns such as those currently being experienced in the U.S. and worldwide. Events or weakness in the travel industry that could negatively affect the travel industry include price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries, airline or other travel related strikes, safety concerns, including terrorist activities, inclement weather and airline bankruptcies or liquidations. In addition, high gasoline prices may lead to reduced travel in the United States. Any decrease in vacation or travel could harm our net revenues and results of operations. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our website, our production operations and our trademarks. 31 As of December 31, 2008, we had 28 patents issued and more than 20 patent applications pending in the United States. We intend to pursue corresponding patent coverage in other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. We cannot ensure that any of our pending applications will be granted. In addition, third parties have in the past and could in the future bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our primary brand is “Shutterfly.” We hold registrations for the Shutterfly service mark in our major markets of the United States and Canada, as well as in the European Community, Mexico, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. An additional application for the Shutterfly mark is pending in Brazil. Our competitors may adopt names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of marks that are similar to Shutterfly or one of our other marks. The Shutterfly brand is a critical component of our marketing programs. If we lose the ability to use the Shutterfly service mark in any particular market, we could be forced to either incur significant additional marketing expenses within that market, or elect not to sell products in that market. Any claims or customer confusion related to our marks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities. Third parties may sue us for infringing their intellectual property rights. In June 2007, we were sued by FotoMedia Technologies, LLC alleging patent infringement. In February 2008, we were also sued by Parallel Networks, also alleging patent infringement. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not initiated by us and even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts from growing our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party. For example, in May 2005, we entered into a settlement and license agreement to resolve litigation brought by a third party with respect to our alleged infringement of its patents. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay the third party a total of $2.0 million in exchange for a license to its patents, and we also obtained a royalty-bearing license for certain other private label activities for an additional $2.0 million. Any future license required under any other party’s patents may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and harm our results of operations and possibly prevent us from generating revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. 32 The inability to acquire or maintain domain names for our website could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We currently are the registrant of the Internet domain name for our website, Shutterfly.com, as well as various related domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies and are controlled also by trademark and other related laws. The regulations governing domain names could change in ways that block or interfere with our ability to use relevant domains. Also, we might not be able to prevent third parties from registering or retaining domain names that interfere with our consumer communications, or infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies also may establish additional generic or country-code top-level domains or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Shutterfly in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. This could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We may be subject to past or future liabilities for collection of sales and use taxes, and the payment of corporate level taxes. Our policies concerning the collection of sales and use taxes and the payment of certain corporate level taxes have been based upon decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court that determine when a taxpayer is deemed to have nexus with a state sufficient to impose tax obligations under the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Those Supreme Court decisions require that the taxpayer be physically present before a state can require the collection of sales and use taxes. States are currently attempting to expand the definition of what constitutes physical presence for sales and use taxes. At the same time, the standard governing the imposition of other taxes, for instance, corporate income taxes, is less established and a number of state courts have recently concluded that the Commerce Clause definition of nexus should be expanded to include either “physical” or “economic” presence (essentially marketing activities) which is a broader definition than is used for sales and use tax. In reliance upon the U.S. Supreme Court’s decisions, we have continued to collect sales and use taxes in California, Nevada, Pennsylvania, North Carolina, New York, New Jersey, Arizona and Minneapolis where we have employees and/or property. Starting in June 2007, we also began collecting sales and use taxes in other states where we have implemented joint sales efforts with Target Corporation. While we believe the U.S. Supreme Court decisions support our policies concerning the collection and payment of taxes, tax authorities could disagree with our interpretations. If sustained, those authorities might seek to impose past as well as future liability for taxes and/or penalties. Such impositions could also impose significant administrative burdens and decrease our future sales. Moreover, the U.S. Congress has been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the U.S. Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes. Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation from federal and state audits, and disqualifying dispositions of stock options. Future tax audits by taxing agencies for the open tax years could lead to fluctuations in our effective tax rate because the taxing authority may disagree with certain assumptions we have made regarding appropriate credits and deductions in filing our tax returns. Under current stock option tax regulations, we are entitled to a stock option compensation tax deduction when employees exercise and sell their incentive stock options within a two year period for a taxable gain. Our current effective tax rate estimate does not incorporate this deduction as the extent of the deduction, based on employee option disposition activity is not currently determinable. These disqualifying dispositions could lead to future fluctuations in our effective tax rate for any given quarter or year. 33 Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for including (or for listing or linking to third-party websites that include) materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business. The Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Legislation regarding copyright protection or content interdiction could impose complex and costly constraints on our business model. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve, for the vast majority of our sales, any human-based review of content. Although our website’s terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce the content they provide and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, pornographic, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction. That could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge. We regularly offer free products and free shipping as an inducement for customers to try our products. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers — for example, that customers are required to pay shipping, handling and/or processing charges to take advantage of the free product offer — we may be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation. These claims may be expensive to defend and could divert management’s time and attention. If we become subject to such claims in the future, or are required or elect to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers, our results of operations may be harmed. 34 Any failure by us to protect the confidential information of our customers and networks against security breaches and the risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. For example, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly, orders are shipped to a customer’s address, and customers log on using their e-mail address. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data, personal information or stored images. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to devote significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. In addition, under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. Federal, state and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially harm our business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. International expansion will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development and existing domestic operations. To date, we have conducted limited international operations, but we intend to expand into international markets in order to grow our business. These expansion plans will require significant management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We have limited experience adapting our products to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. We may have to compete with local companies which understand the local market better than we do. In addition, to achieve satisfactory performance for consumers in international locations it may be necessary to locate physical facilities, such as production facilities, in the foreign market. We do not have experience establishing such facilities overseas. We may not be successful in expanding into any international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. In addition, different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business to be harmed. 35 The success of our business depends on continued consumer adoption of digital photography Our growth is highly dependent upon the continued adoption by consumers of digital photography. The digital photography market is rapidly evolving, characterized by changing technologies, intense price competition, additional competitors, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. To the extent that consumer adoption of digital photography does not continue to grow as expected, our revenue growth would likely suffer. Moreover, we face significant risks that, if the market for digital photography evolves in ways that we are not able to address due to changing technologies or consumer behaviors, pricing pressures, or otherwise, our current products and services may become less attractive, which would likely result in the loss of customers, as well as lower net revenues and/or increased expenses. Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. Additional or new regulatory requirements may be adopted in the future. The requirements of existing and potential future rules and regulations will likely continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal control over financial reporting. Significant resources and management oversight are required to design, document, test, implement and monitor internal control over relevant processes and to, remediate any deficiencies. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts also involve substantial accounting related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, we are required to maintain a board of directors with a majority of independent directors. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors and officers, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of NASDAQ rules, will be significantly curtailed. 36 Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the stock market as a whole recently has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies’ operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate include: • Economic downturns and market conditions or trends in our industry or the macro-economy as a whole; • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • impairment or loss in value of our investments in auction rate securities; • the loss of key personnel; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; • future sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. 37 Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board is classified into three classes of directors, each with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president, or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire. 38 ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 