ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSOur net revenues, operating results and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business and cyclical fluctuations in the U.S. economy.Our business is highly seasonal, with a high proportion of our net revenues, net income and operating cash flows generated during the fourth quarter. For example, we generated more than 50% of our 2012 net revenues in the fourth quarter of 2012, and the net income that we generated during the fourth quarter of 2012 was necessary for us to achieve profitability on an annual basis. In addition, we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the fourth quarter holiday season including expenses related to the hiring and training of temporary workers to meet our seasonal needs, additional inventory and equipment purchases and increased advertising. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to consumer demand for our products during the fourth quarter, our financial results, reputation and brands will suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline.We also base our operating expense budgets on expected net revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office, production facility, and various equipment leases and personnel costs, are largely fixed and are based on our expectations of our peak levels of operations. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in net revenues may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter.In addition, our operations and financial performance depend on general economic conditions. The U.S. economy is experiencing a slow economic recovery from a deep recession, concerns about inflation, low consumer confidence, high unemployment rate and other adverse business conditions. Fluctuations in the U.S. economy such as the recent recession could cause, among other conditions, a prolonged decline in consumer spending and an increase in the cost of labor and materials. These conditions could exacerbate variability in our forecasting and could negatively affect our results of operations.If we are unable to meet our production requirements, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed.We believe that we must continue to grow our current production capability to meet our projected net revenue targets. Our capital expenditures were approximately 9% of total net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2012 and approximately 7% of net revenues for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010. We anticipate that total 2013 capital expenditures will range from 9.4% to 10.4% of 2013 net revenues. Operational difficulties, such as a significant interruption in the operations of either our Charlotte, North Carolina or Phoenix, Arizona production facilities, could delay production or shipment of our products. Our inability to meet our production requirements could lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation and brands, which would result in reduced net revenues. Moreover, if the costs of meeting production requirements, including capital expenditures, were to exceed our expectations, our results of operations would be harmed.In addition, we face significant production risks at peak holiday seasons, including the risk of obtaining sufficient qualified seasonal production personnel. A majority of our workforce during the fourth quarter of 2012 was seasonal, temporary personnel. We have had difficulties in the past finding a sufficient number of qualified seasonal employees, and our failure to obtain qualified seasonal production personnel at any of our production facilities could harm our operations.Economic trends could adversely affect our financial performance.We are subject to macro-economic fluctuations in the U.S. economy. Macro-economic issues involving the broader financial markets, including the housing and credit system, have negatively impacted the economy and our financial performance and may have further negative impact in the future.Weak economic conditions, low consumer spending and decreased consumption may harm our operating results. Purchases of our products are often discretionary. If the economic climate does not improve, customers or potential customers could delay, reduce or forego their purchases of our products and services, which could impact our business in a number of ways, including lower prices for our products and services and reduced sales. In addition, adverse economic conditions may lead to price increases by our suppliers or increase our operating expenses due to, among others, higher costs of labor, energy, equipment and facilities. A prolonged and slow economic recovery or a renewed recession may also lead to additional restructuring actions and associated expenses. Due to reduced consumer spending and increased competitive pressures in the current economic environment, we may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers. The resulting increased expenses and/or reduced income would negatively impact our operating results. If the economic recovery continues to be slow, or if the economy experiences a prolonged period of decelerating or negative growth, our results of operations may be further harmed.12Table of Contents Competitive pricing pressures, particularly with respect to pricing and shipping, may harm our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price, especially in times of recession, slow economic growth and consumer conservatism. Many external factors, including our production and personnel costs, consumer sentiment and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations, we could lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations.Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our net revenues and net income. From time to time, we have made changes to our pricing structure, specifically for 4x6 prints, in order to remain competitive. Most of our other products, including photo books, calendars, cards and stationery and other photo merchandise are also offered by our competitors. During the fourth quarter of 2011, many of these competitors discounted those products at an unprecedented level. As a result, we also changed our discounting strategy, which impacted our acquisition of new customers, average order value, net revenues, gross margin, and our adjusted EBITDA and net income profitability measures. If in the future, due to competitor discounting or other marketing strategies, we significantly reduce our prices on our products without a corresponding increase in volume, it would negatively impact our net revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins and overall profitability.We generate a significant portion of our net revenues from the fees we collect from shipping our products. For example, shipping revenue for the Shutterfly brand website represented approximately 16%, 15% and 14% of our net revenues in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We offer discounted or free shipping, with a minimum purchase requirement, during promotional periods to attract and retain customers. If free shipping offers extend beyond a limited number of occasions, are not based upon a minimum purchase requirement or become commonplace, our net revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, we occasionally offer free or discounted products and services to attract and retain customers. In the future, if we increase these offers to respond to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed.We face intense competition from a range of competitors and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors.The digital photography products and services industries are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their offerings, including developing, acquiring and expanding mobile offerings, and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: •Online digital photography services companies such as Snapfish, which is a service of Hewlett-Packard, American Greetings’ Webshots brand, Vistaprint, SmugMug, and many others;•“Big Box” retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco, Sam’s Club and others that are seeking to offer low cost digital photography products and services. These competitors provide in-store fulfillment and self-service kiosks for printing, and may, among other strategies, offer their customers heavily discounted in-store products and services that compete directly with our offerings;•Drug stores such as Walgreens, CVS/pharmacy, and others that offer in-store pick-up from their photo website internet orders;•Mobile digital photography services companies such as Instagram, Woven, and iPhoto;•Self-publishing companies and services such as Lulu, CafePress, and Zazzle;•Cloud-based storage services and file-syncing services such as Dropbox, SugarSync, Box, Amazon Cloud Drive, and iCloud;•Specialized companies in the photo book and stationery business such as Hallmark, Cardstore by American Greetings, Minted, Picaboo, Blurb, MyPublisher, Mixbook, MOO, Smilebox, Creative Memories, and Photobook America;•Photo-related software companies such as Apple, Microsoft, Corel, and FotoFlexer;•Internet portals and search engines such as Yahoo!, AOL, and Google that offer broad-reaching digital photography and related products and services to their large user bases;13Table of Contents•Home printing service providers such as Hewlett-Packard, Epson, Canon, and Kodak that are seeking to expand their printer and ink businesses by gaining market share in the digital photography marketplace;•Social media companies that host and enable mobile access to and posting of images such as Facebook, Twitter, and Myspace;•Photo hosting websites that allow users to upload and share images at no cost such as Picasa, Flickr, and Photobucket; and•Regional photography companies such as Ritz Camera that have established brands and customer bases in existing photography markets.Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, greater brand and name recognition and greater financial, research and development and distribution resources, and operate in more geographic areas than we do. Well-funded competitors may be better able to withstand economic downturns and periods of slow economic growth and the associated periods of reduced customer spending and increased pricing pressures. The numerous choices for digital photography services can cause confusion for consumers, and may cause them to select a competitor with greater name recognition. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development or to investments or partnerships with traditional and online competitors. Well-funded competitors, particularly new entrants, may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. Competitors and new entrants in the digital photography products and services industries may develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render obsolete or less competitive many of our products, services and content. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects.Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our stock price.Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are difficult for us to predict and control. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: •general economic conditions, including recession and slow economic growth in the U.S. and worldwide and higher inflation, as well as those economic conditions specific to the Internet and e-commerce industries;•demand for our products and services, including seasonal demand;•our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors;•our ability to attract visitors to our websites and convert those visitors into customers;•our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases;•the costs of customer acquisition;•our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations;•the costs to produce our prints and photo-based products and merchandise and to provide our services;•the costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or websites;•a significant increase in returns and credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products;•declines or disruptions to the travel industry;•variations in weather, particularly heavy rain and snow which tend to depress travel and picture taking;•the timing of holidays;•volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense;•consumer preferences for digital photography services;•improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing of digital pictures and products; and14Table of Contents•global and geopolitical events with indirect economic effects such as pandemic disease, hurricane and other natural disasters, war, threat of war or terrorist actions.Based on the factors cited above, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may decline.We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future.We have periodically experienced operating losses since our inception in 1999. In particular, we make investments in our business that generally result in operating losses in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year. This typically has enabled us to generate the majority of our net revenue during the fourth quarter and to achieve profitability for the full fiscal year. If we are unable to produce our products and provide our services at commercially reasonable costs, if customer demand decreases and revenues decline or if our expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis.We face many risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties relating to increasing our market share and growing our business.To address the risks and uncertainties of increasing our market share and growing our business, we must do the following:•maintain and increase the size of our customer base;•maintain and enhance our brands;•enhance and expand our products and services;•maintain and grow our websites and customer operations;•successfully execute our business and marketing strategy;•continue to develop and upgrade our technology and information processing systems;•continue to enhance our service to meet the needs of a changing market;•provide superior customer service;•respond to competitive developments; and•attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel.We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these requirements, which could cause our business to suffer. Accomplishing one or more of these requirements might be very expensive, which could harm our financial results. If we are not able to reliably meet our data storage and management requirements, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed.As a part of our current business model, we offer our customers free unlimited online storage and sharing of photographs and, as a result, must store and manage many petabytes of data. This policy results in immense system requirements and substantial ongoing technological challenges, both of which are expected to continue to increase over time. If we are not able to reliably meet these data storage and management requirements, we could have disruptions in services which could impair customer satisfaction and our reputation and lead to reduced net revenues and increased expenses. Moreover, if the cost of meeting these data storage and management requirements exceeds our expectations, our results of operations would be harmed. For example, after massive flooding shut down major hard disk drive production sites in Thailand, our ability to timely acquire data storage products was adversely affected. Our data storage system could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, our primary storage facilities are located near a major fault line, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm our data storage system. If we experience disruption to our redundant systems located at our data storage center, such disruption could result in the deletion or corruption of customers' stored images.15Table of ContentsInterruptions to our websites, information technology systems, print production processes or customer service operations could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our websites, information technology systems, printing production processes and customer service operations are critical to our reputation, and our ability to attract and retain customers and maintain adequate customer satisfaction. Any interruptions that result in the unavailability of our websites or reduced order fulfillment performance or customer service could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brands and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. This risk is heightened in the fourth quarter, as we experience significantly increased traffic to our websites during the holiday season. Any interruption that occurs during such time would have a disproportionately negative impact than if it occurred during a different quarter.We depend in part on third parties to implement and maintain certain aspects of our communications and printing systems. Therefore many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions in the production process may be outside of our control. As a result, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our business interruption insurance policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions that we may experience, and any proceeds we may receive from these policies in the event of a business interruption may not fully compensate us for the revenues we may lose.We may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully.We have website operations, offices and customer support centers in Redwood City, California, Sunnyvale, California, and Tempe, Arizona and production facilities in Charlotte, North Carolina and Phoenix, Arizona and a new facility in Fort Mill, South Carolina that will replace our Charlotte, North Carolina facility, and is expected to be operational in 2013. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies and reporting systems.If we are unable to manage future expansion, we may not be able to implement improvements to our controls, policies and systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be compromised, which would damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.If we are unable to adequately control the costs associated with operating our business, our results of operations will suffer.The primary costs in operating our business are related to producing and shipping products, acquiring customers, compensating our personnel, acquiring equipment and technology and leasing facilities. If we are unable to keep these costs aligned with the level of revenues that we generate, our results of operations would be harmed. Controlling our business costs is challenging because many of the factors that impact these costs are beyond our control. For example, the costs to produce prints, such as the costs of photographic print paper, could increase due to a shortage of silver or an increase in worldwide energy prices. In addition, we may become subject to increased costs by the third-party shippers that deliver our products to our customers, and we may be unable to pass along any increases in shipping costs to our customers. The costs of online advertising and keyword search could also increase significantly due to increased competition, which would increase our customer acquisition costs.We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders.A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our websites through internal development. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions of complementary businesses, such as our 2012 acquisitions of ThisLife, Inc., Penguin Digital, Inc. and Photoccino, Ltd., our 2011 acquisition of Tiny Prints, Inc., and our 2010 acquisition of WMSG, Inc. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be time-consuming and expensive, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not achieve the anticipated benefits we expect due to a number of factors including the loss of management focus on and the diversion of resources from existing businesses; difficulty retaining key personnel of the acquired company; cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from an acquired company into our organization; difficulty integrating acquired technologies into our existing systems; difficulty integrating data systems; and the need to implement or remediate the controls, procedures or policies of the acquired company. Failure to achieve the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities, amortization expenses, or write-offs of goodwill in connection with such acquisitions could harm our operating results.16Table of ContentsIn addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our existing shareholders' ownership, perhaps significantly depending on the terms of such acquisitions and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. In connection with our Tiny Prints acquisition, we issued approximately 5.4 million shares of our common stock as transaction consideration. To finance any future acquisitions, it may also be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private debt and equity financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. Also, the value of our stock may be insufficient to attract acquisition candidates.The loss of key personnel and an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business.We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel. The loss of these key employees, each of whom is “at will” and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. For example, our former chief financial officer resigned effective February 24, 2012 and our chief technology officer resigned effective July 10, 2012. A lack of management continuity could result in operational and administrative inefficiencies and added costs, which could adversely impact our results of operations and stock price and may make recruiting for future management positions more difficult. In addition, we must successfully integrate our new chief financial officer who began in August 2012, and changes in this and other key management positions may temporarily affect our financial performance and results of operations as new management becomes familiar with our business.We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train and motivate qualified personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational and managerial requirements, or we may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. Our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to implement our business plan.If we do not obtain shareholder approval for the issuance of additional shares under the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, our ability to attract and retain key personnel may be adversely affected.At the 2010 annual meeting, our stockholders approved an amendment to our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan (the “2006 Plan”) to renew its “evergreen” provision. According to the amendment, the number of shares available for issuance under the 2006 Plan automatically increased as follows: (i) on January 1, 2011 by 3.5% of the number of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding on December 31, 2010; (ii) on January 1, 2012 by 3.3% of the number of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding on December 31, 2011, and (iii) on January 1, 2013 by 3.1% of the number of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding on December 31, 2012. In addition, in order to attract key personnel, the Board authorized 380,000, 135,100, 200,000, and 736,573 additional inducement stock option grants and restricted stock unit awards to supplement our 2006 Plan, which were granted in 2007, 2008, 2009, and 2012 respectively. As of January 1, 2013, we no longer have automatic increases in the shares issued under the 2006 Plan, and plan to seek shareholder approval for additional shares so that we can continue to attract and retain key personnel. Although we obtained approval to increase the authorized number of shares available for issuance under the 2006 Plan at our 2010 annual meeting, there can be no assurances that our stockholders will approve further increases.In order to attract new personnel, we will need to grant inducement equity awards outside of our 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, which dilutes the ownership of our existing shareholders.Inducement stock options and restricted stock unit awards granted to new employees upon hire in accordance with NASDAQ Listing Rule 5635(c)(4) do not require stockholder approval. In 2012, inducement equity awards outside of our 2006 Plan were issued to our new Chief Financial Officer and new Chief Marketing Officer. In addition, inducement equity awards outside of our 2006 Plan were issued to the new employees that we acquired as part of our purchase of Photoccino, Ltd., Penguin Digital, Inc., and ThisLife, Inc. The issuance of additional shares of common or preferred stock may significantly dilute the equity interest of our stockholders, could cause a change in control if a substantial number of shares of common stock are issued, which may affect, among other things, our ability to use our net operating loss carryforwards, if any, and may adversely affect prevailing market prices for our common stock.17Table of ContentsIf we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, or if we were to become subject to e-mail blacklisting, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to bring visitors to our websites and promote our products, including paying fees to third parties who drive new customers to our websites, purchasing search results from online search engines, e-mail and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other websites and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our websites. We also use e-mail and direct mail to offer free products and services to attract customers, and we offer substantial pricing discounts to encourage repeat purchases. Our methods of attracting customers, including acquiring customer lists from third parties, can involve substantial costs, regardless of whether we acquire new customers. Even if we are successful in acquiring and retaining customers, the cost involved in these efforts impacts our results of operations. Customer lists are typically recorded as intangible assets and may be subject to impairment charges if the fair value of that list exceeds its carrying value. These potential impairment charges could harm our results from operations. If we are unable to enhance or maintain the methods we use to reach consumers, if the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or if we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed, traffic to our websites would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed.In addition, various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” Some of these entities maintain blacklists of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. From time to time we are blacklisted, sometimes without our knowledge, which could impair our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our business. In addition, we have noted that unauthorized “spammers” utilize our domain name to solicit spam, which increases the frequency and likelihood that we may be blacklisted.Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation. We rely on Internet search engines such as Google, including through the purchase of keywords related to photo-based products, to generate traffic to our websites. We obtain a significant amount of traffic via search engines and, therefore, utilize techniques such as search engine optimization and search engine marketing to improve our placement in relevant search queries. Search engines, including Google, frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the purchased or algorithmic placement of links to our websites can be negatively affected. Moreover, a search engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or results causing our websites to place lower in search query results. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects our paid or unpaid search ranking, or if competitive dynamics impact the effectiveness of search engine optimization or search engine marketing in a negative manner, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected, potentially to a material extent. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas and Treat brands, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues.A component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas and Treat brands. Due to the competitive nature of the digital photography products and services markets, if we are unable to successfully promote our brands, we may fail to substantially increase our net revenues. Customer awareness and the perceived value of our brands will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brands, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts.Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience also depends, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers and third-party Internet and communication infrastructure providers. For example, some of our products, such as select photo-based merchandise, are produced and shipped to customers by our third-party vendors, and we rely on these vendors to properly inspect and ship these products. In addition, we rely on third-party shippers, including the U.S. Postal Service, United Parcel Service and FedEx, to deliver our products to customers. Strikes, furloughs, reduced operations or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could impair our ability 18Table of Contentsto deliver merchandise on a timely basis. Our products are also subject to damage during delivery and handling by our third-party shippers. Our failure to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our efforts to develop trusted brands. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations.If we are unable to develop, market and sell new products and services that address additional market opportunities, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we may need to expand beyond our current customer demographic to grow our business.Although historically we have focused our business on consumer markets for silver halide prints, such as 4x6 prints, and photo-based products, such as photo books, stationery cards and calendars, we continually evaluate the demand for new products and services and the need to address these trends. In addition, we believe we may need to address additional markets and expand our customer demographic in order to further grow our business. We may not successfully expand our existing services or create new products and services, address new market segments or develop a significantly broader customer base. Any failure to address additional market opportunities could result in loss of market share, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations.If we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant multichannel experience for our customers, our results of operations may suffer.Our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to produce photos and photo-based products online. As part of our multichannel strategy, we are making technology investments in our websites and recently launched a mobile application for mobile phones and other electronic devices. If we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete could be adversely affected and may result in the loss of market share, which could harm our results of operations. In addition, if our technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of confidence, data security breaches or lost sales, which could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations.If either facility where our computer and communications hardware is located fails or if any of our production facilities fails, our business and results of operations would be harmed.Our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to provide high-quality customer service depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of the computer hardware necessary to operate our websites is located at one third-party hosting facility in Santa Clara, California, and our production facilities are located in Charlotte, North Carolina and Phoenix, Arizona. Our systems and operations could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, insufficient power availability, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, Santa Clara is located near a major fault line increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. We maintain business interruption insurance; however, this insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur, particularly from interruption due to an earthquake which is not covered under our current policy. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations. In addition, the impact of any of these disasters on our business may be exacerbated by the fact that we are still in the process of developing our formal disaster recovery plan and we do not have a final plan in place. Capacity constraints and system failures could prevent access to our websites, which could harm our reputation and negatively affect our net revenues.Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our websites. As our operations grow in size and scope, we continually need to improve and upgrade our computer systems and network infrastructure to ensure reliable access to our websites, in order to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our net revenues will increase.Our ability to provide high-quality products and service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. If our systems cannot be expanded in a timely manner to cope with increased website traffic, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, lower customer satisfaction, and delays in the introduction of new products and services. Any of these problems could harm our reputation and cause our net revenues to decline.19Table of ContentsOur technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults that could result in decreased production, limited capacity or reduced demand.Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults. These errors or design faults may cause our websites to fail and result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services. If we experience a delay in a website release that results in customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults, we would lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases, or delays in the commercial release of any future version of our technology, infrastructure and processes that could seriously harm our business.We currently depend on third party suppliers for our photographic print paper, printing machines and other supplies, which expose us to risks if these suppliers fail to perform under our agreements with them.We have historically relied on an exclusive supply relationship with Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. to supply all of our photographic paper for silver halide print production, such as 4x6 prints. In August 2012, we renewed our supply agreement with Fuji which now expires in August 2015. If that agreement is not renewed before it expires in August 2015, or if Fuji fails to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreement and if we are unable to secure a paper supply from a different source in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brands and harm our business and results of operations. We purchase other photo-based supplies from third parties on a purchase order basis, and, as a result, these parties could increase their prices, reallocate supply to others, including our competitors, or choose to terminate their relationship with us. In addition, we purchase or rent a substantial portion of the machines used to produce certain of our photo-based products from Hewlett-Packard, which is one of our primary competitors in the area of online digital photography services. This competition may influence their willingness to provide us with additional products or services. If we were required to switch vendors of machines for photo-based products, we may incur delays and incremental costs, which could harm our operating results. We currently outsource some of our off-line and on-line marketing, our customer service activities and some of our production of print and photo-based products to third parties, which exposes us to risks if these parties fail to perform under our agreements with them.We currently outsource some of our off-line and on-line marketing, our customer service activities and the production of some of our print and photo-based products to third parties. If these parties fail to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreements and if we are unable to secure another outsource partner in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brands and harm our business and results of operations.Our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers, and any declines or disruptions in the travel industry could harm our business.Because vacation and other travel is one of the primary occasions in which our customers utilize their digital cameras, our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers. Accordingly, downturns or weaknesses in the travel industry could harm our business. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic slowdowns such as those experienced in the U.S. and worldwide. Events or weaknesses that could negatively affect the travel industry include price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries, airline or other travel related strikes, safety concerns, including terrorist activities, pandemic disease (including the influenza virus), inclement weather and airline bankruptcies or liquidations. In addition, high gasoline prices may lead to reduced travel in the United States. Any decrease in vacation or travel could harm our net revenues and results of operations.Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations.We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites, our production operations and our trademarks.As of December 31, 2012, Shutterfly had 55 patents issued, and had more than 40 patent applications pending in the United States. We intend to pursue corresponding patent coverage in other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. We cannot ensure that any of our pending applications will be granted. In addition, third parties have in the past and could in the future bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly 20Table of Contentsto defend, divert management’s time and attention, damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.Our primary brands are “Shutterfly,” “Tiny Prints,” “Wedding Paper Divas,” and "Treat." We hold applications and/or registrations for the Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas and Treat trademarks in our major markets of the United States and Canada as well as in the European Community. We also hold applications and registrations for the Shutterfly mark in Mexico, Japan and China, and for the Shutterfly and Tiny Prints marks in Australia and New Zealand. The Shutterfly and Tiny Prints brands are critical components of our marketing programs. If we lose the ability to use these marks in any particular market, we could be forced to either incur significant additional marketing expenses within that market, or elect not to sell products in that market.From time to time, third parties have adopted names similar to ours, have applied to register trademarks similar to ours, and we believe have infringed or misappropriated our intellectual property rights and impeded our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, we have been and may continue to be subject to potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of marks that are similar to Shutterfly, Tiny Prints, Wedding Paper Divas, Treat or one of our other marks. We respond on a case-by-case basis and where appropriate may send cease and desist letters or commence opposition actions and litigation. However, we cannot ensure that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights are adequate, that our intellectual property rights can be successfully defended and asserted in the future or that third parties will not infringe upon or misappropriate any such rights. In addition, our trademark rights and related registrations may be challenged in the future and could be canceled or narrowed. Failure to protect our trademark rights could prevent us in the future from challenging third parties who use names and logos similar to our trademarks, which may in turn cause consumer confusion or negatively affect consumers' perception of our brands, products, and services. Any claims or customer confusion related to our marks could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities.From time to time, we have received, and likely will continue to receive, communications from third parties inviting us to license their patents or accusing us of infringement. There can be no assurance that a third party will not take further action, such as filing a patent infringement lawsuit, including a request for injunctive relief to bar the manufacture and sale of our products and services in the United States or elsewhere. We may also choose to defend ourselves by initiating litigation or administrative proceedings to clarify or seek a declaration of our rights. Additionally, from time to time, we have to defend against infringement of our intellectual property by bringing suit against other parties. As competition in our market grows, the possibility of patent infringement claims against us or litigation we will initiate increases.For example, in January 2013, a patent infringement lawsuit was filed against us by Express Card Systems, LLC. In September 2011, two patent infringement lawsuits were filed against us and both were dismissed with prejudice. In 2010, two more patent infringement lawsuits were filed against us, one by Express Card Systems, LLC was dismissed without prejudice of all claims and the other, filed by Eastman Kodak Company (“Kodak”), was stayed pending the outcome of the sale of the Kodak patents at issue in the lawsuit. On February 5, 2013, Kodak filed a stipulation and order lifting the stay and dismissing the case with prejudice. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not initiated by us and even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts from growing our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations.Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party. Any future license required under any other party’s patents may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and harm our results of operations and possibly prevent us from generating revenues sufficient to sustain our operations.Various governmental legal proceedings, investigations or audits may adversely affect our business and financial performance.We may be subject to investigations or audits by governmental authorities and regulatory agencies, which can occur in the ordinary course of business or which can result from increased scrutiny from a particular agency towards an industry, country or 21Table of Contentspractice. The resolution of such legal proceedings, investigations or audits could require us to pay substantial amounts of money or take actions that adversely affect our operations. In addition, defending against these claims may involve significant time and expense. For example, we were a party to an Assurance of Discontinuance entered into on September 13, 2010 with the New York Attorney General's office, which related to our business activities in New York regarding discount programs offered by Webloyalty, Inc., one of our former business partners. Given the visibility of our brands, we may regularly be involved in legal proceedings, government investigations or audits that could adversely affect our business and financial performance.We may be subject to past or future liabilities for collection of sales and use taxes, and the payment of corporate level taxes.Our policies concerning the collection of sales and use taxes and the payment of certain corporate level taxes have been based upon decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court that determine when a taxpayer is deemed to have nexus with a state sufficient to impose tax obligations under the Commerce Clause of the U.S. Constitution. Those Supreme Court decisions require that the taxpayer be physically present before a state can require the collection of sales and use taxes. States are currently attempting to expand the definition of what constitutes physical presence for sales and use taxes. At the same time, the standard governing the imposition of other taxes, for instance, corporate income taxes, is less established and a number of state courts have concluded that the Commerce Clause definition of nexus should be expanded to include either “physical” or “economic” presence (essentially marketing activities) which is a broader definition than is used for sales and use tax.We collect sales and use taxes in jurisdictions where we have employees and/or property and in other states where we have implemented joint sales efforts with Target Corporation.While we believe the U.S. Supreme Court decisions support our policies concerning the collection and payment of taxes, tax authorities could disagree with our interpretations. If sustained, those authorities might seek to impose past as well as future liability for taxes and/or penalties. Such impositions could also impose significant administrative burdens and decrease our future sales. Moreover, the U.S. Congress has been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the U.S. Supreme Court's position regarding sales and use taxes.Our effective tax rate may be subject to fluctuation from federal and state audits, and stock-based compensation activity.Future tax audits by taxing agencies for the open tax years could lead to fluctuations in our effective tax rate because the taxing authority may disagree with certain assumptions we have made regarding appropriate credits and deductions in filing our tax returns.Under current stock option tax regulations, our effective tax rate is subject to fluctuations as a result of stock-based compensation activity. This includes items such as shortfalls associated with the vesting of restricted stock units and restricted stock awards, disqualifying dispositions when employees exercise and sell their incentive stock options within a two year period, and cancellation of vested non-qualified stock options.Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations.We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property use and ownership, sales and other taxes, fraud, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. For example:•The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for including (or for listing or linking to third-party websites that include) materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business. 22Table of Contents•The Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. •The Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure Act (“CARD Act”) is intended to protect consumers from unfair credit card billing practices and adds new regulations on the use of gift cards, limiting our ability to expire them. In addition, several states are also attempting to pass new laws regulating the use of gift cards and amending state escheatment laws to try and obtain unused gift card balances. •The Restore Online Shoppers’ Confidence Act (“ROSCA”) prohibits and prevents Internet-based post-transaction third party sales and imposes specific requirements on negative option features. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations.Legislation regarding copyright protection or content interdiction could impose complex and costly constraints on our business model.Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve, for the vast majority of our sales, any human-based review of content. Although our websites' terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce the content they provide and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, pornographic, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction. That could substantially harm our business and results of operations.Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge.We regularly offer free products and free shipping as an inducement for customers to try our products. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers — for example, that customers are required to pay shipping, handling and/or processing charges to take advantage of the free product offer — we may be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators that our free offers are misleading or do not comply with applicable legislation. These claims may be expensive to defend and could divert management’s time and attention. If we become subject to such claims in the future, or are required or elect to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers, our results of operations may be harmed.Any failure by us to protect the confidential information of our customers and networks against security breaches and the risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations. For example, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly, orders are shipped to a customer’s address, and customers log on using their e-mail address. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data, personal information or stored images. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brands and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability, which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could 23Table of Contentsmisappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to devote significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches.In addition, contractors that we hire as well as other employees have access to confidential information, including credit card data. Although we take steps to limit this access, this data could be compromised by these contractors or other employee personnel. Under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions and use of confidential information could damage our reputation and brands and substantially harm our business and results of operations.The inability to acquire or maintain domain names for our brands could substantially harm our business and results of operations.We currently are the registrant of the Internet domain name for Shutterfly.com, TinyPrints.com, WeddingPaperDivas.com and Treat.com as well as various related domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies and are controlled also by trademark and other related laws. The regulations governing domain names could change in ways that block or interfere with our ability to use relevant domains. Also, we might not be able to prevent third parties from registering or retaining domain names that interfere with our consumer communications, or infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Recently, regulatory bodies have approved expanded generic top-level domain names, which involves substantial costs and may lead to an increase in cybersquatting. Regulatory bodies also may establish additional generic or country-code top-level domains or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Shutterfly, TinyPrints, WeddingPaperDivas or Treat in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. This could substantially harm our business and results of operations.Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could harm our business.Federal, state and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially harm our business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers.International expansion will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development and existing domestic operations.To date, we have conducted limited international operations, but we intend to expand into international markets in order to grow our business. These expansion plans will require significant management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We have limited experience adapting our products to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. We may have to compete with established local or regional companies which understand the local market better than we do. In addition, to achieve satisfactory performance for consumers in international locations it may be necessary to locate physical facilities, such as production facilities, in the foreign market. We do not have experience establishing, acquiring or operating such facilities overseas. We may not be successful in expanding into any international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. In addition, different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business to be harmed.The success of our business depends on our ability to adapt to the continued evolution of digital photography.The digital photography market is rapidly evolving, characterized by changing technologies, intense price competition, additional competitors, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. To the extent that consumer adoption of digital photography does not continue to grow as expected, our revenue growth would likely suffer. Moreover, we face significant risks that, if the market for digital photography evolves in ways that we are not able to address due to changing technologies or consumer behaviors, pricing pressures, or otherwise, our current products and services may become less attractive, which would result in the loss of customers, as well as lower net revenues and/or increased expenses.24Table of ContentsPurchasers of digital photography products and services may not choose to shop online, which would harm our net revenues and results of operations.The online market for digital photography products and services is less developed than the online market for other consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who historically have used traditional retail photography services or who have produced photographs and other products using self-service alternatives, such as printing at home. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or reduce the prices of our products and services in order to attract additional online consumers to our websites and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include:•the inability to physically handle and examine product samples;•delivery time associated with Internet orders;•concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information;•delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and•inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items.If purchasers of digital photography products and services do not choose to shop online, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed.The third party software systems that we utilize to assist us in the calculation and reporting of financial data may contain errors that we may not identify in a timely manner.We use numerous third party licensed software packages, most notably our equity software and our enterprise resource planning software, which are complex and fully integrated into our financial reporting. Such third party software may contain errors that we may not identify in a timely manner. If those errors are not identified and addressed timely, our financial reporting may not be in compliance with generally accepted accounting principles.If our internal controls are not effective, there may be errors in our financial information that could require a restatement or delay our SEC filings, and investors may lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could lead to a decline in our stock price.It is possible that we may discover significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. Any failure to maintain or implement required new or improved controls, or any difficulties we encounter in their implementation, could cause us to fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations, or result in material misstatements in our financial information. Any such delays or restatements could cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information and lead to a decline in our stock price.Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members.As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. In addition, the recently passed Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act contains various provisions applicable to the corporate governance functions of public companies. Additional or new regulatory requirements may be adopted in the future. The requirements of existing and potential future rules and regulations will likely continue to increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources.The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and effective internal control over financial reporting. Significant resources and management oversight are required to design, document, test, implement and monitor internal control over relevant processes and to remediate any deficiencies. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts also involve substantial accounting related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Select Market.25Table of ContentsUnder the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, we are required to maintain a board of directors with a majority of independent directors. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors and officers, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of NASDAQ rules, will be significantly curtailed.If affordable broadband access does not become widely available to consumers, our revenue growth will likely suffer.Because our business currently involves consumers uploading and downloading large data files, we are highly dependent upon the availability of affordable broadband access to consumers. Many areas of the country still do not have broadband access, and broadband access may be too expensive for many potential customers. To the extent that broadband access is not available or not adopted by consumers due to cost, our revenue growth would likely suffer.Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance.The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control. In particular, the stock market as a whole recently has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to those companies’ operating performance. Factors that could cause our stock price to fluctuate include:•slow economic growth, and market conditions or trends in our industry or the macro-economy as a whole;•price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market;•changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular;•the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections;•changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock;•ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company;•the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC;•announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;•introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products;•the loss of key personnel;•lawsuits threatened or filed against us;•future sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and•other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events.Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law may deter third parties from acquiring us.Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following:•our board is classified into three classes of directors, each with staggered three-year terms;•only our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president, or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders;26Table of Contents•our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent;•vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders;•our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and•advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders.These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits "business combinations" between a Delaware corporation and an "interested stockholder," which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation's voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests.27Table of ContentsITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.Not applicable.