Item 1A. Risk Factors In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, you should carefully read the following risk factors. The Plan of Dissolution involves significant risks and uncertainties, including, without limitation, the risk factors identified below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our dissolution and the amount and timing of any distributions to stockholders. If any of the following risks actually occur, the ultimate value of distributions to stockholders could decline substantially. Additionally, if any of the following risks actually occur, the value of the shares of VSW’s common stock we received in the Merger may decline substantially. The discussion below and elsewhere in this report also includes forward-looking statements, and actual events may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risks discussed below. Our stockholders may be liable to our creditors for part or all of the amount received from us in dissolution if reserves are inadequate. We established a contingency reserve of $3,000,000 in cash designed to satisfy any additional claims and obligations that may arise. Although our board of directors believes such reserve is adequate for payment of our known and unknown liabilities, any contingency reserve may not be adequate to cover all of our obligations and claims against us due to the uncertainty of unknown liabilities. Under Delaware law, if we fail to create an adequate contingency reserve for payment of our claims and obligations during the three-year period after we file the Certificate of Dissolution, each of our stockholders could be held liable for payment to our creditors of such stockholder’s pro rata share of amounts owed to creditors in excess of the contingency reserve. The liability of any of our stockholders would be limited to the amounts previously received by such stockholder in dissolution from us and from any liquidating trust or trusts. Accordingly, in such event, a stockholder could be required to return part or all of the distributions previously made to such stockholder, and a stockholder could receive nothing from us under the Plan of Dissolution. Moreover, if one of our stockholders has paid taxes on amounts previously received, a repayment of all or a portion of such amount could result in a situation in which a stockholder may incur a net tax cost if the repayment of the amount previously distributed does not cause a commensurate reduction in taxes payable in an amount equal to the amount of the taxes paid on amounts previously distributed. The amount of operating expenses incurred by the Company during its winding down may be higher than expected. The Plan of Dissolution contemplates the orderly sale of the Company's remaining assets and the discharge of all outstanding liabilities to third parties and, after the establishment of appropriate reserves, the distribution of all remaining cash to stockholders. The amount of operating expenses incurred by the Company during its winding down may be higher than expected. If the expenses to operate the Company in accordance with the Plan of Dissolution are higher than expected, the amount of cash to be ultimately distributed to stockholders may be reduced. Our company and Firstlight have had a history of operating losses prior to the Merger and VSW will likely incur future losses after the Merger; if such losses occur and VSW is unable to achieve profitability, the value of its stock, which we received in the Merger, will likely suffer. As of January 31, 2010, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.2 billion. We have operated at a loss for each of the past three fiscal years. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 our net losses were approximately $12.4 million, $22.6 million and $9.1 million, respectively. Our loss from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $12.4 million, $22.6 million and $27.0 million, respectively. We expect that VSW will continue the trend of significant operating losses and uses of cash until the revenue base for its vertical search services and editorial related advertising grows to sufficient levels to support its expenses. Firstlight has also operated at a loss for each of the past three fiscal years. For the fiscal years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, Firstlight’s net losses were approximately $2.6 million, $3.0 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that VSW will generate the revenues required to achieve or maintain profitability in the future or that the value of its common stock will be material. VSW’s failure to achieve and sustain its profitability will negatively impact the market value of its common stock. 4 Table of Contents VSW may need additional capital. If VSW cannot raise capital when needed or cannot raise capital at reasonable terms, its business and financial conditions may be materially impacted; if VSW is able to raise additional capital through equity financing, our ownership of VSW may be diluted. In order to maintain its operation and pursue business strategies, VSW may require additional financing if the internally generated revenues are not sufficient for such purpose, which funding may not be available to VSW on favorable terms, if at all. The availability of such financing is further limited by the recent tightening of the global credit markets, and the lack of investors’ confidence in the equity markets. If VSW is not able to obtain financing when needed or on reasonable terms, its business and financial condition may be materially negatively impacted and thus, the value of our ownership interest in VSW may be materially diminished. If VSW is able to obtain financing through equity issuance, our (and our stockholders’) existing ownership of VSW may be diluted. The current credit and financial market conditions have had a negative impact on global business environment and may exacerbate certain risks affecting the business of VSW. The credit and financial markets have experienced unprecedented volatility, stress, illiquidity and disruption around the world recently and may continue to experience such difficulties. Many of our customers have encountered and may continue to encounter much uncertainty and risks due to the weakened business environment and credit availability, particularly in the publishing area. As a result, these customers may be unable to satisfy their contract obligations, may delay payment, or may delay purchasing VSW’s services, which could negatively affect the business and financial performance of VSW. In addition, the weakened business environment has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact sales of on-line ads, which could negatively affect any business and general performance. If VSW’s business or financial performance is negatively affected, the net realizable value of our ownership interest in VSW may be materially diminished. VSW will be in an extremely competitive market, and if it fails to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological change, its revenues and market share will be adversely affected. The search industry is characterized by intense competition, rapid technological changes, changes in customer requirements and emerging new market segments. VSW’s competitors will include many companies that are larger and more established and have substantially more resources than VSW and may include start-ups as well. Potential competitors to VSW may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of the markets which VSW intends to serve. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In order for VSW’s strategy to succeed, it must provide vertical search services that meet the needs of the business-to-business and specialized publishing companies. VSW will need to invest significant resources in research and development to provide the publishers with leading-edge search technology to help them deliver unique value to their online community and increase online advertising revenues. To effectively compete, VSW will need to continually improve its service offerings and innovate by introducing new services that are responsive to the needs of its users. The development efforts required for this are expensive. If these developments do not generate substantial revenues, VSW’s business and results of operations will be adversely affected and thus, the value of our ownership interest in VSW may be materially diminished. We cannot assure you that VSW will successfully develop any new products or services, complete them on a timely basis or at all, achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenues with them. VSW currently depends on a few customers for substantially all of its revenues. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any one of these customers could significantly reduce VSW’s revenues and harm its operating results. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Firstlight’s two largest customers accounted for approximately 55% of its sales. VSW continues to depend on a few customers for substantially all of its revenues. The loss of, or a significant reduction in orders from, any of these customers could significantly reduce VSW’s revenues and harm its operating results. 5 Table of Contents VSW will depend in part on international sales, particularly in the United Kingdom, and any economic downturn, changes in laws, changes in currency exchange rates or political unrest in the United Kingdom or in other countries could have a material adverse effect on VSW’s business. Significant revenues related to Convera’s previous business, which has been merged into VSW, and a portion of revenues related to Firstlight’s business have been derived from publishers in the United Kingdom. For the year ended January 31, 2010, Convera’s total revenue derived from international sales was approximately $0.2 million, representing approximately 21% of its total revenue. For the year ended January 31, 2009, Convera’s total revenue derived from international sales was approximately $1.0 million, representing approximately 76% of total revenue. For the year ended December 31, 2009, Firstlight’s total revenue derived from sales outside the United States was approximately $471,000, representing approximately 24% of its total revenue. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, Firstlight’s total revenue derived from sales outside the United States were approximately $187,000 and $445,000, respectively, representing approximately 6% and 19% of its total revenue, respectively. Convera’s international operations and sales have historically exposed it to longer accounts receivable and payment cycles and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. International sales had been made mostly from its U.K. subsidiary until its closure in January 2009 and are typically denominated in British pounds. As of January 31, 2010, approximately 7% of Convera’s total consolidated accounts receivable were denominated in British pounds. Since exchange rates vary, those results when translated may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected profitability. VSW will also offer its services internationally and therefore expose itself to similar risks. VSW’s international operations may expose it to a variety of other risks that could seriously impede its financial condition and growth. These risks include the following: · potentially adverse tax consequences; · difficulties in complying with regulatory requirements and standards; · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; · import and export license requirements and restrictions; · regulations on the operation of the internet in certain countries; and · uncertainty of the effective protection of our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. If any of these risks described above materialize, VSW’s international sales could decrease and our foreign operations could suffer. The planned business model of VSW is new to both businesses and may not attract the planned turnover or generate sustainable profits. Until recently, Convera offered its customers its services for an agreed upon time period in return for an agreed upon monthly charge or a share of advertising revenues. Firstlight offered its services only in return for a percentage of advertising revenues. The marketing and pricing considerations of Firstlight differ greatly from those of a subscription model. The cash flow characteristics are also different. The new pricing model for the combined business has not been finalized and we expect it to evolve over the first several months after the effectiveness of the Merger. However, VSW presently intends to offer the combined ad-serving, vertical search and micro-site service in return for a share of advertising revenues with an initial down-payment from the publisher, where possible. There can be no assurance that VSW’s pricing model will be widely accepted by current and new customers and, therefore, VSW may experience a decrease in the demand for its products and services, which would harm its results of operations and cash flows. An unfavorable outcome may result from pending or potential legal proceedings, which could in the future materially and adversely affect VSW’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. Firstlight is involved in a litigation with its former minority shareholder, Jamara Holdings Limited, and such entity’s chief operating officer and shareholder, Brett Campbell Bailey. Although Firstlight believes these legal proceedings have no merit, the outcome of litigation may be uncertain and the costs associated with defending any litigation may have negative financial and other effects on VSW’s financial position, results of operations or cash flows in a particular period. 6 Table of Contents If we decide to distribute shares of VSW’s common stock, our stockholders may be required to hold any such shares that are distributed to them for an indefinite period of time. In accordance with securities laws, we may not distribute shares of VSW’s common stock to our stockholders prior to the one year anniversary of the consummation of the Merger. In addition, the VSW shares subject to distribution are required to be registered. Upon receipt of written notice from us to VSW, VSW is required to use its best efforts to prepare and file, at its own cost, a registration statement on Form 10 with the SEC prior to the date of such distribution, registering VSW’s common stock under the Exchange Act and to cause such common stock to be listed on the NASDAQ Global Market or such other exchange as approved by us and to make other filings required by law. Although VSW is required to use its best efforts to register and list its common stock before such shares are distributed to our stockholders, there can be no assurance that such registration and listing will be completed and no certainty when the registration and listing will become effective, if ever. As a result, our stockholders may be required under securities laws to hold their shares of VSW common stock for an indefinite period of time as “restricted securities” within the meaning of Rule 144 under the Securities Act. As restricted securities, such shares may be resold only pursuant to an effective registration statement or under the requirements of Rule 144 or other applicable exemption from registration under the Securities Act and as required under applicable state securities laws. Allen & Company exercises voting control over a significant percentage of our outstanding shares, and our other stockholders may not have an effective say in any matters upon which our stockholders vote. As of January 31, 2010, Allen & Company beneficially owned approximately 42% of our voting power and would therefore be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote. These matters could include offers to acquire us and elections of directors. Allen & Company may have interests which are different than the interests of our other stockholders. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and may occur again in the future and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Compliance with new regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. As a result, we intend to invest reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, however, such resources are very limited due to the dissolution of our company and the departure of our employees, and such investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. 7 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 