Item 1A. Risk Factors An investment in our common stock involves substantial risks and uncertainties and our actual results and future trends may differ materially from our past performance due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the risk factors identified below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only risks and uncertainties we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, results of operations and financial condition would suffer. In that event, the trading price of our common stock could decline, and our stockholders may lose part or all of their investment in our common stock. The discussion below and elsewhere in this report also includes forward-looking statements, and our actual results may differ substantially from those discussed in these forward-looking statements as a result of the risks discussed below. We have had a history of operating losses and will likely incur future losses; if our losses continue and we are unable to achieve profitability, our stock price will likely suffer. As of January 31, 2009, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $1.1 billion. We have operated at a loss for each of the past three fiscal years. For the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 our net losses were approximately $22.6 million, $9.1 million, $44.8 million, respectively. These financial results include revenues and expenses associated with the Enterprise Search business, the sale of which was completed on August 9, 2007. The loss from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $22.6 million, $27.0 million and $45.3 million, respectively. We expect that the Company will continue the trend of significant operating losses and uses of cash at least for the short term until the revenue base for our vertical search services grows to sufficient levels to support its expenses. We have a short operating history in the vertical search business; the first Convera supported vertical search site was launched into production in November 2006. Previously, our market strength had been in the government sector, whereas we now compete solely within the commercial sector. In addition, our revenue contracts generally stipulate that we will receive a percentage of website advertising revenues, and online advertising is an immature and rapidly evolving industry. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will generate the revenues required to achieve or maintain profitability in the future. You should assess our business in light of the risks, difficulties, uncertainties, and expenses associated with managing and growing a relatively new business in a rapidly evolving market. Our failure to achieve and sustain our profitability will negatively impact the market price of our common stock. Our ability to achieve profitability is dependent on our vertical search business and if it fails to achieve market acceptance we will be unable to grow our business and achieve profitability. Our future profitability will depend on our ability to successfully market and achieve market acceptance for our vertical search services offering. The degree of market acceptance will depend upon a number of factors, including: · the advantages of our vertical search services over competing products; · our ability to innovate and develop new features for our vertical search offering; · customer needs for search products; · the price and cost-effectiveness of our vertical search offering; and · the strength of sales, marketing and distribution support. 6 Table of Contents We are aware of a significant number of competing well-established search products offered by companies with significantly greater financial and marketing resources than us. Even if our vertical search services achieve market acceptance, we may not be able to maintain that market acceptance over time if competing products or services are introduced that are viewed as more effective or are more favorably received. If our vertical search services do not achieve and maintain market acceptance, we will not be able to generate sufficient revenue to attain profitability. While we believe that we will have sufficient funds for our operations for at least the next twelve months, it is possible that we will need additional capital during or after that time. If such additional capital is not available to us on acceptable terms or at all, it could harm our financial condition and future prospects. As of January 31, 2009, our balances of cash and cash equivalents were approximately $22.8 million. We believe our current balance of cash and cash equivalents will be sufficient to meet our working capital and capital expenditure requirements for at least the next twelve months based upon our estimates of funds required to operate our business during such period. However, during or after that time, we may need to raise additional funds for the following purposes: · to fund our operations, including sales, marketing and research and development programs; · to fund any growth we may experience; · to enhance and/or expand the range of products and services we offer; · to increase our promotional and marketing activities; or · to respond to competitive pressures and/or perceived opportunities, such as investment, acquisition and international expansion activities. We cannot reassure our investors that if we need additional capital that it will be available, and if so, on terms beneficial to us. Historically, we have obtained external financing primarily from sales of our common stock. To the extent we raise additional capital by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience substantial dilution. If we are unable to obtain additional capital, we may then attempt to preserve our available resources by various methods including deferring the creation or satisfaction of commitments, reducing expenditures on our research and development programs or otherwise scaling back our operations. If we were unable to raise such additional capital or defer certain costs as described above, that inability would have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and prospects. Our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on NASDAQ if we fail to maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share for any consecutive 30 trading day period. A notification of delisting or a delisting of our common stock would adversely affect the price and liquidity of our common stock. NASDAQ’s quantitative listing standards require, among other things, that listed companies maintain a minimum closing bid price of $1.00 per share. However, NASDAQ has recently suspended its minimum closing bid price threshold through July 20, 2009. If, upon reinstatement of the minimum closing bid price threshold, we fail to satisfy this threshold for any consecutive 30 trading day period, our common stock may be involuntarily delisted from trading on NASDAQ once the applicable grace period expires. Our stock price has recently fallen below the $1.00 per share threshold. Given the increased market volatility arising in part from economic turmoil resulting from the ongoing credit crisis, as well as our history of operating losses, the closing bid price of our common stock could remain below $1.00 per share. A notification of delisting or delisting of our common stock could materially adversely affect the market price and market liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise necessary capital. The current credit and financial market conditions have a negative impact on global business environment and may exacerbate certain risks affecting our business. The credit and financial markets are currently experiencing unprecedented volatility, stress, illiquidity and disruption around the world. Many of our customers have encountered and may continue to encounter much uncertainty and risks due to the weakening business environment and credit availability, particularly in the publishing area. As a result, these customers may be unable to satisfy their contract obligations, may delay payment, or may delay purchasing our services, which could negatively affect our business and financial performance. In addition, the weakening business environment has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact sales of on-line ads, which could negatively affect any business and general performance. 7 Table of Contents We are in an extremely competitive market, and if we fail to compete effectively or respond to rapid technological change, our revenues and market share will be adversely affected. Our business environment and the search industry in general are characterized by intense competition, rapid technological changes, changes in customer requirements and emerging new market segments. Our competitors include many companies that are larger and more established and have substantially more resources than us and may include start-ups as well. Current and potential competitors have established or may establish cooperative relationships among themselves or with third parties to increase the ability of their products to address the needs of the markets which we serve. Accordingly, it is possible that new competitors or alliances among competitors may emerge and rapidly acquire significant market share. In order for our strategy to succeed and to remain competitive, we must provide vertical search services that meet the needs of the B2B and specialized publishing companies. We will need to invest significant resources in research and development to provide the publishers with leading-edge search technology to help them deliver unique value to their online community and increase online advertising revenues. To effectively compete we will need to continually improve our current service offerings and innovate by introducing new services that are responsive to the needs of our users. The development efforts required for this are expensive, and we plan to fund these developments with our existing capital resources, and other sources, such as equity issuances and borrowings, which may be available to us. If these developments do not generate substantial revenues, our business and results of operations will be adversely affected. We cannot assure you that we will successfully develop any new products or services, complete them on a timely basis or at all, achieve market acceptance or generate significant revenues with them. We depend on international sales, particularly in the United Kingdom, and any economic downturn, changes in laws, changes in currency exchange rates or political unrest in the United Kingdom or in other countries could have a material adverse effect on our business. To date, the majority of revenues related to our business have been derived from publishers in the United Kingdom. For the year ended January 31, 2009, total revenue derived from international sales was approximately $1.0 million, representing approximately 76% of total revenue. For the year ended January 31, 2008, total revenue derived from international sales was approximately $1.0 million, representing approximately 88% of total revenue. Our international operations and sales have historically exposed us to longer accounts receivable and payment cycles and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. International sales had been made mostly from our U.K. subsidiary until its closure in January 2009 and are typically denominated in British pounds. As of January 31, 2009, approximately 71% of our total consolidated accounts receivable were denominated in British pounds. Since exchange rates vary, those results when translated may vary from expectations and adversely impact overall expected profitability. Our international operations expose us to a variety of other risks that could seriously impede our financial condition and growth. These risks include the following: · potentially adverse tax consequences; · difficulties in complying with regulatory requirements and standards; · trade restrictions and changes in tariffs; · import and export license requirements and restrictions; and · uncertainty of the effective protection of our intellectual property rights in certain foreign countries. If any of these risks described above materialize, our international sales could decrease and our foreign operations could suffer. 8 Table of Contents Our vertical search offering relies on a third party hosting facility, and any failure or interruption in the services provided by this third party could harm our ability to operate our business and damage our reputation. We rely on AT&T to host our vertical search offering. We do not control the operation of the AT&T facility, which may be subject to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures or similar events. The facility may also be subject to break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism or similar misconduct. Despite precautions taken at the facility, the occurrence of a natural disaster, cessation of operations by our third-party web hosting provider or its decision to close the facility without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems at the facility could result in lengthy interruptions in our service. In addition, the failure by the facility to provide our required data communications capacity could result in interruptions in our service. Interruptions in our service may cause us to lose revenue, cause us to issue credits or refunds and cause customers to terminate their contracts with us. Our business and reputation will be adversely affected if our customers and potential customers believe our vertical search service is unreliable. Because of the technical nature of our business, our intellectual property is extremely important to our business, and adverse changes to our intellectual property could harm our ability to compete. We believe that our success depends, in part, on our ability to protect our proprietary rights and technology. Historically, we have relied on a combination of copyright, patents, trademark and trade secret laws, employee confidentiality and invention assignment agreements, and other methods to safeguard our technology and software products and services. Risks associated with our intellectual property include the following: · pending patent applications may not be issued; · intellectual property laws may not protect our intellectual property rights; · third parties may challenge, invalidate, or circumvent any patent issued to us; · rights granted under patents issued to us may not provide competitive advantages to us; · unauthorized parties may attempt to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights; · others may independently develop similar technology or design around any patents issued to us; and · effective protection of intellectual property rights may be limited or unavailable in some foreign countries in which we operate. We may in the future be subject to intellectual property rights claims, which are costly to defend and could require us to pay damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies in the future. Companies in the internet, search and technology industries own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. We face the possibility of intellectual property rights claims against us. Our technologies may not be able to withstand any third-party claims or rights against their use. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, expensive to litigate or settle and could divert management resources and attention. With respect to any intellectual property rights claim, we may have to pay damages or stop using technology if it is ultimately found by a court to be in violation of a third party’s rights. We may have to seek a license for the technology, which may not be available on reasonable terms and may significantly increase our operating expenses. The technology also may not be available for license to us at all. As a result, we may also be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for the infringing aspects of our business, we may be forced to limit our product and service offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results could harm our operating results. We depend on highly skilled personnel, the loss of whom would adversely affect our ability to effectively grow our business and we may have difficulty attracting and retaining skilled employees. Our success depends to a significant degree upon the continued contributions of our key management and other highly skilled individuals. We generally do not utilize employment agreements for our key employees. The loss of the services of one or more key employees could have a material adverse effect on our ability to grow our business. We also believe that our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our business. Competition for personnel within the internet and search industries is intense. There can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. 9 Table of Contents Our stock price has been and may continue to be highly volatile which may make it difficult to resell shares of our stock. The market price of our common stock has been highly volatile. For example, in the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009, the market price per share of our common stock ranged from $0.16 to $2.24 This volatility may adversely affect the price of our common stock, and our stockholders may not be able to resell their shares of common stock following periods of volatility because of the market's adverse reaction to this volatility. We anticipate that this volatility, which frequently affects the stock of technology companies, will continue. Our stock price may fluctuate and you may not be able to resell shares of our stock for a profit as a result of a number of factors including: · future announcements concerning us or our competitors; · quarterly variations in our operating results; · actual or anticipated announcements of technical innovations or new product or service developments by us or our competitors; · general conditions in our industry; · concentrated holdings of our common stock; · sales of stock by us or by our stockholders; · the low trading volume of our common stock, which means that small changes in the volume of trades may have a disproportionate impact on our stock price; · developments concerning litigation; and · worldwide economic and financial conditions, including the current economic crisis. On occasion, the equity markets, and in particular the markets for technology companies, have experienced significant price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have affected the market price for many companies' securities and may be unrelated to the companies' operating performance. We may not be able to use net operating loss carryforwards. As of January 31, 2009, we had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $229 million. The deferred tax assets representing the benefits of these carryforwards have been offset completely by a valuation allowance due to our lack of an earnings history. The realization of the benefits of these carryforwards depends on sufficient taxable income in future years. Lack of future earnings could adversely affect our ability to utilize these carryforwards. Additionally, past or future changes in our ownership and control could limit the ability to utilize these carryforwards. Despite the carryforwards, we may have income tax liability in future years due to the application of the alternative minimum tax rules of the United States Internal Revenue Code. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation, bylaws, ownership and Delaware law contain provisions that could discourage a third party from acquiring us and consequently decrease the market value of an investment in our stock. Some provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, as well as our ownership structure, could delay or prevent a change of control or changes in our management that a stockholder might consider favorable. Any delay or prevention of a change of control or change in management could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. These provisions include: · Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The issuance of preferred stock may delay, defer or prevent a change in control, as the terms of the preferred stock that might be issued could potentially prohibit our consummation of any merger, reorganization, sale of substantially all of our assets, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction without the approval of the holders of the outstanding shares of preferred stock. · Our Board of Directors may alter our bylaws without obtaining stockholder approval. · We are subject to the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law which prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in certain business combinations with any interested stockholder for a period of three years, unless specific conditions are met. 10 Table of Contents Allen Holding Inc. and related parties exercise voting control over a significant percentage of our outstanding shares, and our other stockholders may not have an effective say in any matters upon which our stockholders vote. As of January 31, 2009, Allen & Company beneficially owned approximately 42% of our voting power and held two seats on the Board of Directors, and would therefore be able to influence the outcome of matters requiring a stockholder vote. These matters could include offers to acquire us and elections of directors. Allen & Company may have interests which are different than the interests of our other stockholders. Legislative actions and potential new accounting pronouncements are likely to impact our future financial position or results of operations. Future changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse, unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our financial position or results of operations. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of pronouncements have occurred with frequency in the past and may occur again in the future and as a result we may be required to make changes in our accounting policies. Compliance with new regulations regarding corporate governance and public disclosure may result in additional expenses. As a result, we intend to invest all reasonably necessary resources to comply with evolving standards, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from science and business activities to compliance activities. For example, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur substantial costs and expend significant resources to comply with the regulations promulgated under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Our internal controls may not be sufficient to achieve all stated goals and objectives. Our internal controls and procedures were developed through a process in which our management applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of such controls and procedures, which, by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance regarding the control objectives. The design of any system of internal controls and procedures is based in part upon various assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. We may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and sustain a loss of public confidence if we are unable to satisfy regulatory requirements relating to our internal controls over financial reporting and/or we have internal control weaknesses which result in material financial reporting errors. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires us to perform an evaluation of our internal controls over financial reporting. Compliance with these requirements can be expensive and time-consuming. While we believe that we will be able to meet the required deadlines, no assurance can be given that we will meet the required deadlines in future years when our independent registered public accounting firm will be required to attest. Our evaluation was not subject to attestation by our registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only management’s report in this annual report. If we fail to timely complete this evaluation, or if our auditors cannot timely attest to our evaluation in future years, we may be subject to regulatory scrutiny and a loss of public confidence in our internal controls. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ensures that companies are reporting accurate revenue numbers and revenue recognition policies have been under particular scrutiny. Any weaknesses in our internal controls on our financial reporting of revenue could cause prospective revenue adjustments or changes in our future revenue recognition policies. Either result could cause unexpected changes to current and/or anticipated future operating results and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and stock price. 11 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments There are no material unresolved SEC staff comments as of the date of this report. Item 