Item 1A. Risk Factors Our future operating results may differ materially from the results described in this report due to the risks and uncertainties related to our business and our industry, including those discussed below. In addition, these factors represent risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those implied by forward-looking statements in this report. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Business We are a biopharmaceutical company with a limited operating history and have generated no revenue from product sales. As a development stage company, we face many risks inherent in our business. If we do not overcome these risks, our business will not succeed. Biopharmaceutical product development is a highly speculative undertaking and involves a substantial degree of risk. We commenced operations in May 1997, and since that time we have been engaged in research and development activities in connection with our product candidates. We have never generated any revenue from product sales. All of our current product candidates are at an early stage of development, and we do not expect to realize revenue from product sales for several more years, if at all. In addition, we are not currently receiving any significant funding for our research and development programs from third parties through collaborations or grants, except for our HHS contract to develop a “dose-sparing” IS patch for use in the event of a pandemic flu outbreak. We are seeking to create a business based upon new technology that is intended to change existing practices of vaccine delivery. As such, we are subject to all the risks incident to the creation of new products and may encounter unforeseen expenses, difficulties, complications and delays and other unknown factors. You also should consider that we will need to: • obtain sufficient capital to support our efforts to develop our technology and commercialize our product candidates; • complete and continue to enhance the product characteristics and development of our product candidates; and • attempt to transition from a development stage company to a company capable of supporting commercial activities. We have a history of operating losses and may never be profitable. We have incurred substantial losses since our inception, and we expect to continue to incur substantial losses for the foreseeable future. Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $28.3 million. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of approximately $129.1 million. These losses have resulted principally from costs incurred in our research and development programs and from our general and administrative costs. We expect to incur additional operating losses in the future, and we expect these losses to increase significantly, whether or not we generate revenue, as we expand our product development and clinical trial efforts. These losses have had, and are expected to continue to have, an adverse impact on our working capital, total assets and stockholders’ equity. 21 To date, we have generated no revenue from product sales or royalties. We do not expect to achieve any revenue from product sales or royalties unless and until we receive regulatory approval and begin commercialization of our product candidates. We are not certain of when, if ever, that will occur. Even if the regulatory authorities approve any of our product candidates and we commercialize these candidates, we may never be profitable. Even if we achieve profitability for a particular period, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability. We will need additional funding, and we cannot guarantee that we will find adequate sources of capital in the future. As of December 31, 2007, we had approximately $15.5 million in unrestricted cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. We have incurred negative cash flows from operations since inception and have expended, and expect to continue to expend, substantial funds to conduct our research and development programs. In January 2007, we were awarded a five-year, $128 million contract by HHS to fund our development of a dose-sparing patch for use with a pandemic flu vaccine. During the first 15 months of the contract, HHS has allotted approximately $14.5 million to reimburse us for our activities under that contract. As of December 31, 2007, we had recognized revenue under the HHS contract of approximately $10.7 million, of which approximately $8.4 million has been billed and approximately $6.6 million has been paid. We currently expect to bill the government for the full $14.5 million authorized under the initial phase of the contract. We believe that our current working capital and reimbursement of expenses under our existing government grants and contracts will be sufficient to fund our operating expenses and capital requirements into the third quarter of 2008, although we cannot assure you that we will not require additional funds before then as our operating plan may change as a result of many factors currently unknown to us. In budgeting for our activities, we have relied on a number of assumptions, including assumptions that we will continue to expend funds in preparation for the Phase 3 trials for our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine, that we will not receive any proceeds from potential partnerships, that we will not receive any funds under the HHS contract beyond the $14.5 million allocated for the initial phase of that contract, that government will pay our invoices timely, that we will continue to evaluate preclinical candidates for potential development, that we will not engage in further in-licensing activities, that we will be able to retain our key personnel, and that we will not incur any significant contingent liabilities any of which might change in light of developments. In particular, we will need additional funding prior to the commencement of our pivotal Phase 3 clinical trial of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine, for which we expect preparations to begin in late 2008 and, based on our current estimates, we expect our Phase 3 program to cost in the range of $30 to $45 million in third-party expenses. We also may seek additional capital due to favorable market conditions or strategic considerations even if we believe we have sufficient funds for our current or future operating plans. We have based this estimate on assumptions that may prove to be wrong. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including: • the number, size and complexity of our clinical trials; • our progress in developing our product candidates; • the timing of and costs involved in obtaining regulatory approvals; • costs of manufacturing our product candidates; • costs to maintain, expand and protect our intellectual property portfolio; and • costs to develop our sales and marketing capability. We expect to raise additional funds in advance of when we exhaust our cash resources, which, if we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, will result in further dilution to our stockholders. Any equity securities issued also may provide for rights, preferences or privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt securities, these debt securities would have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock, and the terms of the debt securities issued could impose significant restrictions on our operations. If we raise additional funds through collaborations and licensing arrangements, we might be required to relinquish significant rights to our technology, product candidates or products that we would otherwise seek to develop or commercialize ourselves, or to grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. We do not know whether additional financing will be available on commercially acceptable terms when needed. If adequate funds are not available or are not available on commercially acceptable terms, we may need to downsize or halt our operations and may be unable to continue developing our product candidates. 22 We will need to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine in one or more Phase 3 clinical trials in order to obtain approval by the FDA and other regulatory authorities, and there can be no assurance that our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine will achieve positive results in further clinical testing. Positive results in early clinical trials of a vaccine candidate may not be replicated in later clinical trials. A number of companies in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries have suffered significant setbacks in late-stage clinical trials even after achieving promising results in earlier-stage development. Although our recently completed Phase 2 field trial of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine showed that our vaccine resulted in a 75% reduction in moderate-to-severe diarrhea from any cause, the planned Phase 3 efficacy trial, which we plan to conduct during the summer of 2009 when the travelers’ diarrhea season in Latin America is at its peak, may not achieve similar positive results. A number of factors could contribute to a lack of positive results in our planned Phase 3 clinical trial. For example, the incidence of diarrhea or causative organisms could be different in a particular year than we predict or if our subjects do not travel during the peak travelers’ diarrhea season, the performance of our patch system may not replicate results observed in prior trials, and we may not meet our recruitment targets because of changes in travel patterns. Our current rationale for selecting the primary endpoints for our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine is based on existing clinical trial results and our understanding of the mechanism of action of this product candidate. However, our understanding of the product candidate’s mechanism of action may be incomplete or incorrect, or the mechanism may not be clinically relevant to preventing travelers’ diarrhea. In such cases, our product candidate may prove to be ineffective in the Phase 3 efficacy clinical trial. We presently intend to seek regulatory approval for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine in both the United States and the European Union, so we expect to meet with the FDA and European regulatory authorities during 2008 to review our plans for the Phase 3 trials for this product candidate. At this time, we are evaluating various possible primary endpoints. We can give no assurances, however, that the FDA, European Medicines Agency (EMEA), or any other regulatory body will not require a different primary endpoints or additional efficacy endpoints for registration. Moreover, given that we currently plan to follow only travelers to Guatemala and Mexico in the efficacy trial, the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities may not allow us to claim prevention of travelers’ diarrhea on a global basis without additional sites in other endemic areas. If the FDA or EMEA requires different or any additional efficacy endpoints, we may be required to conduct larger or longer Phase 3 clinical trials than currently planned to achieve a statistically significant result to enable approval of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine or accept a narrow label indication. Prior to our end-of-Phase 2 meeting with the FDA, we plan to conduct at least one more Phase 2 trial to confirm that the patches from our recently installed commercial patch manufacturing line yield immunogenicity results similar to those observed in prior studies. We expect results from this Phase 2 trial in the third quarter of 2008. If the results of this trial do not confirm data from our prior studies, or if, after our end-of-Phase 2 meeting, the FDA requires us to conduct additional Phase 2 clinical trials of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine prior to initiating our Phase 3 efficacy trial, we will incur significant additional development costs, and the initiation of our Phase 3 program may be delayed or cancelled. Our current plan is for the second dose of the two-dose regimen for our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine to be self-applied two weeks after the first immunization by a clinician, so that full vaccination requires only one visit to a doctor’s office. This strategy is based on the interim results of our 160-subject Phase 2 study, which we announced in February 2008. Four groups were evaluated: two groups received both doses of the vaccine from a medical professional and two other groups of volunteers administered the second vaccine patch themselves. All groups had robust responses to the vaccine, and a statistical analysis of immune parameters following vaccination showed no significant differences between treatment groups at measured time points. While we believe that our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine may be amenable to self-administration based on these results, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not concur with our analysis. Whether any approved product would be self-administered would depend on many factors, including the outcome of any future studies evaluating self-administration and the views of regulatory agencies. If we do not receive positive results in our Phase 3 clinical program for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize this product and our development of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine may be delayed or cancelled. 23 The success of some programs may depend on licensing biologics from, and entering into collaboration arrangements with, third parties. We cannot be certain that our licensing or collaboration efforts will succeed or that we will realize any revenue from them. The success of our business strategy is, in part, dependent on our ability to enter into multiple licensing and collaboration arrangements and to manage effectively the numerous relationships that will result. For example, we currently do not intend to manufacture any product components other than heat labile toxin (LT) adjuvant and formulated patches. Therefore, we will need to negotiate agreements to acquire biologics, such as the flu antigens contained in our needle-free flu vaccine patch development candidate, and other product components from third parties in order to develop some of our vaccine candidates (other than our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine patch and IS patch). We are seeking a collaboration with respect to our needle-free flu patch. We are also seeking potential collaborations for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine. The remaining development program and potential commercialization of our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine will require substantial additional cash to fund expenses. In particular, we will need additional funding prior to the commencement of our Phase 3 clinical trial of our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine, and, based on our current estimates, we expect our Phase 3 program to cost in the range of $30 to $45 million in third-party expenses. Our current strategy includes potentially selectively collaborating with a leading pharmaceutical or biotechnology company to assist us in furthering development and potential commercialization of this product candidate. We are currently evaluating whether to advance this program ourselves or through one or more collaborations. We face significant competition in seeking appropriate collaborators, and these collaborations are complex and time-consuming to negotiate and document. We may not be able to negotiate collaborations on acceptable terms, or at all. If that were to occur, we may have to curtail the development of a particular drug candidate, reduce or delay its development program or one or more of our other development programs, delay its potential commercialization or reduce the scope of our activities, or increase our expenditures and undertake development or commercialization activities at our own expense. If we elect to increase our expenditures to fund development or commercialization activities on our own, we may need to obtain additional capital, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all. If we do not have sufficient funds, we will not be able to bring our drug candidates to market and generate product revenue. A failure to enter into a collaboration could delay development of our product candidates. Also, we may not establish a direct sales force for any of our products and, therefore, may need to establish marketing arrangements with third parties or major pharmaceutical companies. Our ability to enter into agreements with commercial partners depends in part on convincing them that our TCI technology can help achieve and accelerate their goals or efforts. This may require substantial time and effort on our part. While we anticipate expending substantial funds and management effort, we cannot assure you that a strategic relationship will result or that we will be able to negotiate additional strategic agreements in the future on acceptable terms, if at all. Furthermore, we may incur significant financial commitments to collaborators in connection with potential licenses or sponsored research agreements. Generally, we will not be able to directly control the areas of responsibility undertaken by our strategic partners and we will be adversely affected should these partners prove unable to carry the product candidates forward to full commercialization or should they lose interest in dedicating the necessary resources toward developing such products quickly. Third parties may terminate our licensing and other strategic arrangements if we do not perform as required under these arrangements. Generally, we expect that agreements for rights to develop technologies will require us to exercise diligence in bringing product candidates to market and will require us to make milestone and royalty payments that, in some instances, are substantial. Our failure to exercise the required diligence or make any required milestone or royalty payment could result in the termination of the relevant license agreement, which could have a material adverse effect on us and our operations. In addition, these third parties may also breach or terminate their agreements with us or otherwise fail to conduct their activities in connection with our relationships in a timely manner. If we or our partners terminate or breach any of our licenses or relationships, we: • may lose our rights to develop and market our product candidates; • may lose patent and/or trade secret protection for our product candidates; • may experience significant delays in the development or commercialization of our product candidates; • may not be able to obtain any other licenses on acceptable terms, if at all; and • may incur liability for damages. 24 Licensing arrangements and strategic relationships in our industry can be very complex, particularly with respect to intellectual property rights. Disputes may arise in the future regarding ownership rights to technology developed by or with other parties. These and other possible disagreements between us and third parties with respect to our licenses or our strategic relationships could lead to delays in the research, development, manufacture and commercialization of our product candidates. These disputes could also result in litigation or arbitration, both of which are time-consuming and expensive. These third parties also may pursue alternative technologies or product candidates either on their own or in strategic relationships with others in direct competition with us. We may not be able to manufacture our product candidates in commercial quantities, which would prevent us from initiating Phase 3 trials and commercializing our product candidates. To date, our product candidates have been manufactured in small quantities by us and third party manufacturers for preclinical and clinical trials. As we prepare our facility for Phase 3 and commercial manufacturing, this may require scale up of our fermentation, downstream processing and patch manufacturing as compared to our current levels. For example, we have recently installed manufacturing equipment capable of producing initial commercial quantities of our vaccine patches. While we have completed initial engineering runs on this upgraded equipment, we have limited experience manufacturing patches on this upgraded equipment and this may cause delays in manufacturing clinical materials for future studies. We are also making some modifications to our manufacturing facility during the first half of 2008 in order to ready it for production of Phase 3 materials. Once these modifications are complete, we will then have to requalify the manufacturing facility’s major systems before we are able to make any Phase 3 materials. In addition, we are conducting risk-based pre-process validation studies to identify and test critical control parameters for our travelers’ diarrhea product candidate and our manufacturing process. We intend to share the results from these experiments with the FDA at our end-of-Phase 2 meeting, so we can agree on the approaches for validating the manufacturing process and process controls. These projects may result in unanticipated delays and cost more than expected due to a number of factors, including complying with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, regulations for clinical and commercial production, such as qualification and validation of these equipment, and this could result in the delay of initiation of our planned Phase 3 trials and commercial launch of products. Presently, we plan to conduct at least one more Phase 2 trial for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine to confirm that the patches from this recently installed commercial patch manufacturing line yield immunogenicity results similar to those observed in prior studies. We expect results from this Phase 2 trial in the third quarter of 2008. If the results of this trial do not confirm data from our prior studies, we may incur significant additional development costs and initialization of our Phase 3 program may be delayed or cancelled. If any of our product candidates is approved by the FDA or other regulatory agencies for commercial sale, we will need to manufacture it in larger quantities. We or our third party manufacturers may not be able to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for any of our product candidates in a timely or economic manner, or at all. If we are unable to successfully increase the manufacturing capacity for a product candidate, the regulatory approval or commercial launch of that product candidate may be delayed or there may be a shortage in the supply of the product candidate. Our product candidates require precise, high quality manufacturing that is subject to cGMP. Our failure or the failure of our third party manufacturers to achieve and maintain these high manufacturing standards and comply with the cGMP, including the incidence of manufacturing errors, could result in injury or death, product recalls or withdrawals, delays or failures in product testing or delivery, cost overruns or other problems that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our manufacturing facilities will be subject to unannounced inspections by the FDA, and significant scale-up of manufacturing may require additional validation studies, which the FDA must review and approve. 25 Our IS patch for pandemic flu program relies on government health organizations for funding clinical development and for ultimately procuring the product, if approved. We are currently relying upon the United States government to fund our IS patch for pandemic flu. In January 2007, we entered into a five-year, $128 million cost-reimbursement contract with the HHS to develop a “dose-sparing” patch for use in the event of an influenza pandemic where the HHS will fund our costs for research, development and capital and will pay a fixed fee. Currently, HHS has allocated $14.5 million through the first 15 months of the contract for us to assess the safety and adjuvant effect of the IS patch in an initial clinical trial and to develop plans on how we would produce 150 million IS patches in a six-month period, as required under the contract. In March 2008, we announced the interim results from the 500-subject Phase 1/2 trial to assess the safety and adjuvant effect of the IS patch. We have shared the data with HHS and are now working with them to determine possible next steps. Upon completion of its review of the data, HHS will make a determination as to whether and, if so, how to continue the development of this product. If the results for this clinical trial are not deemed adequate by HHS or we fail to satisfy, from HHS’s perspective, the requirements regarding our product development and manufacturing plans, HHS may not extend the contract through its full term, in which event we may not be able to proceed with the balance of the contract. In our performance under the HHS contract, we are highly dependent on timely and adequate performance of our subcontractors, including Solvay Pharmaceuticals, which is supplying us with injectable pandemic flu vaccine and regulatory support for our clinical trials, and our architectural design and engineering firm. If the performance of our subcontractors is not adequate or timely, our performance under our HHS contract may be delayed, and we therefore may not be able to satisfy the contract’s requirements, which could cause us to be in breach under those contracts and cause those contracts to be terminated. We cannot assure you that one or more of these subcontractors will not be delayed in performing, or fail to perform their obligations under these contracts in compliance with applicable legal requirements. Although the government has advised us that funding under our HHS contract has been appropriated for this program outside of the annual appropriations process, government funding is still subject to changing priorities within the government and other political risks, particularly in an election year. As a result, the receipt by us of funds from the United States government to fund our research and development of our IS patch for pandemic flu beyond the $14.5 million already allotted cannot be assured. In addition, we expect that United States and foreign governments would be the entities procuring any pandemic flu products, if approved, and not individual consumers. While there has recently been increased public awareness of the risks of pandemic flu, government health organizations may not devote significant resources to the prevention of an outbreak and may not seek to procure pandemic flu products from us. The acceptance of our product candidate for pandemic flu may depend on whether government health organizations adopt a dose-sparing strategy to prevent pandemic flu and whether a competing technology for dose sparing is adopted. If a dose-sparing strategy is not endorsed or a competing technology for dose sparing is adopted, our product candidate will not yield any revenues. The development and clinical testing of our IS patch for pandemic flu product candidate will likely take several years. Even if our IS patch for pandemic flu obtains regulatory approval, by that time the threat of a pandemic flu outbreak may be reduced or government health organizations may have adequate stockpiles of flu vaccine or have adopted other technologies or strategies to prevent or limit outbreaks. Even if our IS patch for pandemic flu gains regulatory approval and governmental health organizations choose to stockpile the product, we may be not be able to produce enough of the product to fulfill public health and safety needs. U.S. government agencies have special contracting requirements, which create additional risks. We have entered into a contract with HHS, which is a U.S. government agency. Currently, HHS has allocated $14.5 million through the first 15 months of the contract for us to assess the safety and adjuvant effect of the IS patch in an initial clinical trial and to develop plans on how we would produce 150 million IS patches in a six-month period, as required under the contract. In contracting with government agencies, we are subject to various U.S. government agency contract requirements. Future revenues from HHS and other U.S. government agencies will depend, in part, on our ability to meet U.S. government agency contract requirements, certain of which we may not be able to satisfy. U.S. government contracts typically contain unfavorable termination provisions allowing the U.S. government to terminate the contract at any time and are subject to audit and modification by the government at its sole discretion, which subjects us to additional risks. These risks include the ability of the U.S. government to unilaterally: • suspend or prevent us for a set period of time from receiving new contracts or extending existing contracts based on violations or suspected violations of laws or regulations; 26 • terminate our existing contracts; • reduce the scope and value of our existing contracts; • audit and object to our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs; • control and potentially prohibit the export of our products; and • change certain terms and conditions in our contracts. The U.S. government may terminate any of its contracts with us either for its convenience or if we default by failing to perform in accordance with the contract schedule and terms. Termination for convenience provisions generally enable us to recover only our costs incurred or committed and profit on the work completed prior to termination, and settlement expenses incurred in the termination for convenience process. Termination for default provisions do not permit these recoveries and may make us liable for excess costs incurred by the U.S. government in procuring undelivered items from another source. As a U.S. government contractor, we are required to comply with applicable laws, regulations and standards relating to our accounting practices and are subject to periodic audits and reviews. As part of any such audit or review, the U.S. government may review the adequacy of, and our compliance with, our internal control systems and policies, including those relating to our purchasing, property, estimating, compensation and management information systems. Based on the results of its audits, the U.S. government may adjust our contract-related costs and fees, including allocated indirect costs. If our costs are challenged, reimbursement may fail to cover the expenses we incur discharging our role under the contract. In addition, if an audit or review uncovers any improper or illegal activity, we may be subject to civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of our contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. We could also suffer serious harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety were made against us. Although adjustments arising from government audits and reviews have not seriously harmed our business in the past, future audits and reviews could cause adverse effects. In addition, under U.S. government purchasing regulations, some of our costs, including most financing costs, amortization of intangible assets, portions of our research and development costs, and some marketing expenses, may not be reimbursable or allowed under our contracts. Further, as a U.S. government contractor, we are subject to an increased risk of investigations, criminal prosecution, civil fraud, whistleblower lawsuits and other legal actions and liabilities to which purely private sector companies are not. Our technology is unproven and presents challenges for our product development efforts. Our TCI technology represents a novel approach to stimulating the body’s immune system. There is no precedent for the successful commercialization of product candidates based on our technology. Developing biopharmaceuticals based on new technologies presents inherent risks of failure, including: • research could demonstrate that the scientific basis of our technology is incorrect or less sound than we had believed; • unexpected research results could reveal side effects or other unsatisfactory conditions that either will add cost to development of our product candidates or jeopardize our ability to complete the necessary clinical trials; and • time and effort required to solve technical problems could sufficiently delay the development of product candidates such that any competitive advantage that we may enjoy is lost. All of our product candidates currently in development rely on LT, a naturally occurring bacterial toxin, as an adjuvant. LT has been shown to cause undesirable side effects when delivered through conventional mechanisms such as injection, intranasal and oral delivery methods. LT cannot be administered orally as an adjuvant and was linked to an increase in the risk of Bell’s palsy, a temporary paralysis of the facial muscles, when used in a nasal flu vaccine that was on the market in Europe during the 2000/2001 flu season. If we find that LT is not safe when administered to subjects to the skin using our TCI technology, we will not be able to use LT as an adjuvant in our products. This would have a material adverse effect on our product development efforts. Successful commercialization of our TCI technology will require integration of multiple dynamic and evolving components, such as antigens, adjuvants and a delivery mechanism, into finished product candidates. This complexity will likely increase the number of technical problems that we can expect to confront in the clinical and product development processes and, therefore, add to the cost and time required to commercialize each product candidate. 27 We rely on third parties to conduct our clinical trials, and those third-parties may not perform satisfactorily, including failing to meet established deadlines for the completion of such trials. We do not have the ability to independently conduct clinical trials for our vaccine candidates, and we rely on third parties such as contract research organizations, medical institutions and clinical investigators to enroll qualified subjects and conduct our clinical trials. Our reliance on these third parties for clinical development activities reduces our control over these activities. Furthermore, these third parties may also have relationships with other entities, some of which may be our competitors. If these third parties do not successfully carry out their contractual duties or meet expected deadlines, our efforts to obtain regulatory approvals for and commercialize our vaccine candidates may be delayed or prevented. We rely on third parties to provide us with materials necessary to manufacture our product candidates that may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, which may delay the development, regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We purchase from third-party suppliers the materials necessary to produce the bulk LT and final patches for our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine and IS patches for our clinical trials. Suppliers may not sell these materials to us at the times we need them or on commercially reasonable terms. Moreover, we currently do not have any agreements for the commercial production of these materials. If we are unable to obtain these materials for our clinical trials, then product testing and potential regulatory approval of our product candidates could be delayed, significantly affecting our ability to develop our product candidates. If we are unable to purchase these materials after regulatory approval has been obtained for our product candidates for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions, adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, or labor shortages or disputes, the commercial launch of our product candidates would be delayed or there would be a shortage in supply, which would materially affect our ability to generate revenues from the sale of our product candidates. In some cases, we expect these materials to be specifically cited in our future marketing applications with regulatory authorities, so that they must be obtained from that specific source unless and until the applicable authority approved another supplier. In addition, there may only be one available source for a particular component or chemical. Our suppliers also may be subject to FDA regulations or the regulations of other governmental agencies outside the United States regarding manufacturing practices. As such, their facilities could be subject to ongoing inspections, and minor changes in manufacturing processes for these materials may require additional regulatory approvals, either of which could cause delay or a shortage in supply. We may be unable to manufacture our products in a timely manner or at all if these third party suppliers were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials to us, either of which could cause us to incur significant additional costs and lose revenue. We rely on a limited number of manufacturers for our skin preparation systems, and our business will be seriously harmed if these manufacturers are not able to satisfy our demand and alternative sources are not available. We do not have an in-house manufacturing capability for our skin preparation systems (SPS) and depend completely on a small number of third-parties for the manufacture of our SPS. We do not have long-term agreements with any of these third parties, and if they are unable or unwilling to perform for any reason, we may not be able to locate alternative acceptable manufacturers or enter into favorable agreements with them. Any inability to acquire sufficient quantities of our SPS in a timely manner from these third parties could delay clinical trials and prevent us from developing our product candidates in a cost-effective manner or on a timely basis. In addition, manufacturers of our SPS are subject to cGMP and similar foreign standards and we do not have control over compliance with these regulations by our manufacturers. If one of our contract manufacturers fails to maintain compliance, the production of our product candidates could be interrupted, resulting in delays and additional costs. In addition, if the facilities of such manufacturers do not pass a pre-approval plant inspection, the FDA will not grant pre-market approval of our products. 28 The skin preparation systems used in connection with our product candidates may make our products less attractive to consumers. We have observed in our product development efforts that the delivery of antigens and adjuvants to Langerhans cells through the skin is significantly improved by prepping the skin to disrupt the outer dead layer of skin, known as the stratum corneum. Based on animal studies, we believe that the method and level of skin preparation may differ from one product candidate to another because of the different physical properties of the active ingredients. Therefore, more than one skin preparation system (SPS) may be required for our different products to be effective. In recent clinical studies for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea and flu vaccine patches, we have tested simple abrasive materials to disrupt the stratum corneum and are now working to design and test improved embodiments of these materials for use in our future clinical trials of our product candidates. We believe our SPS will be simple to perform and will not involve discomfort to the subject. However, to the degree that our SPS is not perceived to be simple to perform or involve discomfort to the consumer, it could reduce the attractiveness of our products since alternative vaccines or treatments are available for many of the indications that our product candidates under development seek to address. As part of our product development efforts, we may make significant changes to our product candidates. These changes may not yield the benefits that we expect. We have made changes in the design or application of our product candidates in response to preclinical and clinical trial results and technological changes, and we may make additional changes in the future before we are able to commercialize our products. These and other changes to our product candidates may not yield the benefits that we expect and may result in complications and additional expenses that delay the development of our product candidates. In addition, changes to our product candidates may not be covered by our existing patents and patent applications, and may not qualify for patent protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to commercialize our product candidates. See the risk factor entitled “If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business profitably.” We may be required to conduct clinical trials of our IS patch with flu vaccines developed by different manufacturers, which may lead to added cost and delay in approval and commercialization of our IS patch. Approval by the FDA of our IS patch with flu vaccines will be based on clinical data with the relevant commercial flu vaccines. In order for our IS patch to gain approval from the FDA for use with multiple commercially available injectable flu vaccines, we may need to conduct multiple clinical trials of our IS patch with multiple flu vaccines developed by different manufacturers. This may substantially expand the cost and time required for the clinical trials of our IS patch, which could delay its potential approval by the FDA and its commercialization. None of our product candidates has been approved for commercial sale, and we may never receive such approval. All of our product candidates are in early pre-commercial stages, and we do not expect our product candidates to be commercially available for several years, if at all. We expect that each of our product candidates, consisting of a patch and one or more active ingredients, will be treated together as a separate investigational product by the FDA, even if any active ingredient is part of an existing approved product. None of the active ingredients in our product candidates have been approved by the FDA for commercial sale in any product. Our product candidates are subject to stringent regulation by regulatory authorities in the United States and in other countries. We cannot market any product candidate until we have completed our clinical trials and have obtained the necessary regulatory approvals for that product candidate. We do not know whether regulatory authorities will grant approval for any of our product candidates. Conducting clinical trials and obtaining regulatory approvals are uncertain, time consuming and expensive processes. Our product candidates must complete rigorous preclinical testing and clinical trials. It will take us many years to complete our testing, and failure could occur at any stage of testing. For example, in May 2007, we announced that the interim results from a Phase 1 clinical trial comparing our needle-free flu vaccine patch to an injected intramuscular vaccine. While the trial showed that a needle-free flu vaccine patch stimulated an immune response to each of the three antigens in a dose-dependent manner, the results showed that the injected vaccine prompted a greater immune response compared with our patch vaccine. In addition, results of early trials frequently do not predict results of later trials, and acceptable results in early trials may not be repeated. Even if we complete preclinical and clinical trials successfully, we may not be able to obtain regulatory approvals. Data obtained from preclinical and clinical studies are subject to varying interpretations that could delay, limit or prevent regulatory approval, and failure to observe regulatory requirements or inadequate manufacturing processes are examples of other problems that could prevent approval. In addition, we may encounter delays or rejections due to additional government regulation from future legislation, administrative action or changes in FDA policy. 29 We intend to meet with the FDA and European regulatory authorities during 2008 to review our plans for the Phase 3 trial for our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine to seek regulatory approval in both the United States and European Union. At this time, we are evaluating various possible primary endpoints. We can give no assurances, however, that the FDA, EMEA, or any other regulatory body will not require a different primary endpoint or additional efficacy endpoints for registration. Moreover, given that we currently plan to follow only travelers to Guatemala and Mexico in the efficacy trial, the FDA, EMEA and other regulatory authorities may not allow us to claim prevention of travelers’ diarrhea on a global basis without additional sites in other endemic areas. If the FDA or EMEA requires different or any additional efficacy endpoints, it could limit the indications for which our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine might be approved, and an approval for a limited indication could negatively our ability to market and sell this product candidate. While we believe that our travelers’ diarrhea vaccine may be amenable to self-administration based on recent clinical results, the FDA or other regulatory authorities may not concur with our analysis. Whether any approved product would be self-administered would depend on many factors, including the outcome of any future studies evaluating self-administration and the views of regulatory agencies. In addition, if, after regulatory approval, we would desire to expand the indication or apply for a different indication, we will be required to file a supplementary application, along with the necessary clinical data to support any new label claims. In this case, we may incur significant additional development costs, and we may not be able to obtain regulatory approval or commercialize this product for the new indication in an acceptable timeframe. Outside the United States, our ability to market any of our potential products is contingent upon receiving marketing authorizations from the appropriate regulatory authorities. These foreign regulatory approval processes include all of the risks associated with the FDA approval process described above. If our research and testing is not successful, or if we cannot show that our product candidates are safe and effective, we will be unable to commercialize our product candidates, and our business may fail. Federal regulatory reforms may create additional burdens that would cause us to incur additional costs and may adversely affect our ability to commercialize our products. From time to time, legislation is drafted, introduced and passed in Congress that could significantly change the statutory provisions governing the approval, manufacturing and marketing of products regulated by the FDA. For example, on September 27, 2007, the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007 (FDAAA) was enacted, giving the FDA enhanced post-market authority, including the authority to require post-market studies and clinical trials, labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with risk evaluation and mitigation strategies approved by the FDA. The FDA’s post-market authority takes effect 180 days after the enactment of the law. Failure to comply with any requirements under the FDAAA may result in significant penalties. The FDAAA also authorizes significant civil money penalties for the dissemination of false or misleading direct-to-consumer advertisements and allows the FDA to require companies to submit direct-to-consumer television drug advertisements for FDA review prior to public dissemination. Additionally, the new law expands the clinical trial registry so that sponsors of all clinical trials, except for Phase 1 trials, are required to submit certain clinical trial information for inclusion in the clinical trial registry data bank. The FDA’s exercise of its new authority could result in delays or increased costs during the period of product development, clinical trials and regulatory review and approval, increased costs to assure compliance with new post-approval regulatory requirements, and potential restrictions on the sale of approved products. In addition to the FDAAA, FDA regulations and guidance are often revised or reinterpreted by the agency in ways that may significantly affect our business and our products. It is impossible to predict whether further legislative changes will be enacted, or FDA regulations, guidance or interpretations will change, and what the impact of such changes, if any, may be. 30 If physicians and patients do not accept our products, we may be unable to generate significant revenue. Even if any of our vaccine candidates obtain regulatory approval, they still may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients and the medical community, which would limit our ability to generate revenue and would adversely affect our results of operations. Physicians will not recommend products developed by us or our collaborators until clinical data or other factors demonstrate the safety and efficacy of our products as compared to other available treatments. Even if the clinical safety and efficacy of our products is established, physicians may elect not to recommend these products for a variety of factors, including the reimbursement policies of government and third-party payors. There are other established treatment options for the diseases that many of our product candidates target, such as travelers’ diarrhea and the flu. In order to successfully launch a product based on our TCI technology, we must educate physicians and patients about the relative benefits of our products. If our products are not perceived as easy and convenient to use, for example as compared to an injectable vaccine or antibiotics, or are perceived to present a greater risk of side effects or are not perceived to be as effective as other available treatments, physicians and patients might not adopt our products. A failure of our technology to gain commercial acceptance would have a material adverse effect on our business. We expect that, if approved for commercialization, our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine patch will be paid for by patients out of pocket. We originally designed our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine patch to protect against only those cases of travelers’ diarrhea caused by enterotoxigenic E. coli bacteria, or ETEC, and in which the LT toxin is present. We estimate this to be approximately one-third of all cases of travelers’ diarrhea. If we do not demonstrate protection against other forms of travelers’ diarrhea, this could limit commercial acceptance of this product. Because our needle-free flu vaccine patch and IS patch candidates are targeted at preventing or ameliorating the effects of flu infection, if the launch of these products for a particular flu season fails, we may not receive significant revenues from either product until the next season, if at all. See the risk factors set forth below entitled “Our competitors may have superior products, manufacturing capability or marketing expertise,” “Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products,” and “We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and will depend on the sales and marketing efforts of third parties.” Our license to use TCI technology from The Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, or WRAIR, is critical to our success. Under some circumstances, WRAIR may modify or terminate our license or sublicense the TCI technology to third parties which could adversely affect our business. We license substantially all of our patented and patentable TCI technology through an exclusive license from WRAIR, a federal government entity. This license will terminate automatically on the expiration date of the last to expire patent subject to the license, which, based on currently issued patents and our assumption that such patents will not be invalidated, would be February 2019. WRAIR may unilaterally modify or terminate the license if we, among other things: • do not expend reasonable efforts and resources to carry out the development and marketing of the licensed TCI technology and do not manufacture, use, or operate products that use the TCI technology by December 31, 2011 (subject to extension based upon a showing of reasonable diligence in developing the technology); • do not continue to make our TCI-based products available to the public on commercially reasonable terms after we have developed such products; • misuse the licensed TCI technology or permit any of our affiliates or sub-licensees to do so; • fail to pay royalties or meet our other payment or reporting obligations under the license; • become bankrupt; or • otherwise materially breach our obligations under the license. If we violate the terms of the WRAIR license, or otherwise lose our licensed rights to the TCI technology, we would likely be unable to continue to develop our products. WRAIR and third parties may dispute the scope of our rights to the TCI technology under the license. Additionally, WRAIR may breach the terms of its obligations under the license or fail to prevent infringement or fail to assist us to prevent infringement by third parties of the patents underlying the licensed TCI technology. Loss or impairment of the WRAIR license for any reason could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. 31 In addition to WRAIR’s termination and modification rights described above, our license is subject to a non-exclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free right of the United States government to practice the licensed TCI technology for research and other governmental purposes on behalf of the United States and on behalf of any foreign government or international organization pursuant to any existing or future treaty or agreement with the United States. WRAIR also reserves the right to require us to grant sublicenses to third parties if WRAIR determines that: • such sublicenses are necessary to fulfill public health and safety needs that we are not reasonably addressing; • such sublicenses are necessary to meet requirements for public use specified by applicable United States government regulations with which we are not reasonably in compliance; or • we are not manufacturing our products substantially in the United States. Although we are currently the only parties licensed to actively develop the TCI technology, we cannot assure you that WRAIR will not in the future require us to sublicense the TCI technology. Any action by WRAIR to force us to issue such sublicenses or development activities instituted by the United States government pursuant to its reserved rights in the TCI technology would erode our ability to exclusively develop products based on the TCI technology and could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. Licenses of technology owned by agencies of the United States government, including the WRAIR license, require that licensees—in this case, us—and our affiliates and sub-licensees agree that products covered by the license will be manufactured substantially in the United States. This may restrict our ability to contract for manufacturing facilities, if we attempt to do so, outside the United States and we may risk losing our rights under the WRAIR license, which could materially harm our financial condition and operating results. If we are unable to protect our intellectual property, we may not be able to operate our business profitably. We base our TCI technology in large part on innovations for which WRAIR has sought protection under the United States and certain foreign patent laws. We consider patent protection of our TCI technology to be critical to our business prospects. As of February 21, 2008, there are four issued and one allowed United States patents, 42 issued foreign patents and 43 United States and foreign patent applications relating to TCI and improvements on the technology. The four issued United States patents will expire between November 2016 and February 2019. The 42 issued foreign patents will expire between November 2016 and February 2019. Under our license agreement with WRAIR, we bear financial responsibility for the preparation, filing, prosecution and maintenance of any and all patents and patent applications licensed. With respect to enforcement, we have the right to bring actions to enforce patents licensed under the WRAIR license agreement, subject to WRAIR’s continuing right to intervene, and WRAIR maintains the right to bring enforcement actions if we fail to do so. Our contract with HHS includes certain patent and data rights provisions governing our rights and those of the U.S. government in respect of patentable processes and inventions and works subject to copyright, including software, that we may develop under the contract and that are paid for by HHS. While we do not believe that our performance under the HHS contract will result in patentable processes or inventions, or works subject to copyright, including software, that we would need to market our IS patch technology in the future, our performance under the HHS contract subjects us to the risk that the U.S. government may claim rights or interests in such patentable processes or inventions or works subject to copyright. Patent protection in the field of biopharmaceuticals is highly uncertain and involves complex legal and scientific questions and has recently been the subject of much litigation. We cannot control when or if any patent applications will result in issued patents. Even if issued, our patents may not afford us protection against competitors marketing similar products. Neither the US Patent and Trademark Office nor the courts have a consistent policy regarding the breadth of claims allowed or the degree of protection afforded under many biopharmaceutical patents. 32 The claims of our existing US patents and those that may issue in the future, or those licensed to us, may not offer significant protection of our TCI technology and other technologies. Our patents on transcutaneous immunization, in particular, are broad in that they cover the delivery of antigens and adjuvants to the skin to induce an immune response. While our TCI technology is covered by issued patents and we are not aware of any challenges, patents with broad claims tend to be more vulnerable to challenge by other parties than patents with more narrowly written claims. Patent applications in the United States and many foreign jurisdictions are typically not published until 18 months following their priority filing date, and in some cases not at all. In addition, publication of discoveries in scientific literature often lags significantly behind actual discoveries. Therefore, neither we nor our licensors can be certain that we or they were the first to make the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications, or that we or they were the first to file for protection of the inventions set forth in these patent applications. In addition, changes in either patent laws or in interpretations of patent laws in the United States and other countries may diminish the value of our intellectual property or narrow the scope of our patent protection. Furthermore, our competitors may independently develop similar technologies or duplicate technology developed by us in a manner that does not infringe our patents or other intellectual property. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, the value of our technology and products could be adversely affected. In addition to patented technology, we rely upon unpatented proprietary technology, processes and know-how. We and our licensors seek to protect this information in part by confidentiality agreements with employees, consultants and third parties. These agreements may be breached, and there may not be adequate remedies for any such breach. In addition, our trade secrets may otherwise become known or be independently developed by competitors. If we are unable to protect the confidentiality of our proprietary information and know-how, competitors may be able to use this information to develop products that compete with our products, which could adversely impact our business. If the use of our technology conflicts with the intellectual property rights of third parties, we may incur substantial liabilities, and we may be unable to commercialize products based on this technology in a profitable manner, if at all. Our competitors or others may have or acquire patent rights that they could enforce against us. In addition, we may be subject to claims from others that we are misappropriating their trade secrets or confidential proprietary information. If our technology conflicts with the intellectual property rights of others, they could bring legal action against us or our licensors, licensees, suppliers, customers or collaborators. If a third party claims that we infringe upon its proprietary rights, any of the following may occur: • we may become involved in time-consuming and expensive litigation, even if the claim is without merit; • we may become liable for substantial damages for past infringement if a court decides that our technology infringes upon a competitor’s patent; • a court may prohibit us from selling or licensing our product without a license from the patent holder, which may not be available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all, or which may require us to pay substantial royalties or grant cross licenses to our patents; and • we may have to redesign our product so that it does not infringe upon others’ patent rights, which may not be possible or could be very expensive and time-consuming. If any of these events occurs, our business will suffer and the market price of our common stock will likely decline. We may be involved in lawsuits to protect or enforce our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors, which could be expensive and time consuming. Competitors may infringe our patents or the patents of our collaborators or licensors. To counter infringement or unauthorized use, we may be required to file infringement claims, which can be expensive and time-consuming. In addition, in an infringement proceeding, a court may decide that a patent of ours is not valid or is unenforceable, or may refuse to stop the other party from using the technology at issue on the grounds that our patents do not cover the technology in question. An adverse result in any litigation or proceeding could put one or more of our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly and could put our patent applications at risk of not issuing. 33 Interference proceedings brought by the US Patent and Trademark Office may be necessary to determine the priority of inventions with respect to our patent applications or those of our collaborators or licensors. Litigation or interference proceedings may fail and, even if successful, may result in substantial costs and be a distraction to our management. We may not be able, alone or with our collaborators and licensors, to prevent misappropriation of our proprietary rights, particularly in countries where the laws may not protect such rights as fully as in the United States. Furthermore, because of the substantial amount of discovery required in connection with intellectual property litigation, there is a risk that some of our confidential information could be compromised by disclosure during this type of litigation. In addition, there could be public announcements of the results of hearings, motions or other interim proceedings or developments. If securities analysts or investors perceive these results to be negative, it could have a substantial adverse effect on the price of our common stock. We depend on our key personnel, the loss of whom may adversely affect our operations. If we fail to attract and retain the talent required for our business, our business will be materially harmed. We are a small company with 112 full-time employees as of December 31, 2007, and we depend to a great extent on principal members of our management and scientific staff. If we lose the services of any key personnel, in particular, Stanley Erck, our President and Chief Executive Officer, or Gregory Glenn, our Chief Scientific Officer, it could significantly impede the achievement of our research and development objectives and could delay our product development programs and approval and commercialization of our product candidates. We do not currently have any key man life insurance policies. While we have entered into agreements with certain of our executive officers relating to severance after a change of control and these officers have agreed to restrictive covenants relating to non-competition and non-solicitation, we have not entered into employment agreements with members of our senior management team other than Stanley Erck. Our agreement with Stanley Erck does not ensure that we will retain his services for any period of time in the future. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and managerial personnel and research partners. Competition among biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies for qualified employees is intense, and we may not be able to retain existing personnel or attract and retain qualified staff in the future. If we fail to hire and retain personnel in key positions, we will be unable to develop or commercialize our product candidates in a timely manner. Our competitors may have superior products, manufacturing capability or marketing expertise. Our business may fail because it faces intense competition from major pharmaceutical companies, specialized biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and drug development companies engaged in the development and production of vaccines, vaccine delivery technologies and other biopharmaceutical products. Several companies are pursuing programs that target the same markets we are targeting. In addition to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, our competitors include academic and scientific institutions, government agencies and other public and private research organizations. Many of our competitors have greater financial and human resources and more experience. Our competitors may: • develop products or product candidates earlier than we do; • form collaborations before we do, or preclude us from forming collaborations with others; • obtain approvals from the FDA or other regulatory agencies for such products more rapidly than we do; • develop and validate manufacturing processes more rapidly than we do; • obtain patent protection or other intellectual property rights that would limit our ability to use our technologies or develop our product candidates; • develop products that are safer or more effective than those we develop or propose to develop; or • implement more effective approaches to sales and marketing. Alternative competitive technologies and products could render our TCI technology and our product candidates based on this technology obsolete and non-competitive. Presently, there are a number of companies developing alternative methods to the syringe for delivering vaccines. These alternative methods include microneedles, electroporations, microporations, jet injectors, nasal sprays and oral delivery, and several of these delivery mechanisms are in clinical trials. 34 While there are no vaccines against infection by ETEC that have been approved for sale in the United States, we are aware of several companies with ETEC vaccine product candidates that are in development, which, if approved, would compete against our needle-free travelers’ diarrhea vaccine patch. Those companies with potential ETEC vaccine candidates include ACE BioSciences A/S, Avant Immunotherapeutics, Inc., Cambridge Biostability Ltd., Crucell, N.V., Emergent BioSolutions, Inc., and Intercell AG. One of our competitors, Crucell announced in 2005 results from a study of an ETEC vaccine indicating the vaccine may be effective in preventing diarrhea caused by ETEC. In the absence of vaccines, travelers’ diarrhea is generally treated, either prophylactically or following onset, with antibiotics or over-the-counter, or OTC, products that alleviate symptoms. Some of these OTC products and antibiotics, such as Cipro, are marketed by pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources and enjoy widespread acceptance among physicians and patients. In addition, Salix Pharmaceuticals, Inc. has announced that it has completed a Phase 3 study and initiated another to evaluate the efficacy and safety of an antibiotic specifically designed to be taken prophylactically for the prevention of travelers’ diarrhea, and is targeting filing a marketing application in the first half of 2008. There are multiple influenza vaccines approved for sale in both the United States and Europe. In many cases, these products are manufactured and distributed by pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources, such as Novartis AG, GlaxoSmithKline plc, sanofi-aventis SA, Solvay SA and MedImmune, Inc. FluMist, a nasal flu vaccine, has received marketing approval from the FDA and would compete against our needle-free flu vaccine, if it is approved for marketing. We are also aware of other flu vaccine candidates to be delivered by alternative methods, such as nasal spray and skin delivery, which, if approved, would compete against our needle-free flu vaccine, if it is approved for marketing. In addition, we know of multiple flu vaccine candidates that incorporate adjuvants to enhance immune responses, particularly in the elderly. Some of these adjuvanted flu vaccines are being developed by pharmaceutical companies with substantial resources, such as sanofi-aventis, GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis. These adjuvanted vaccines would compete against our IS patch for the elderly and for pandemic flu applications, if either is approved for marketing. For example, both GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis were awarded “dose-sparing” contracts by HHS totaling $63.3 million and $54.8 million, respectively, in January 2007 to develop pandemic flu vaccines with their proprietary adjuvant systems. Both GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis have reported separately initial data indicating that low doses (3.8 ug and 7.5 ug, respectively) of their respective adjuvanted pandemic flu vaccines have elicited immune responses at levels considered protective by health authorities, as well as strong immune responses against “drifted” strains of pandemic flu that have changed over time. In March 2008, GlaxoSmithKline announced that its H5N1 split antigen pre-pandemic influenza vaccine, which utilizes its proprietary adjuvant along with 3.8 ug of pandemic flu antigen, received a positive opinion from European regulatory authorities on its marketing authorization application. In addition, sanofi-aventis announced in February 2008 that it had filed for European approval of the first seasonal influenza vaccine delivered by a intradermal microinjection system, aimed at providing a superior immune response in the elderly. Our ability to generate revenues will be diminished if we fail to obtain acceptable prices or an adequate level of reimbursement for our products. The continuing efforts of government and third-party payors to contain or reduce the costs of health care through various means may limit our commercial opportunity. For example, in some foreign markets, pricing and profitability of prescription biopharmaceuticals are subject to government control. In the United States, we expect that there will continue to be a number of federal and state proposals to implement similar government controls. In addition, increasing emphasis on managed care in the United States will continue to put pressure on the pricing of biopharmaceutical products. Cost control initiatives could decrease the price that we would receive for any products in the future. Our ability to commercialize biopharmaceutical product candidates, alone or with third parties, could be adversely affected by cost control initiatives and also may depend in part on the extent to which reimbursement for the product candidates will be available from: • government and health administration authorities; • private health insurers; and • other third-party payors. 35 Significant uncertainty exists as to the reimbursement status of newly approved health care products. Third-party payors, including Medicare, are challenging the prices charged for medical products and services. Government and other third-party payors increasingly attempt to contain health care costs by limiting both coverage and the level of reimbursement for new biopharmaceutical products and by refusing, in some cases, to provide coverage for uses of approved products for disease indications for which the FDA has not granted labeling approval. In the United States, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory proposals to change the healthcare system in ways that could affect our ability to market and sell our product candidates profitably. In particular, in December 2003, President Bush signed into law new Medicare prescription drug coverage legislation which went into effect on January 1, 2006. Under this legislation, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, the agency within the Department of Health and Human Services that administers Medicare and is responsible for reimbursement of the cost of drugs, has asserted the authority of Medicare to elect not to cover particular drugs if CMS determines that the drugs are not “reasonable and necessary” for Medicare beneficiaries or to elect to cover a drug at a lower rate similar to that of drugs that CMS considers to be “therapeutically comparable.” Changes in reimbursement policies or health care cost containment initiatives that limit or restrict reimbursement for our products may cause our potential revenues to decline. Third party insurance coverage may not be available to patients for any product candidates we discover and develop, alone or through our strategic relationships. If government and other third-party payors do not provide adequate coverage and reimbursement levels for our product candidates, the market acceptance of these product candidates maybe reduced. We have no experience in sales, marketing and distribution and will depend on the sales and marketing efforts of third parties. We plan to establish marketing arrangements with third parties or major pharmaceutical companies and do not expect to establish direct sales capability for several years. However, these types of marketing arrangements might not be available on commercially acceptable terms, or at all. In the future, to market any of our product candidates directly, we would need to develop a marketing and sales force with technical expertise and distribution capability. To the extent that we enter into marketing or distribution arrangements, any revenues we receive will depend upon the efforts of third parties. We cannot assure you that we will be successful in gaining market acceptance for any products we may develop. Our business exposes us to potential product liability claims. Our proposed products could be the subject of product liability claims. A failure of our product candidates to function as anticipated, whether as a result of the design of these products, unanticipated health consequences or side effects, or misuse or mishandling by third parties of such products, could result in injury. Claims also could be based on failure to immunize as anticipated. Tort claims could be substantial in size and could include punitive damages. We cannot assure you that any warranty disclaimers provided with our proposed products would be successful in protecting us from product liability exposure. Damages from any such claims could be substantial and could affect our financial condition. Our business exposes us to potential product liability risks that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of biopharmaceutical products. We have obtained clinical trial liability insurance for our clinical trials in the aggregate amount of $10 million. We cannot be certain that we will be able to maintain adequate insurance for our clinical trials. We also intend to seek product liability insurance in the future for products approved for marketing, if any. However, we may not be able to acquire or maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost. Any insurance coverage may not be sufficient to satisfy any liability resulting from product liability claims. A successful product liability claim or series of claims could have a material adverse impact on our operations. We deal with hazardous materials that may cause injury to others and are regulated by environmental laws that may impose significant costs and restrictions on our business. Our research and development programs and manufacturing operations involve the controlled use of potentially harmful biological materials such as toxins from E. coli and other hazardous materials. We cannot completely eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury to others from the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of these materials. In the event of contamination or injury, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any liability could exceed our resources or any applicable insurance coverage we may have. We are also subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the use, manufacture, storage, handling or disposal of hazardous materials and waste products. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or with the conditions attached to our operating licenses, then our operating licenses could be revoked, we could be subjected to criminal sanctions and substantial liability and we could be required to suspend, modify or terminate our operations. We may also have to incur significant costs to comply with future environmental laws and regulations. We do not currently have a pollution and remediation insurance policy. 36 Until 2006, we operated as a private company and as a result, we have limited experience attempting to comply with public company obligations. Attempting to comply with these requirements will increase our costs and require additional management resources, and we still may fail to comply. In February 2006, we closed our initial public offering. Previously, as a private company, we maintained a small finance and accounting staff. While we expect to continue to expand our staff, we may encounter substantial difficulty attracting qualified staff with requisite experience due to the high level of competition for experienced financial professionals. We face increased legal, accounting, administrative and other costs and expenses as a public company that we did not incur as a private company. Efforts to comply with the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, as well as other rules of the SEC, the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and The Nasdaq Stock Market have significant initial and ongoing legal, audit and financial compliance costs. As a public company, we are subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act relating to internal control over financial reporting and we may fail to comply for the reasons outlined in the next risk factor. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately report our financial results or prevent fraud. As a result, stockholders could lose confidence in our financial and other public reporting, which would harm our business and the trading price of our common stock. Effective internal controls over financial reporting are necessary for us to provide reliable financial reports and, together with adequate disclosure controls and procedures, are designed to prevent fraud. If we cannot continue to provide reliable financial reports or prevent fraud, our operating results could be harmed. Also, to account for our continued growth, as well the additional reporting obligations under the HHS contract, we have installed a new financial system, which went live on January 1, 2007. Our experience with this new system is limited and could impact our ability in the future to provide timely financial reports. Management has assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls. As a result of these inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. Therefore, even those internal controls determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Given the status of our efforts, coupled with the fact that guidance from regulatory authorities in the area of internal controls continues to evolve, uncertainty exists regarding our ability to comply by applicable deadlines. Any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or difficulties encountered in their implementation, could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our common stock. Investment Risks We expect that our stock price will fluctuate significantly, which may adversely affect holders of our stock and our ability to raise capital. The stock market, particularly in recent years, has experienced significant volatility particularly with respect to pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks. The volatility of pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology stocks often does not relate to the operating performance of the companies represented by the shares. Factors that could cause volatility in the market price of our common stock include: • the timing and the results from our clinical trial programs; • developments concerning current or future strategic alliances; • FDA or international regulatory actions; • failure of any of our product candidates, if approved, to achieve commercial success; • announcements of clinical trial results or new product introductions by our competitors; • market conditions in the pharmaceutical, biopharmaceutical and biotechnology sectors; • developments concerning intellectual property rights; 37 • litigation or public concern about the safety of our potential products; • actual and anticipated fluctuations in our quarterly operating results; • announcements regarding transactions with third parties; • deviations in our operating results from the estimates of securities analysts; • additions or departures of key personnel; and • third-party reimbursement policies. These and other factors may cause the market price and demand for our common stock to fluctuate substantially. In certain situations, such fluctuations may limit or prevent investors from readily selling their shares of common stock and may otherwise negatively affect the liquidity of our common stock and our ability to raise capital. If the price and volume of our common stock experience extreme fluctuations, then we could face costly litigation. In the past, companies that experience volatility in the market price of their securities have often faced securities class action litigation. Whether or not meritorious, if any of our stockholders brought a lawsuit against us, we could incur substantial costs defending the lawsuit. Such a lawsuit could also divert the time and attention of our management and harm our ability to grow our business. Our directors and management exercise significant control over our company. Our directors and executive officers and their affiliates collectively control approximately 31% of our outstanding common stock. These stockholders, if they act together, may be able to influence our management and affairs and all matters requiring stockholder approval, including the election of directors and approval of significant corporate transactions. The concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company and might affect the market price of our common stock. We may not achieve our projected development goals in the time frames we announce and expect. We set goals for and make public statements regarding timing of the accomplishment of objectives material to our success, such as the commencement and completion of clinical trials. The actual timing of these events can vary dramatically due to factors such as delays or failures in our clinical trials, the uncertainties inherent in the regulatory approval process, transactions with third parties and delays in achieving manufacturing or marketing arrangements sufficient to commercialize our products. We can provide no assurance that our clinical trials will be completed, that we will make regulatory submissions or receive regulatory approvals as planned, that we will enter into collaborations, or that we will be able to adhere to our current schedule for the launch of any of our products. If we fail to achieve one or more of these milestones as planned, the market price of our shares could decline. Provisions of Delaware law or our charter documents could delay or prevent an acquisition of our company, even if the acquisition would be beneficial to our stockholders, and could make it more difficult for you to change management. Provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. This is because these provisions may prevent or frustrate attempts by stockholders to replace or remove our current management or members of our board of directors. These provisions include: • a staggered board of directors; • a prohibition on stockholder action through written consent; • a requirement that special meetings of stockholders be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer, or the board of directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of authorized directors; • advance notice requirements for stockholder proposals and nominations; and 38 • the authority of the board of directors to issue preferred stock with such terms as it may determine. As a result, these provisions and others available under Delaware law could limit the price that investors are willing to pay for shares of our common stock. Because we do not expect to pay dividends in the foreseeable future, you must rely on stock appreciation for any return on your investment. We have paid no cash dividends on any of our capital stock to date, and we currently intend to retain our future earnings, if any, to fund the development and growth of our business. As a result, we do not expect to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future, and payment of cash dividends, if any, will also depend on our financial condition, results of operations, capital requirements and other factors and will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Furthermore, we may in the future become subject to contractual restrictions on, or prohibitions against, the payment of dividends. Accordingly, the success of your investment in our common stock will likely depend entirely upon any future appreciation. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments Not applicable. 