ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS RISK FACTORS As previously mentioned in our Note Relating to Forward-Looking Statements, there are numerous risks and uncertainties associated with our business and the ownership of our stock. Set forth below are the risks that are known to us as of the date of this report that could affect our business and results of operations. State legislation or rulemaking has changed recently and in the future could change the regulatory oversight, including the permitting process, for landfills, which could negatively impact our operations. The operation of landfills is governed by the laws of the state in which the landfill is or is proposed to be located. Any new landfill must apply for and receive a permit to allow its opening and operation. This regulatory oversight, including the permitting process, is subject to change at both the agency and the legislative levels in each state. Any changes to the permitting process and regulatory oversight of landfills in a state in which we operate or intend to operate could negatively affect our operations. In July 2006, the North Carolina legislature enacted a one-year moratorium on permits for new landfills. The moratorium ran from August 1, 2006 to August 1, 2007 and was applicable to the landfill that we are developing in Camden County, North Carolina. The legislation that imposed the moratorium also required the Environmental Review Commission, with the assistance of the Division of Waste Management of the Department of Environmental and Natural Resources, to study ways to reduce the amount of solid waste disposed of in North Carolina landfills and to study measures concerning, among other things, financial responsibility requirements, franchise and local government requirements, and siting, design and operational requirements for solid waste landfills in the state. As a result of those studies, on August 2, 2007, the North Carolina legislature approved legislation that, among other things, imposes stringent limitations on landfill siting. Specifically, no landfill may be approved that: • Is within five miles of a national wildlife refuge, two miles of a state park or one mile of a state gameland; • Is closer than 200 feet to a stream, as opposed to the prior 50 foot requirement; • Will have a capacity in excess of 55 million cubic yards of waste; • Will have a disposal area greater than 350 acres; or • Will have a height, including cap and cover vegetation, that is 250 feet above the mean natural elevation of the proposed site. The legislation imposes an excise tax, effective July 1, 2008, of $2.00 per ton on any solid waste disposed of in North Carolina or transferred out of North Carolina. Part of the proceeds of this tax may be used to reimburse applicants whose landfill applications were pending on the date of and impacted by the new legislation for the cost of the preparation of their permit applications incurred through August 2006. The Black Bear landfill we are developing in Camden County, North Carolina is approximately 3,500 feet from a national wildlife refuge. We have filed a lawsuit challenging application of the legislation to the Black Bear project on the grounds that applying the legislation to the Black Bear project violates the contract, interstate commerce, equal protection and due process clauses of the United State constitution, the corresponding clauses of the North Carolina constitution and our common law vested rights. We also are reviewing all other options and remedies available to us to either continue developing the Black Bear landfill or recover our investment in the project. If, as a result of the legislation, the landfill cannot be constructed as planned, we would have to charge off that portion of the project’s book value that exceeded its fair value. Fair value would include any reimbursement that we expect to receive from the state. At December 31, 2007, the book value of the project was approximately $14.0 million, including approximately $9.1 million in land purchase costs. While any such impairment charge would not have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, it could have a material adverse impact on our earnings for the period in which the charge is taken. 17 Table of Contents The new legislation will make the landfill permitting process and the construction and operation of landfills in North Carolina more difficult, lengthy and expensive, and, we believe, will reduce the number and size of landfills that can be built and operated in the state. New statutes or rules could be adopted in the future that are even more onerous than the new legislation. Other states in which we operate could adopt similar moratoriums or change their current landfill regulatory oversight or permitting processes. Any moratorium or statutory or rule change that increases the time and cost to develop and operate landfills could negatively affect our operations. In addition, the new North Carolina legislation, and any similar legislation in another state, if adopted, could have a negative impact on our business strategy as well as our operations due to possible reductions in operating margin and charges to earnings of capitalized expenditures for the development of landfills. Increases in the cost of fuel for any extended period of time would increase our operating expenses, which could negatively affect our earnings. The price and supply of fuel are unpredictable, and can fluctuate significantly based on international political and economic circumstances, as well as other events outside our control, such as actions by OPEC and other oil and gas producers, regional production patterns and environmental concerns. The price of fuel has increased significantly since 2006, which has increased our cost of operations significantly. We need fuel to run our collection and transfer trucks and equipment used in our landfill operations, and price escalations or reductions in the supply will likely increase our operating expenses and have a negative impact on income from operations and cash flows. We have in place a fuel surcharge program, designed to offset increased fuel expenses; however, we are not able to pass through all of the increased costs and some customers’ contracts prohibit any pass through of the increased costs. Additionally, as fuel prices increase, many of our vendors raise their prices as a means to offset their own rising costs. The waste industry is highly competitive and if we fail to compete successfully our financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We encounter intense competition from governmental, quasi-governmental and private sources in all aspects of our operations. The waste industry currently consists of large national waste management companies, and local and regional companies of varying sizes and financial resources. We compete with these companies as well as with counties and municipalities that maintain their own waste collection and disposal operations. These counties and municipalities may have financial competitive advantages because tax revenues and tax-exempt financing are available to them. Also, such governmental units may attempt to impose flow control or other restrictions that would give them a competitive advantage. In addition, competitors may reduce their prices to expand sales volume or to win competitively bid contracts. When this happens, we may rollback prices or offer lower pricing to attract or retain our customers, resulting in a negative impact to our yield on base business. Economic conditions have had and in the future may have an adverse impact on our operating performance and results of operations. Weaknesses in the overall U.S. economy or Southeast, where we conduct business, had a negative effect on our operating results, including decreases in revenues and operating cash flows and may continue to do so in the future due to decreases in economic activity, during which businesses tend to produce less waste. Additionally, in a down-cycle economic environment, we may experience the negative effects of increased competitive pricing pressure and customer turnover. If economic conditions deteriorate, we will experience pressure on the pricing that we are able to achieve for our services. In addition, worsening economic conditions may lead to further negative effects of customer turnover. There can be no assurance that current economic conditions or worsening economic conditions or a prolonged or recurring recession will not have a significant adverse impact on our operating results. Additionally, there can be no assurance that an improvement in economic conditions will result in an immediate, if at all, positive improvement in our operating results. We may not be able to continue our strategy of growth through acquisitions, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our growth strategy includes expanding through acquisitions, acquiring additional exclusive arrangements and generating 18 Table of Contents internal growth. Most of our growth has been through acquisitions. Although we have identified numerous acquisition candidates that we believe are suitable, we may not be able to acquire them at prices or on terms and conditions favorable to us. Our ability to grow also depends on several other factors, including: • the availability of capital to support our growth; • our ability to compete with existing and emerging companies; • our ability to maintain profit margins in the face of competitive pressures; • our ability to continue to recruit, train and retain qualified employees; and • continued strong demand for our services. Difficulties in any of these areas could hinder our growth and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to costly environmental regulations and environmental litigation that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our equipment, facilities, and operations are subject to extensive and changing federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and occupational health and safety. These include, among other things, laws and regulations governing the use, treatment, storage, and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and materials, air quality, water quality and the remediation of contamination associated with the release of hazardous substances. Our compliance with these regulatory requirements is costly. Government laws and regulations often require us to enhance or replace our equipment and to modify landfill operations or initiate final closure of a landfill. We cannot assure you that we will be able to implement price increases sufficient to offset the cost of complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, environmental regulatory changes could accelerate or increase expenditures for closure and post-closure monitoring at solid waste facilities and obligate us to spend sums in addition to those presently accrued for such purposes. In addition to the costs of complying with environmental regulations, we incur costs to defend against litigation brought by government agencies and private parties who allege we are in violation of our permits and applicable environmental laws and regulations. As a result, we may be required to pay fines, implement corrective measures or may have our permits and licenses modified or revoked. We are, and also may be in the future, defendants in lawsuits brought by governmental agencies and surrounding landowners who assert claims alleging environmental damage, personal injury, property damage and/or violations of permits and licenses by us. A significant judgment against us, the loss of a significant permit or license or the imposition of a significant fine could have a material negative effect on our financial condition. Certain of our waste disposal operations traverse state and county boundaries. In the future, our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by proposed federal legislation that authorizes the states to enact legislation governing interstate shipments of waste. Such proposed federal legislation may allow individual states to prohibit the disposal of out-of-state waste or to limit the amount of out-of-state waste that could be imported for disposal and may require states, under some circumstances, to reduce the amount of waste exported to other states. If this or similar legislation is enacted in states in which we operate landfills that receive a significant portion of waste originating from out-of-state, our operations could be negatively affected. We believe that several states have proposed or have considered adopting legislation that would regulate the interstate transportation and disposal of waste in the states’ landfills. Our collection, transfer and landfill operations may also be affected by “flow control” legislation which may be proposed in the United States Congress. This proposed federal legislation may allow states and local governments to direct waste generated within their jurisdictions to a specific facility for disposal or processing. If this or similar legislation is enacted, state or local governments with jurisdiction over our landfills could act to limit or prohibit disposal or processing of waste in our landfills. Adverse weather could hamper our operations, which could increase our operating costs and negatively impact our results of operations. Our collection and landfill operations could be adversely affected by long periods of inclement weather, which interfere with collection and landfill operations, delay the development of landfill capacity and/or reduce the volume of waste generated by our customers. In addition, certain of our operations may be temporarily suspended as a result of particularly harsh weather conditions. Severe weather can negatively affect the costs of collection and disposal. Long periods of inclement weather could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Our business is seasonal, which causes our quarterly results to fluctuate. Our results of operations tend to vary seasonally, with the first quarter typically generating the least amount of revenues, higher revenues in the second and third quarters, and a decline in the fourth quarter. This seasonality reflects the lower volume of waste during the fall and winter months primarily due to lower construction activities. Also, certain operating and selling, general, and administrative costs remain relatively constant throughout the calendar year, which, when offset by these revenues, results in a similar seasonality of operating income. Our significant leverage exposes us to increased expense and operational restrictions which could make it difficult to operate our business. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2007, we had consolidated debt, including capital lease obligations, of approximately $165.2 million. As of December 31, 2007, our availability under our senior credit facility was approximately $26.0 million. We are vulnerable to increases in interest rates because the debt under our senior credit facility is at a variable interest rate. Although in the past we have on occasion entered into certain hedging instruments in an effort to manage our interest rate risk, there is no assurance that we will continue to do so, on favorable terms or at all, in the future. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. For example, it could: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt and our leases; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt and lease obligations, thereby reducing the availability or our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness or better access to capital by, for example, limiting our ability to enter into new markets or acquire new or renovate our existing facilities and equipment; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds in the future. If we are unable to meet our debt and lease obligations, we could be forced to restructure or refinance our obligations, seek additional equity financing or sell assets, which we may not be able to do on satisfactory terms or at all. As a result, we could default on those obligations. In addition, our credit facilities contain financial and other restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interests. Any new facility likely will contain similar covenants and restrictions. Our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all of our indebtedness, which could adversely affect our financial health and could prevent us from fulfilling our obligations. We are required to make accounting and tax-related estimates and judgments in preparing our financial statements. In preparing our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, we make several estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting for and recognition of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. These estimates and assumptions must be made because certain information that is used in the preparation of our financial statements is dependent on future events or cannot be calculated with a high degree of precision from data available. In some cases, these estimates are particularly difficult to determine and we must exercise significant judgment. The estimates and the assumptions having the greatest amount of uncertainty, subjectivity and complexity are related to our accounting for landfills, derivatives, self-insurance reserves, reserve for doubtful accounts, intangibles, allocation of acquisition purchase prices, deferred income taxes, asset impairments, litigation, claims and assessments. Actual results could differ materially from the estimates and assumptions that we use, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 20 Table of Contents Our stock is thinly traded, which can cause volatility in its price. There currently is a public market for our common stock, but there is no assurance that there will always be such a market, even if the proposed going private transaction is not consummated. Our stock is thinly traded due in part, we believe, to the high level of insider ownership of our company. Thinly traded stock can be more susceptible to market volatility. This market volatility could significantly affect the market price of our common stock without regard to our operating performance. Securities markets worldwide experience significant price and volume fluctuations. In addition, the price of our common stock could be subject to wide fluctuations in response to the following factors, among others: • a deviation in our results from the expectations of public market analysts and investors; • a decrease in or cessation of our cash dividend; • statements by research analysts about our common stock, our company or our industry; • changes in market valuations of companies in our industry and market evaluations of our industry generally; • actions taken by our competitors; • sales or other issuances of common stock by us, our senior officers or other affiliates; or • other general economic, political or market conditions, many of which are beyond our control. The market price of our common stock will also be impacted by our quarterly operating results which can fluctuate from quarter to quarter. Factors that may impact our quarterly results include, among others, failure to obtain required permits, costs of regulatory compliance, fuel prices, general regional and national economic conditions, competition, unexpected costs and changes in pricing, consumer trends, costs of compliance with corporate governance and Sarbanes-Oxley requirements, and other factors discussed in Item 1A - “Risk Factors” beginning on page 17 and in Item 7 -“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 