ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSInvesting in our common stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If any of such risks actually occur, our business, operating results or financial condition could be adversely affected. In those cases, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you may lose all or part of your investment.Risks Related to Our BusinessOur operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock.It is difficult to accurately forecast our revenues and plan our operating expenses. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating forecasts and estimates of future revenues from restaurants. Restaurants that use our Electronic Reservation Book, or ERB, pay us an installation fee, a monthly subscription fee and a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations, as applicable. Restaurants that use Connect pay us a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations. Revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast due to the uncertainty of the volume and timing of obtaining new restaurant customers and of diners seated through OpenTable reservations. Some of our expenses are fixed, and, as a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending in a timely manner to compensate for any unexpected shortfall in revenues. This inability could cause our net income in a given quarter to be lower than expected.Our revenues and operating results could vary significantly from quarter to quarter and year to year because of a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control. As a result, comparing our operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful. In addition to other risk factors discussed in this section, factors that may contribute to the variability of our quarterly and annual results include:•our ability to accurately forecast revenues and appropriately plan our expenses;•the impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending;•our ability to maintain an adequate rate of growth;•our ability to effectively manage our growth;•our ability to attract new restaurant customers;•our ability to acquire new users for our websites and mobile apps;•our ability to retain existing restaurant customers and diners or encourage repeat reservations;•the effects of increased competition in our business;•our ability to keep pace with changes in technology and our competitors;•the impact of people using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet;•our ability to successfully enter new markets and manage our international expansion;•our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience through our products and services;•our ability to successfully manage any acquisitions of businesses, solutions or technologies;•the impact of fluctuations in currency exchange rates;•the success of our marketing efforts;•interruptions in service and any related impact on our reputation;•the attraction and retention of qualified employees and key personnel;•our ability to protect our intellectual property, including our proprietary ERB and Connect products;•costs associated with defending intellectual property infringement and other claims;•our ability to obtain third-party licenses on commercially reasonable terms;•our ability to choose and effectively manage third-party service providers;11Table of Contents•changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation;•our ability to prevent disclosure of our confidential information and the confidential information of our customers;•compliance with and changes in government regulation affecting us or our business, including privacy laws and regulations;•our ability to obtain additional capital;•the effects of natural or man-made catastrophic events;•changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities; •our expansion into new products, services, technologies and geographic regions;•restrictions on our business imposed by the agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facility; •the effectiveness of our internal controls;•the expansion of social media platforms;•seasonal patterns in restaurant dining; and•changes in consumer behavior and any related impact on the restaurant industry, especially in the geographic markets in which we operate.As a result of these and other factors, the results of any prior quarterly or annual periods should not be relied upon as indications of our future operating performance. In addition, our operating results may not meet our financial forecasts or the expectations of investors or public market analysts who follow our company.The impact of worldwide economic conditions, including the resulting effect on consumer spending, may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our performance is subject to worldwide economic conditions and their impact on levels of consumer spending. Some of the factors having an impact on discretionary consumer spending include general economic conditions, unemployment, consumer debt, reductions in net worth, residential real estate and mortgage markets, taxation, energy prices, interest rates, consumer confidence and other macroeconomic factors. Consumer purchases of discretionary items generally decline during recessionary periods and other periods in which disposable income is adversely affected. Because spending for restaurant dining is generally considered to be discretionary, declines in consumer spending may have a more negative effect on our business than on those businesses that sell products or services considered to be necessities. In particular, a significant majority of our restaurant customers are fine-dining restaurants which have been particularly affected by economic downturns.Unfavorable changes in the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our restaurant customers and diners could result in reduced traffic in some or all of the restaurants that use our solutions, result in fewer reservations made through our websites or the websites of our partners or restaurant customers and lower our profit margins, cause our restaurant customers to go out of business, cause our restaurant customers to terminate their subscriptions to our solutions, request lower pricing for our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results.Deterioration or volatility of the U.S. or global economic environment may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, the majority of our restaurant customers are located in major metropolitan areas like London, New York City and the San Francisco Bay Area, and to the extent any one of these geographic areas experiences any of the above described conditions to a greater extent than other geographic areas, the material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results could be exacerbated. Our recent growth rate will likely not be sustainable and a failure to maintain an adequate growth rate will adversely affect our net income and our business.Our revenues have grown rapidly, increasing from $139.5 million in 2011, to $161.6 million in 2012, to $190.1 million in 2013 representing a compound annual growth rate of 17%. We do not expect to sustain our recent growth rate in future periods, and you should not rely on the revenue growth of any prior quarterly or annual periods as an indication of our future performance. If we are unable to maintain adequate revenue growth, our net income will be adversely affected, and we may not have adequate resources to execute our business strategy.12Table of ContentsGrowth may place significant demands on our management and our infrastructure.We have experienced substantial growth in our business. This growth has placed and may continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As our operations grow in size, scope and complexity, we will need to improve and upgrade our systems and infrastructure to offer an increasing number of customers enhanced solutions, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure will require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources in advance of an increase in the volume of business, with no assurance that the volume of business will increase. Continued growth could also strain our ability to maintain reliable service levels for our customers, develop and improve our operational, financial and management controls, enhance our reporting systems and procedures and recruit, train and retain highly skilled personnel.Managing our growth will require significant expenditures and allocation of valuable management resources. If we fail to achieve the necessary level of efficiency in our organization as it grows, our business, operating results and financial condition would be harmed.If we fail to increase the number of our customers and diners or retain existing customers and diners, our revenues and our business will be harmed.In the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, almost all of our revenues were generated by our restaurant customers. Restaurants that use our ERB pay us a one-time installation fee, a monthly subscription fee for the use of our hardware and software, and a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations, as applicable. Restaurants that use Connect pay us a fee for each restaurant guest seated through online reservations. Our growth depends in large part on increasing the number of our restaurant customers, increasing the number of users of our websites and mobile apps and then converting those persons into diners who use our websites and mobile apps to make restaurant reservations. Either category of customers may decide not to continue to use our solutions in favor of other means of reserving tables or because of budgetary constraints, pricing or other reasons.To grow our base of restaurant customers, we must convince prospective restaurant customers of the benefits of our ERB, Connect and related solutions over solutions offered by our competitors and encourage them to forego the traditional pen-and-paper reservation book to which they are likely accustomed. Due to the fragmented nature of the restaurant industry, many prospective restaurant customers may not be familiar with our solutions and will generally favor using more traditional methods of taking reservations.To increase the number of diners who use our websites and mobile apps, we must convince them of the value of our solutions. Our ability to do so is driven in large part by increasing the number of restaurant listings available on our websites and mobile apps and also by making our websites and mobile apps convenient and user-friendly.We cannot assure you that we will be successful in continuing to expand our restaurant customer base or in continuing to attract diners to make reservations on our websites and mobile apps. Our future sales and marketing efforts may be ineffective. If diners choose not to use our solutions or decrease their use of our solutions or we are unable to attract new diners, search activity on our websites and mobile apps could decline, the usefulness of our solutions could be diminished and we could experience declining revenues.The markets for our solutions may become more competitive, and there can be no certainty that we will maintain our current restaurant customers and diners or attract new restaurants and diners or that our operating margins will not be affected by competition. We face significant competition for reservation-taking restaurants and diners. The traditional competitor for our restaurant software and hardware solutions is the pen-and-paper reservation book. We also compete with reservation management software companies, point of sale providers and waitlist management system providers. Competitors for our restaurant solutions also include products and services that enable restaurants to allocate tables for online booking as well as custom-built solutions, such as restaurant-developed solutions, ticketing software and private dining software. Our primary competitor for diners making reservations is the phone. Other competitors for diners making reservations include other online reservation services, allocation-based reservation-taking websites that offer diners the ability to book reservations for a limited selection of restaurant table inventory and reservation resellers. We also compete for the attention of diners with companies that operate, or could develop, websites and mobile apps as well as offline resources providing restaurant information and related services. We face competition from online and offline sources of restaurant information, including search engines, review sites, dining guides and directories, travel guides, newspapers, magazines and web blogs. We expect that the competitive environment for our solutions may become more intense as additional companies enter our markets. Any new competitors could have greater name recognition among restaurants and diners and greater financial, technical and marketing resources. In both North America and international markets, greater financial resources and product 13Table of Contentsdevelopment capabilities may allow competitors to respond more quickly to new or emerging technologies and changes in restaurant and diner requirements that may render our solutions obsolete. These competitors could introduce new solutions with competitive price and performance characteristics or undertake more aggressive marketing campaigns than ours. If we lose existing restaurant customers and diners, face downward pricing pressures or fail to attract new restaurants and diners as a result of increased competition, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected.Rapid technological changes may render our technology obsolete or decrease the attractiveness of our solutions to our customers.To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the functionality and features of our websites, mobile apps, ERB and Connect. The Internet and the online commerce industry are rapidly changing. If competitors introduce new solutions embodying new technologies, or if new industry standards and practices emerge, our existing websites, mobile apps, technology, ERB and Connect may become obsolete. Our future success will depend on our ability to:•enhance our existing solutions;•develop and potentially license new solutions and technologies that address the increasingly sophisticated and varied needs of our prospective customers; and•respond to technological advances and emerging industry standards and practices on a cost-effective and timely basis.Developing our ERB, Connect, websites, mobile apps and other technology entails significant technical and business risks. We may use new technologies ineffectively, or we may fail to adapt our websites, mobile apps, transaction processing systems and network infrastructure to consumer requirements or emerging industry standards. For example, our website and mobile app functionality that allows searches and displays of reservation availability is a critical part of our service, and it may become out-of-date or insufficient from our customers' perspective or in relation to the search and display functionality of our competitors' websites and mobile apps. If we face material delays in introducing new or enhanced solutions, our customers may forego the use of our solutions in favor of those of our competitors.More people are using devices other than personal computers to access the Internet. If diners do not widely adopt versions of our websites and mobile apps developed for these devices or if our restaurant customers fail to optimize their websites for these devices, our business could be adversely affected.The number of people who access the Internet through devices other than personal computers, such as smartphones and tablets, has increased dramatically in the past few years. The functionality associated with some alternative devices may make the use of our solutions more difficult and the versions of our solutions developed for these devices may not be compelling to diners. In addition, most of our restaurant customers do not have mobile optimized websites, which may negatively impact the ability of diners to make online reservations via their mobile devices. Also, search queries made by diners on mobile devices may fail to direct diners to our websites and mobile apps and the websites of our restaurant customers. As new devices and platforms are continually being released, it is difficult to predict the problems we may encounter in adapting our websites and mobile apps and developing competitive new solutions. We expect to continue to devote significant resources to the creation, support and maintenance of mobile sites and apps. If we are slow to develop mobile sites and apps that are more compatible with alternative devices and platforms, our business could be adversely affected.We may be unsuccessful in expanding our operations internationally, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.In 2004, we established our European headquarters in London and expanded our North American presence in Canada. In 2006, we opened an office in Tokyo and further expanded our North American presence in Mexico. In 2007, we expanded our European presence with offices in France, Germany and Spain. In 2010, we acquired toptable, which operated a leading restaurant reservation site in the United Kingdom. Our ability to expand internationally involves various risks, including the need to invest significant resources in such expansion, the possibility that returns on such investments will not be achieved in the near future and competitive environments. Our international operations may not prove to be successful in certain markets. For example, in 2008, we decided to close our offices in France and Spain. In addition, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant expenses in advance of generating material revenues as we attempt to establish our presence in particular international markets. Our current and any future international expansion plans we choose to undertake will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We do not have substantial experience in selling our solutions in international markets or in conforming to the local cultures, standards or policies necessary to successfully compete in those markets, and we must invest significant resources in order to build a direct sales force and operational infrastructure in such markets. Furthermore, in many international markets we are not the first entrant and there exists greater competition with stronger brand names than we have faced in North American markets. Our ability to expand internationally will also be limited by the demand for our solutions and the adoption of the Internet in these markets. Different privacy, censorship and liability 14Table of Contentsstandards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business and operating results to suffer.Any future international operations may also fail to succeed due to other risks inherent in foreign operations, including:•difficulties or delays in acquiring a network of restaurant customers in one or more international markets;•different restaurant preferences and dining patterns than those in North America;•varied, unfamiliar and unclear legal and regulatory restrictions;•unexpected changes in international regulatory requirements and tariffs;•legal, political or systemic restrictions on the ability of U.S. companies to market services or otherwise do business in foreign countries;•less extensive adoption of the Internet as a commerce medium or information source and increased restriction on the content of websites and mobile apps;•difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations;•greater difficulty in accounts receivable collection;•currency fluctuations;•potential adverse tax consequences;•lack of infrastructure to adequately conduct electronic commerce transactions; and•price controls or other restrictions on foreign currency.As a result of these obstacles, we may find it impossible or prohibitively expensive to expand internationally or we may be unsuccessful in our attempt to do so, which could harm our business, operating results and financial condition.We may be unable to successfully execute our business strategy if we fail to continue to provide our customers with a high-quality customer experience.A critical component of our strategy is providing a high-quality customer experience for both restaurants and diners. Accordingly, the effective performance, reliability and availability of our ERB, Connect, websites, mobile apps and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation and our ability to attract and retain customers. In order to provide a high-quality customer experience, we have invested and currently intend to continue to invest substantial resources in our ERB, Connect, website and mobile app development and functionality and customer service operations. If we do not continue to make such investments and as a result, or due to other reasons, fail to provide a high-quality customer experience, we may lose restaurants and diners from our network, which could significantly decrease the value of our solutions to both groups. Moreover, failure to provide our customers with high-quality customer experiences for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and adversely affect our efforts to develop as a trusted website and mobile app.Acquisitions could disrupt our business and harm our financial condition and operating results.Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to expand our offerings and markets and grow our business in response to changing technologies, customer demands and competitive pressures. In some circumstances, we may determine to do so through the acquisition of complementary businesses, solutions or technologies rather than through internal development. During 2013, we acquired Foodspotting, Inc., JustChalo Inc. and Quickcue, LLC, as well as the Rezbook business from Urbanspoon, an operating business of IAC/InterActiveCorp. The identification of suitable acquisition candidates can be difficult, time-consuming and costly, and we may not be able to successfully complete identified acquisitions. Furthermore, even if we successfully complete an acquisition, we may not be able to successfully assimilate, integrate and maintain the business, technologies, solutions, personnel or operations of the company that we acquired, particularly if key personnel of an acquired company decide not to work for us. In addition, we may issue equity securities to complete an acquisition, which would dilute our stockholders' ownership and could adversely affect the price of our common stock. Acquisitions may also involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience. Consequently, we may not achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisitions which could harm our operating results.We face risks associated with currency exchange rate fluctuations.For the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, we incurred approximately 24% of our operating expenses in pounds sterling, euros, yen and other foreign currencies, while most of our revenues were denominated in U.S. dollars. Conducting business in currencies other than U.S. dollars subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative 15Table of Contentsimpact on our reported operating results. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies affect our revenues, costs and expenses, and operating margins, and result in foreign currency transaction gains and losses. To date, we have not engaged in exchange rate hedging activities. Even if we were to implement hedging strategies to mitigate this risk, these strategies might not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange rate fluctuations and would involve costs and risks of their own, such as ongoing management time and expertise, external costs to implement the hedging activities and potential accounting implications.We rely on our marketing efforts to attract new customers and must do so in a cost-effective manner; otherwise our operations will be harmed.A significant component of our business strategy is the promotion of our websites, mobile apps, ERB and Connect. We believe that the attractiveness of our solutions to our current and potential customers, both restaurants and diners, will increase as new restaurants provide additional restaurant listings and diners increasingly use our websites and mobile apps to conduct searches and make restaurant reservations. This is because an increase in the number of restaurant listings and the number of diners searching those listings increases the utility of our websites and mobile apps and their associated search, listing and reservation services. If we do not continue to grow the use of our websites, mobile apps, ERB and Connect, we may fail to build the critical mass of both restaurant customers and diners required to substantially increase our revenues.In addition, if we are unable to effectively market our solutions to new customers or are unable to do so in a cost-effective manner, our operating results could be adversely affected.System interruptions that impair access to our websites or mobile apps would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results.The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our ERB, Connect, websites, mobile apps and network infrastructure are critical to our reputation, our ability to attract and retain both restaurant customers and diners and our ability to maintain adequate customer service levels. Any systems interruption that results in the unavailability of our websites, mobile apps or any restaurant connected to our websites or mobile apps could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and operating results to suffer. We may experience temporary system interruptions (either to our websites or mobile apps or at our restaurant customer locations) for a variety of reasons, including network failures, power failures, software errors or an overwhelming number of visitors trying to reach our websites and mobile apps during periods of strong demand. In addition, our primary data center is hosted by a third-party. Because we are dependent in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our systems and because some of the causes of system interruptions may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all.We depend on key and highly skilled personnel to operate our business, and if we are unable to retain our current personnel or hire additional personnel our ability to develop and successfully market our business could be harmed.We believe our future success will depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, technical, finance, creative and sales and marketing personnel. Moreover, we believe that our future success is highly dependent on the contributions of our named executive officers. All of our U.S. officers and other employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time, and their knowledge of our business and industry would be extremely difficult to replace. In addition, the loss of any key employees or the inability to attract or retain qualified personnel could delay the development and introduction of, and harm our ability to sell, our solutions and harm the market's perception of us. Competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. Further, our principal overseas operations are based in London and Tokyo, which are cities that, similar to our headquarters region, have high costs of living and consequently high compensation standards. Qualified individuals are in high demand, and we may incur significant costs to attract them. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing sales, operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so. If we are unable to attract and retain the qualified personnel we need to succeed, our business will suffer.Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Our named executive officers have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, our business, operating results and financial condition will be harmed.16Table of ContentsFailure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and operating results.Because our business is heavily dependent on our intellectual property, including our proprietary software, the protection of our intellectual property rights is crucial to the success of our business. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website or mobile app features, software and functionality or obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our websites and mobile apps, our content and our trademarks. Moreover, policing our proprietary rights is difficult and may not always be effective. In particular, because we sell our solutions internationally, we may need to enforce our rights under the laws of countries that do not protect proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the United States.We have registered "OpenTable" and our other trademarks as trademarks in the United States and in certain other countries. We have also registered "toptable" in the United Kingdom. Competitors may adopt service names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of other registered trademarks or trademarks that incorporate variations of the term OpenTable or our other trademarks. From time to time, we have acquired Internet domain names held by others when such names were causing consumer confusion or had the potential to cause consumer confusion.We currently hold the "OpenTable.com" and "toptable.co.uk" Internet domain names and various other related domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies. If we lose the ability to use a domain name in a particular country, we would be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our solutions within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials, or elect not to sell solutions in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and operating results. The regulation of domain names in the United States and in foreign countries is subject to change. Regulatory bodies could establish additional top-level domains, appoint additional domain name registrars or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we may not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name OpenTable or toptable in all of the countries in which we currently conduct or intend to conduct business.Litigation or proceedings before the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office or other governmental authorities and administrative bodies in the United States and abroad may be necessary in the future to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our patent rights, trade secrets and domain names and to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. Our efforts to enforce or protect our proprietary rights may be ineffective and could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could substantially harm our operating results.Assertions by third parties of infringement by us of their intellectual property rights could result in significant costs and substantially harm our business and operating results.Other parties have asserted, and may in the future assert, that we have infringed their intellectual property rights. Such litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners who have no relevant product revenue, and therefore our own issued and pending patents may provide little or no deterrence. For example, on May 12, 2009, Mount Hamilton Partners, LLC, or Mount Hamilton, filed a patent infringement lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California, seeking, among other things, a judgment that we have infringed a certain patent held by Mount Hamilton, an injunctive order against the alleged infringing activities and an award for damages. We subsequently entered into a settlement agreement with Mount Hamilton, effective as of June 30, 2011, and the claims between the parties were dismissed with prejudice on July 7, 2011.Furthermore, we cannot predict whether assertions of third-party intellectual property rights or claims arising from such assertions will substantially harm our business and operating results. The defense of any infringement claims of a third party, whether they are with or without merit or are determined in our favor, may result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel. Furthermore, an adverse outcome of a dispute may require us to pay damages, potentially including treble damages and attorneys' fees, if we are found to have willfully infringed a party's patent or copyright rights; cease making, licensing or using solutions that are alleged to incorporate the intellectual property of others; expend additional development resources to redesign our solutions; and enter into potentially unfavorable royalty or license agreements in order to obtain the right to use necessary technologies. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may be unavailable on terms acceptable to us, or at all. In any event, we may need to license intellectual property which would require us to pay royalties or make one-time payments.We depend in part on licenses of technologies from third parties in order to deliver our solutions, and, as a result, our business is dependent in part on the availability of such licenses on commercially reasonable terms.We currently, and will continue to, license certain technologies from third parties. We cannot be certain that these third-party content licenses will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or that we will be able to successfully integrate 17Table of Contentsthe technology into our solutions. These third-party in-licenses may expose us to increased risk, including risks associated with the assimilation of new technology sufficient to offset associated acquisition and maintenance costs. The inability to obtain any of these licenses could result in delays in solution development until equivalent technology can be identified and integrated. Any such delays in services could cause our business, operating results and financial condition to suffer.We rely on third parties for many systems and services.We rely on third-party service providers for certain customer care, fulfillment, processing, systems development, technology, software development, mobile website and application development and other services. If these third parties experience difficulty meeting our requirements or standards, it could damage our reputation or make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our business. In addition, if such third-party service providers were to cease operations, temporarily or permanently, face financial distress or other business disruption, we could suffer increased costs and delays in our ability to provide similar services until an equivalent service provider could be found or we could develop replacement technology or operations. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in choosing high quality partners or we ineffectively manage these partners, it could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance.Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation.A portion of traffic to our websites and mobile apps comes from non-paid search results that appear on search engines such as Google and Bing. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user's search, such that the algorithmic placement of links to our websites or mobile apps can be negatively affected. If a major search engine changes its algorithms in a manner that negatively affects the search engine ranking of our websites or mobile apps, our business and financial performance would be adversely affected. In addition, to the extent Google, Bing or other leading search or meta-search engines disintermediate restaurant reservation or restaurant content providers by offering comprehensive restaurant reservation capabilities, or refer those leads to other favored partners, there could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance.Confidentiality agreements with employees and others may not adequately prevent disclosure of trade secrets and other proprietary information.We have devoted substantial resources to the development of our proprietary technology, including the proprietary software component of our ERB, Connect, and related processes. In order to protect our proprietary technology and processes, we rely in part on confidentiality agreements with our employees, licensees, independent contractors and other advisors. These agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of confidential information and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of unauthorized disclosure of confidential information. In addition, others may independently discover trade secrets and proprietary information, and in such cases we could not assert any trade secret rights against such parties. Costly and time-consuming litigation could be necessary to enforce and determine the scope of our proprietary rights, and failure to obtain or maintain trade secret protection could adversely affect our competitive business position.Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our confidential information, the confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results.Our security measures or those of our third-party service providers may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Our business requires us to use and store customer, employee and business partner personally identifiable information. This may include names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, contact preferences, tax identification numbers and payment account information. We require user names and passwords in order to access our information technology network. We also use encryption and authentication technologies to secure the transmission and storage of data. These security measures may be compromised as a result of third-party security breaches, employee error, malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularity, and result in persons obtaining unauthorized access to our data or accounts. Third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees into disclosing user names, passwords or other sensitive information, which may in turn be used to access our information technology network.In addition, some of our restaurant customers currently require that diners enter their credit card information to hold a reservation. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. While we devote significant resources to network security, data encryption and other security measures to protect our systems and data, these security measures cannot provide absolute security. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate network security problems, bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and security vulnerabilities could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in unexpected interruptions, 18Table of Contentsdelays, cessation of service and may harm our business operations. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could misappropriate our proprietary information or personally identifiable information of our employees, restaurant customers or diners.Any such compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand, result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and operating results.Failure to comply with federal, state and international privacy laws and regulations, or the expansion of current or the enactment of new privacy laws or regulations, could adversely affect our business.A variety of federal, state and international laws and regulations govern the collection, use, retention, sharing and security of consumer data. The existing privacy-related laws and regulations are evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. In addition, various federal, state and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies may expand current or enact new laws regarding privacy matters. For example, recently there have been Congressional hearings and increased attention to the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices. We have posted privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of subscriber data on our websites and applications. Several Internet companies have incurred substantial penalties for failing to abide by the representations made in their privacy policies and practices. In addition, several states have adopted legislation that requires businesses to implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and practices to protect sensitive personal information and to provide notice to consumers in the event of a security breach. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws, regulations or industry self-regulatory principles could result in claims, proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others or other liabilities, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, a failure or perceived failure to comply with industry standards or with our own privacy policies and practices could result in a loss of restaurant customers and diners and adversely affect our business.We may require additional capital to respond to business opportunities, acquisitions, challenges, or unforeseen circumstances. If such capital is not available to us, our business, operating results and financial condition may be harmed.We may require additional capital to expand our business. However, additional funds may not be available when we need them, on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all. Any debt financing secured by us could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions. For example, in January 2013, we entered into a credit agreement with Wells Fargo Bank, National Association for a senior secured revolving credit facility of $50.0 million, which contains various restrictive covenants applicable to us. If we do not have funds available to enhance our solutions, maintain the competitiveness of our technology or pursue business opportunities, we may not be able to service our existing customers or acquire new customers. In addition, if we do not have funds available to make strategic acquisitions, we may not be able to expand our business. The inability to raise additional capital could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. See “--The agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facility impose restrictions on us that limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations under our debt.”If we issue additional shares of common stock to raise capital, it may have a dilutive effect on your investment.If we raise additional capital through further issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution in their percentage ownership of our company. Moreover, any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges senior to those of holders of our common stock.A new or incremental tightening of the credit markets may have an adverse effect on our ability to obtain short-term debt financing.In the event of financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, more stringent lending standards and terms and higher volatility in interest rates. Persistence of these conditions could have a material adverse effect on our access to short-term debt and the terms and cost of that debt. As a result, we may not be able to secure additional financing in a timely manner, or at all, to meet our future capital needs, which may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition.19Table of ContentsOur business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fires, floods and other natural catastrophic events and to interruption by man-made problems.Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, fires, floods, power losses, telecommunications failures, terrorist attacks, acts of war, human errors, break-ins and similar events. For example, a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, fire or flood, could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results and financial condition, and our insurance coverage may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our U.S. corporate offices and the facility we lease to house our computer and telecommunications equipment are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, acts of terrorism, which may be targeted at metropolitan areas which have higher population density than rural areas, could cause disruptions in our or our restaurant customers' businesses or the economy as a whole. We may not have sufficient protection or recovery plans in certain circumstances, such as natural disasters affecting the San Francisco Bay Area, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. Our servers may also be vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems, which could lead to interruptions, delays, loss of critical data or the unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer data. See "—Our failure or the failure of third-party service providers to protect our confidential information, the confidential information of our customers and our network against security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and operating results."Any condition that causes people to refrain, or prevents people, from dining at restaurants, such as severe weather, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, or threats of terrorist attacks may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition.Our business and operations could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather or outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases or other conditions that cause people to refrain, or prevent people, from dining at restaurants. For example, many of our restaurant customers are located in major metropolitan areas such as New York City and San Francisco. Severe weather conditions or natural disasters in those areas, such as blizzards, earthquakes or hurricanes, may prevent people from dining at restaurants and adversely affect our business. For example, Superstorm Sandy in October 2012 interrupted operations at many of our restaurant customers along the East Coast, resulting in a negative impact on our reservation revenue around that time.Outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases may also cause people to refrain from dining at restaurants. Furthermore, we cannot predict the effects that actual or threatened armed conflicts, terrorist attacks, efforts to combat terrorism or heightened security requirements could have on our operations, the economy or consumer confidence generally. Any of these events could affect consumer spending patterns in general or dining patterns in particular, or affect our restaurant customers due to security measures.A prolonged recurrence of the above factors or in other business and economic conditions affecting our restaurant customers could result in a significant decline in demand for restaurant dining and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations by reducing traffic in some or all of the restaurants that use our solutions, reducing the number of reservations made through our websites and mobile apps or the websites and mobile apps of our partners or restaurant customers, causing our restaurant customers to go out of business, or causing our restaurant customers to request lower pricing for our solutions, terminate their subscriptions to our solutions or default on their payment obligations to us.Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional tax liabilities could adversely affect our earnings and financial condition.As a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. In the ordinary course of a global business, there are intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our income tax returns are routinely subject to audits by tax authorities. Although we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine our tax estimates, a final determination of tax audits or tax disputes could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.We are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. We are routinely under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.In addition, our future effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in tax rates, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets or liabilities, changes in our legal structure or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. Such changes could have a material adverse impact on our financial results.20Table of ContentsOur expansion into new products, services and technologies subjects us to additional business, legal, financial and competitive risks.We may have limited or no experience in our newer offerings, and our restaurants and diners may not adopt our new offerings. These offerings may present new and difficult technology challenges, and we may be subject to claims if customers of these offerings experience service disruptions or failures or other quality issues. In addition, profitability, if any, in our newer activities may be lower than in our older activities, and we may not be successful enough in these newer activities to recoup our investments in them. If any of this were to occur, it could damage our reputation, limit our growth and negatively affect our operating results.The agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facility impose restrictions on us that limit the discretion of management in operating our business and that, in turn, could impair our ability to meet our obligations under our debt.The agreements governing our senior secured revolving credit facility include restrictive covenants that, among other things, restrict our ability to:•incur additional debt or liens;•make certain investments;•merge, consolidate or enter into any similar combination with any other person;•dispose of property in certain circumstances;•make certain payments, including in connection with dividends and stock repurchases;•make fundamental changes in our business or enter into new lines of business; or•enter into transactions with affiliates. In addition, our senior secured revolving credit facility includes other restrictions, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios and levels of liquidity. These covenants could materially and adversely affect our ability to finance our future operations or capital needs. Furthermore, they may restrict our ability to expand, to pursue our business strategies and otherwise to conduct our business. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by circumstances and events beyond our control, such as prevailing economic conditions and changes in regulations, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to comply. Our failure to comply with the terms and covenants in our indebtedness could lead to a default under the terms of the governing agreements, and our obligations under such agreements may be accelerated upon the occurrence of an event of default under such agreements.We incur significant costs as a public company, and evolving laws and regulations applicable to public companies may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition.As a public company, we incur significant accounting, legal and other expenses, including costs associated with our public company reporting requirements. We also incur costs associated with corporate governance requirements, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, as well as rules implemented by the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market.New laws and regulations as well as changes to existing laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and rules adopted by the SEC and by The NASDAQ Stock Market, would likely result in increased costs to us as we respond to their requirements. We have invested and are continuing to invest resources to comply with evolving laws and regulations, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management's time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Furthermore, these laws and regulations could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including director and officer liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these requirements could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers.The expansion of social media platforms presents new risks and challenges, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.The inappropriate use of certain media vehicles could cause brand damage or information leakage or could lead to legal implications from the improper collection and/or dissemination of consumer data. In addition, negative posts or comments about us on any social networking website could seriously damage our reputation. Further, the disclosure of non-public company sensitive information through external media channels could lead to information loss as there might not be structured processes in place to secure and protect information. If our non-public sensitive information is disclosed or if our reputation is seriously damaged through social media, it could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.21Table of ContentsRisks Related to Our IndustrySeasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results.We generally experience some effects of seasonality due to increases in restaurant dining tied to certain holidays and restaurant industry promotions. As a result, we typically experience higher sequential growth in diners seated during the first and fourth quarters, as compared with the second and third quarters. Although historically our revenue has increased in each quarter as we have added restaurant customers and diners, in the future this seasonality may cause fluctuations in our financial results. In addition, other seasonality trends may develop and the existing seasonality and consumer behavior that we experience may change.If use of the Internet, particularly with respect to online restaurant reservations, does not continue to increase as rapidly as we anticipate, our business will be harmed.Our future net profits are substantially dependent upon the continued use of the Internet as an effective medium of business and communication by our target customers. Internet use may not continue to develop at historical rates, and consumers may not continue to use the Internet and other online services as a medium for commerce. In addition, the Internet may not be accepted as a viable long-term marketplace or resource for a number of reasons, including:•actual or perceived lack of security of information or privacy protection;•possible disruptions, computer viruses or other damage to Internet servers or to users' computers; and•excessive governmental regulation.Our success will depend, in large part, upon third parties maintaining the Internet infrastructure to provide a reliable network backbone with the speed, data capacity, security and hardware necessary for reliable Internet access and services. Our business, which relies on a contextually rich websites and mobile apps that requires the transmission of substantial data, is also significantly dependent upon the availability and adoption of broadband Internet access and other high-speed Internet connectivity technologies.Government regulation of the Internet is evolving, and unfavorable changes could substantially harm our business and operating results.We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet, e-commerce and electronic devices. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede our growth. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, mobile communications, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet. Unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and operating results.Risks Related to Owning Our Common StockOur stock price may be volatile, and the value of an investment in our common stock may decline.An active, liquid and orderly market for our common stock may not be sustained, which could depress the trading price of our common stock. The price of our common stock has been, and is likely to continue to be, volatile, which means that it could decline substantially within a short period of time. For example, since shares of our common stock were sold in our initial public offering in May 2009 at a price of $20.00 per share, our closing stock price has ranged from $24.66 to $115.62. The trading price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations in response to various factors, some of which are beyond our control, including:•our operating performance and the operating performance of similar companies;•the overall performance of the equity markets;•the number of shares of our common stock publicly owned and available for trading;•threatened or actual litigation;22Table of Contents•changes in laws or regulations relating to our solutions;•any major change in our board of directors or management;•publication of research reports about us or our industry or positive or negative recommendations or withdrawal of research coverage by securities analysts;•large volumes of sales of our shares of common stock; and•general political and economic conditions.In addition, the stock market in general, and the market for Internet-related companies in particular, has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have often been unrelated or disproportionate to the operating performance of those companies. Securities class action litigation has often been instituted against companies following periods of volatility in the overall market and in the market price of a company's securities. This litigation, if instituted against us, could result in very substantial costs, divert our management's attention and resources and harm our business, operating results and financial condition.If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume could decline.The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, our stock price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our stock could decrease, which might cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.Certain provisions in our charter documents and Delaware law could discourage takeover attempts and lead to management entrenchment.Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or changes in our management without the consent of our board of directors. These provisions include:•a classified board of directors with three-year staggered terms, which may delay the ability of stockholders to change the membership of a majority of our board of directors;•no cumulative voting in the election of directors, which limits the ability of minority stockholders to elect director candidates;•the exclusive right of our board of directors to elect a director to fill a vacancy created by the expansion of the board of directors or the resignation, death or removal of a director, which prevents stockholders from being able to fill vacancies on our board of directors;•the ability of our board of directors to determine to issue shares of preferred stock and to determine the price and other terms of those shares, including preferences and voting rights, without stockholder approval, which could be used to significantly dilute the ownership of a hostile acquirer;•a prohibition on stockholder action by written consent, which forces stockholder action to be taken at an annual or special meeting of our stockholders;•the requirement that a special meeting of stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the chief executive officer or the board of directors, which may delay the ability of our stockholders to force consideration of a proposal or to take action, including the removal of directors; and•advance notice procedures that stockholders must comply with in order to nominate candidates to our board of directors or to propose matters to be acted upon at a stockholders' meeting, which may discourage or deter a potential acquirer from conducting a solicitation of proxies to elect the acquirer's own slate of directors or otherwise attempting to obtain control of us.We are also subject to certain anti-takeover provisions under Delaware law. Under Delaware law, a corporation may not, in general, engage in a business combination with any holder of 15% or more of its capital stock unless the holder has held the stock for three years or, among other things, the board of directors has approved the transaction.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.23Table of Contents