Risk Factors;” and (iii) the other risks detailed from time-to-time in our reports and registration statements filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to revise or update publicly any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. ITEM 1. BUSINESS. Overview We are an Internet-based social expression and personal publishing service that enables consumers to share, print and preserve their memories by leveraging our technology, manufacturing, web-design and merchandising capabilities. Today, our primary focus is on helping consumers manage their memories through the powerful medium of photos. We provide a full range of personalized photo-based products and services that make it easy, convenient and fun for consumers to upload, edit, enhance, organize, find, share, create, print and preserve their memories in a creative and thoughtful manner. Consumers use our products and services to stay connected to their friends and family, to organize their memories in a single location, to tell stories and to preserve their memories for themselves and their children. Our customers purchase physical products both for their own personal use and for giving thoughtful and personalized gifts such as photo books, calendars, greeting cards and other photo-based products and merchandise. We currently generate revenues by producing and selling professionally-bound photo books, personalized calendars, greeting cards, other photo-based merchandise and high-quality prints (ranging in size from wallet to jumbo-sized 20×30 enlargements). We manufacture these items in our Hayward, California manufacturing facility. We have also announced that we are opening a new manufacturing plant in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is planned to be operational by the fourth quarter 2007. By controlling the production process in our own manufacturing facilities, we are able to produce high-quality products, innovate rapidly, maintain a favorable cost structure and ensure timely shipment to customers, even during peak periods of demand. Additionally, we sell a variety of photo-based merchandise that is currently manufactured for us by third parties, such as mugs, mouse pads, coasters, tote bags, desk organizers, puzzles, playing cards, multi-media DVDs, magnets and keepsake boxes, and ancillary products, such as frames, photo albums and scrapbooking accessories. Our high-quality products and services and the compelling online experience we create for our customers, together with our focus on continuous innovation, have earned us numerous third-party accolades and, more importantly, have allowed us to establish a premium brand. We believe that we realize the benefits of a premium brand through high customer loyalty, low customer acquisition costs and premium pricing. Our customers are a central part of our business model. They generate most of the content on our service by uploading their photos and storing their memories. In addition, they share their photos electronically with their friends and families, extending and endorsing our brand and creating a sense of community. Finally, by giving Shutterfly-branded products to colleagues, friends and loved ones throughout the year, customers reinforce the Shutterfly brand. Through these various activities, our customers create a viral network of new users and customers. In addition to driving lower customer acquisition costs through viral marketing, our customers provide input on new features, functionalities and products. Close, frequent customer interactions, coupled with significant 1 Table of Contents investments in sophisticated integrated marketing programs, enable us to fine-tune and tailor our promotions and website presentation to specific customer segments. Consequently, customers are presented with a highly personalized Shutterfly shopping experience, which helps foster a unique and deep relationship with our brand. Our corporation was formed in 1999 and we have experienced rapid growth since launching our service in December 1999. Since inception though December 2006, we have fulfilled more than 14.7 million orders, sold approximately 450 million prints and stored between approximately 1-2 billion of our consumers’ photos in our image archives. According to industry sources, in 2006, Shutterfly.com had approximately 29 million unique visitors. Vision and Mission Our vision is to make the world a better place by helping people share life’s joy. Our mission is to build an unrivaled service that enables deeper, more personal relationships between our customers and those who matter most in their lives. We believe that people have an intrinsic desire for social expression, as they wish to capture and share their experiences and pass them on to future generations. Since the beginning of humankind, people have shared detailed stories of their lives through visual expression. Today, with the evolution of digital cameras and technology, millions of people around the world are capturing their memories and communicating in deeper, more meaningful ways. We believe people will continue to take pictures of important moments in their lives across various touch points throughout the year, including vacations, weddings, birthdays, anniversaries, graduations, family reunions and holidays. Our products and services make sharing, printing and preserving those memories easy, convenient and fun, and allow for our customers to be more thoughtful and creative with their memories. As our customers share these joyous memories, either digitally through our sharing service or physically through giving personalized photo-based gifts, they are enhancing their personal relationships, creating more joy in the world and making the world a better place. Industry Overview Historically, preserving photos and creating original, thoughtful compilations of memories was a difficult, expensive, manual, time-consuming and often inconvenient process for consumers. As a result of these constraints, the desire for easy, convenient, versatile, affordable and trusted online photo services has emerged. Until the widespread adoption of the Internet and digital cameras, there were significant inefficiencies and quality limitations associated with capturing, developing, processing, storing, editing and sharing images. Photos had to be stored in physical form and were vulnerable to deterioration, destruction or loss. Most people chose the limited option of storing their 4x6 prints in shoeboxes or simple photo albums because photography-related markets — including film processing, photo printing and scrapbooking — either did not exist or were not well-integrated. In particular, convenient options for photo production, storage and sharing were very limited; consumers had to settle for ordering duplicate 4x6 prints from either mail-order or local processing labs with varied capabilities and often poor quality control. Furthermore, the “shoebox” approach created significant difficulties for consumers in organizing their photos and limited their ability to be thoughtful and creative with their memories. The photo-related industries had not found a way to capitalize on the public’s need to preserve memories across generations in a secure, convenient, creative and engaging manner. Internet and digital photo-based technology enables consumers to create an archive of memories that extends beyond photos to include highly personalized, more engaging products and services that can be protected and preserved for future generations. We believe that the key forces driving the expansion of the market for these products and services are: • Proliferation of digital cameras and penetration of high-speed connectivity. The growing use of digital cameras, largely driven by price decreases, has increased the demand for online photo-printing services. High-bandwidth, high-speed Internet access has spurred the integration of the Internet into daily life and provides consumers with improved performance and speed for sharing information, especially large files sizes such as digital images. Industry sources estimate that in 2005, worldwide shipments of digital cameras reached approximately 94 million units, a 27% increase from the approximately 74 million units shipped in 2 Table of Contents 2004. Industry sources estimate that by the end of 2006, there will be more than 1 billion Internet users worldwide. In the U.S., industry sources estimate that approximately 58 million households have both Internet connectivity and a digital camera. • Increasing convenience and quality of online photo services. Online photo services provide multiple advantages over at-home or retail printing. Although at-home photo printing is instantaneous, it requires an investment in a printer, photo paper and ink, resulting in a much higher cost per print and is time consuming. In addition, the quality rendered is usually inferior compared to commercially produced prints. Retail printing, while offering higher quality than at-home printing, requires the consumer to make a trip to the retail establishment to pick up his or her prints. Both at-home and retail printing can produce prints of inconsistent quality, have a limited variety of photo-based products and few or no personalization options, and require the consumer to handle shipping or delivery of the product to the final recipient, often with additional costs in time and money. In contrast, online photo services conveniently provide a wide variety of customized, high-quality photo-based products delivered directly to consumers’ doorsteps. • Growing consumer desire to find easy, hassle-free ways to generate personalized content. Consumers are interested in creating highly customized and personalized photo-based products and merchandise to preserve their precious memories, express their creativity and make gift giving more personal and thoughtful. Improvements in software and photo editing tools have enabled consumers to modify their photos quickly and easily using a personal computer. Consumers are now able to create digital compilations of memories that were previously only possible through a physical and more time-consuming process. • Participation in online communities. Consumers have become increasingly comfortable with using the Internet as a forum for sharing and publishing information in open or permission-based networks. Many of the most popular online communities include user-generated, rich-media content such as photos and videos because of visual content’s inherent ability to communicate more powerfully than the written word. Addressable Markets Digital cameras, digital image processing and the Internet have dramatically changed the photo-related services market, and have created entirely new ways for consumers to capture, edit, enhance, organize, find, share, create, print and preserve images. In particular, the range and quality of printed photos, photo-based products, photo-based merchandise and ancillary products have expanded and improved significantly, while associated production costs and the time required to create this output have decreased dramatically. Consequently, companies like Shutterfly are now addressing a wide variety of consumer needs and multiple, large markets in ways not possible with earlier technology. We currently address several adjacent markets related to consumers’ desire to be thoughtful and creative with their memories. These include, but are not limited to: • Greeting cards and stationery. According to the Greeting Card Association’s website, U.S. consumers purchase approximately 7 billion greeting cards each year, generating nearly $7.5 billion in retail sales. More than 90 percent of all U.S. households buy greeting cards, with the average household purchasing 30 individual cards per year. The Greeting Card Association also reports that nine out of ten Americans say they look forward to receiving personal letters and greeting cards because cards allow them to keep in touch with friends and family and make them feel they are important to someone else. • Scrapbooks. According to a 2004 survey by Creating Keepsakes and Craftrends magazine, the U.S. scrapbook industry was approximately $2.55 billion in 2004, up 27.8% from 2001. Additionally, approximately 61% of scrapbookers have at least a college degree and spend almost three hours a week assembling their memories into scrapbooks. • Calendars. A 2002 guide published by the Calendar Marketing Association estimated that 500 million calendars are produced annually in the United States and that approximately 98% of American households have at least one calendar. 3 Table of Contents • Photo prints. Industry sources estimate that the worldwide market for digital photo prints was approximately $38 billion in 2005, growing to approximately $107 billion in 2009, and the U.S. market for digital photo prints was approximately $10 billion in 2005, growing to approximately $30 billion in 2009. In addition, industry sources predict that in the United States, photos ordered over the Internet for mail delivery will grow from approximately $424 million in 2005 to approximately $1.9 billion in 2009. • Photo-based merchandise. Photo-based merchandise is a substantial market opportunity that includes any product that can be customized with the imprint of a digital image. Photo-based merchandise includes, but is not limited to, mugs, mouse pads, bags, puzzles, playing cards and apparel. We generally characterize our products as either “personalized products and services” (formerly called “non print”) or “prints”. Our personalized products and services revenues are derived from sales of greeting cards, calendars, photobooks, and ancillary products such as scrapbooking accessories and other photo-based merchandise, and the related shipping revenue from these sales, while our print revenues are derived from sales of photo prints and the related shipping revenue from these sales. In 2004, 2005 and 2006, our personalized products and services revenues represented approximately 35%, 42% and 51% of our total net revenues, respectively, and our print revenues represented approximately 65%, 58% and 49% of our total net revenues, respectively. The addressable market for our products and services includes every person who enjoys the memories created by digital photographic devices such as cameras, camera cell phones or camcorders. Although photofinishing products and services are purchased by a broad consumer base, we believe that women, in particular, play a key role in many photo-based purchasing decisions. The U.S. Census Bureau reports that there were approximately 42 million women age 25-44 in 2005, and, according to industry sources during 2002, more than 85% of women 18 years and older identified themselves as the principal shopper in their household. Securing the loyalty of this core consumer base represents a sizable market opportunity. Value for Our Customers Creating value for our customers is the basis for our success. We offer customers easy, convenient and fun ways to: • share and preserve memories for family, friends and themselves; • organize all of their photos in a safe and easily accessible location; • maintain emotional connections with friends and family, despite being time-constrained, through thoughtful and personal photo-based communications and gifts; and • achieve satisfaction and self-expression through creativity and telling stories via photos and personalized photo-based products and services. We accomplish this through providing the following benefits to our customers: Broad offering. We offer a wide variety of premium products to customers, including prints, and photo-based products that include, but are not limited to, greeting cards, calendars, photo books, mugs, mouse pads, frames, photo albums and scrapbooking accessories. In addition, we provide a number of valuable tools and services, such as the ability to upload and edit photos online, share photos with friends and family and store an unlimited number of photos on our system at no cost. With many creative options from which to choose, we enable customers to become engaged in the Shutterfly experience and feel a sense of pride in their creations. Exceptional quality and service. We have built strong relationships with our customers who trust us to preserve and protect their memories in a central storage repository. We enable customers to enhance, share and make projects with their photos at their convenience. Our focus on ease of use, image quality, secure photo storage, high-quality products and first-rate packaging has established Shutterfly as a premium brand. Our customers have come to expect the best quality and service from us. This trust is maintained by fast, consistent fulfillment times, responsive customer service and continuous innovation. Customer-focused approach. The entire Shutterfly customer experience reflects our customer-centered approach. Membership is free and offers customers the ability to upload, edit, store and share an unlimited number of photos. Membership is not required to view friends’ and family’s shared pictures, which can be 4 Table of Contents viewed with a simple click. We conveniently mail orders to our customers’ homes or offices, or directly to a gift recipient. We also offer a year-round direct-mail greeting card service where customers upload their electronic address books to Shutterfly and we mail their cards and party invitations on their behalf. We take special care to focus on our customers’ requests for new features and functionality, products and services. The Shutterfly Solution We have developed a portfolio of products and services along with specialized manufacturing capabilities that allow us to offer consumers an easy, convenient and fun way to enjoy, share and preserve their memories. We satisfy traditional consumer needs — by introducing consumers to new forms of communication and creative expression through our website features and functionality, photo prints, and personalized photo-based products and services. We also provide photo printing, storing and sharing. We believe that many people are intimidated by the process of creating photo-based products or merchandise or fear that it will take too much work. We believe that we have removed much of the difficulty and intimidation of the process and have made it easy and enjoyable. In addition to these consumer benefits, we believe that our business model is supported by the following characteristics: Viral network effect. We benefit from a viral network in several ways. When our existing customers upload and share their personal memories through photos, they are providing compelling user-generated content that attracts their friends and family to our website, thus enlarging our network of users and potential customers. This implicit endorsement, coupled with user-friendly policies, such as not requiring share recipients to register to view pictures, reinforces our trusted brand and leads to lower customer acquisition costs. In addition, as our customers create and give thoughtful and unique physical gifts such as greeting cards, calendars and photo books, these products create numerous opportunities for potential customers to interact with our brand. Many of our customers also use our website to create community-oriented products such as a photo book celebrating a school play or a yearbook for their children’s soccer team, and they often proactively introduce and sell these items to larger groups of potential new customers. As our products and services delight our customers, they often become enthusiastic evangelists for Shutterfly and introduce our products and services to their friends and family through word-of-mouth referrals and endorsements. Attractive target demographics reflected in our loyal customer base. We send a survey every month to approximately 5,000 of our customers. We select customers who have made varying numbers of purchases from us historically and who have purchased products from us within the prior 30 days. We typically receive a response rate of approximately 15%. Based upon these surveys, we believe that our current customer base fits the following profile: approximately 84% female, approximately 63% in the 25-44 age range and approximately 53% with children. Our surveys also indicate that the average household income of our customers is greater than $75,000. Our customers have described themselves as being interested in maintaining personal connections with friends and family, wanting to tell stories, wishing to preserve their memories for themselves and their children and wanting an offering that is intuitive and easy to use. As a result, we believe that they are looking for an easy and convenient way to be both thoughtful and creative with their memories. Our customers use our website to share, enhance and preserve memories from vacations, holidays and family events and to create gifts for events such as birthdays, weddings, anniversaries, Halloween, Hanukkah, Christmas, Valentine’s Day, Easter, Mother’s Day and Father’s Day. We believe that our customer loyalty is also aided by high switching costs. If a customer were to leave Shutterfly, he or she would have to spend significant time uploading and organizing photos on a new service. Premium pricing power. We believe that we are able to maintain premium pricing power for many of our products because of our market position and the loyal customer base we have created. We believe that our market position and loyal customer base exist because we have differentiated ourselves in the marketplace by delivering high-quality products, outstanding customer service, an intuitive and easy user experience and continuous innovation across our products and services. Deep understanding of our customers. Customer insights are an important source of new product and service innovation for us, and we continually strive to understand our customers’ needs in order to improve customer satisfaction. We invest significant time and resources to understand and address the needs of our customers through market research, focus groups, customer surveys, usability testing, customer response to 5 Table of Contents promotions and customer service interactions. We believe a coordinated focus on understanding the customer allows us take measures to increase customer loyalty, consumer awareness of Shutterfly, customer satisfaction and repeat purchases. Vertical integration and superior technology. We derived approximately 90% of our net revenues in 2006 from products we manufactured in our Hayward, California facility. Our vertically integrated and highly technical manufacturing approach is essential to our quality control, agility in rolling out new products and ability to secure capacity at critical peak demand periods. We believe that vertical integration provides us with quality, cost, flexibility and innovation advantages, including: • greater consistency and quality of output; • increased ability to control and optimize costs for raw materials and production; • fully automated image processing and print scheduling; • more flexibility to provide rapid, responsive order fulfillment and processing; • assured high-quality capacity, even during peak demand such as the fourth quarter holiday season; • additional insights into new and existing photo products and production processes; • rapid prototyping, testing and refinement of new products and services; and • the ability to address customer inquiries quickly. We have devoted more than six years to developing our proprietary software, technology and production systems that we believe give us an advantage over our competitors. It is our intention to continue investing in and protecting our proprietary technology, platforms and processes that help us differentiate ourselves from the competition and control costs. Our Growth Strategy Our goal is to grow our business, build a premium lifestyle brand and become the leading online provider of products and services dedicated to improving the sharing and preservation of personal memories via social expression and personal publishing. We believe the combination of our focus, our dedication to customers and the benefits we derive from our vertically integrated production facilities will allow us to profitably capture a significant share of our addressable markets. In addition to strong consumer trends supporting our business — such as the proliferation of digital cameras, higher broadband penetration and greater adoption of Internet related e-commerce and communication services — we believe our growth will be supported by the following initiatives: Expand customer base. We intend to expand our customer base and continue to promote the Shutterfly brand. We will leverage existing channels, which include word-of-mouth referrals from existing customers, print advertising, catalogs, online advertising, search engine marketing and complementary strategic alliances with other e-commerce companies such as Amazon.com, Scholastic, David’s Bridal and HSN. Expand product and service offerings. We will continue to innovate in order to increase the breadth and depth of our products and services, including prints, photo-based products, photo-based merchandise and ancillary products. For example, in the past 18 months, we have launched numerous new products, including canvas prints, keepsake boxes, desk organizers, multi-media DVD slideshows, magnets, coasters, year-at-a-glance calendars, tiled mugs, playing cards, puzzles, scrapbooking supplies and frames. We have also made numerous enhancements to our photo books, including new covers, layouts, page designs, and licensed content for children’s character-themed photobooks including Sesame Street®, Clifford the Big Red Dog®, Angelina Ballerina®, and Thomas the Tank Engine®. In addition to new products, we have created new services, including: the ability to search, tag and organize photos; the launch of Shutterfly Studio, our consumer software application that allows for uploading, organizing, printing, sharing and editing from the desktop; a redesigned and easier to use website; a new store that makes shopping easier and more accessible; and dozens of new borders that customers can use to enhance their pictures, cards and photo books. 6 Table of Contents Increase sales to existing customers. We intend to increase both average order size and repeat orders per customer by expanding our products and services, tailoring our offerings to encourage additional purchases for different holidays and life events and increasing our cross-selling and up-selling activities. Leverage vertical integration. We will continue to invest in making our business even more vertically integrated by adding additional in-house production capabilities. We believe this will allow us to extend our objectives to provide the highest quality products and services at the lowest possible costs, to provide exceptional fulfillment and customer service, even at peak demand periods, and to continue to innovate rapidly with new products and services. Develop new lines of business. We intend to continue to leverage our existing systems and capabilities to develop additional adjacent lines of business. For example, our Pro Gallery service, targeted to professional photographers, provides end-to-end fulfillment services, including hosting online photo galleries and providing the printing, payment and order fulfillment functions. For our Pro Gallery line of business, we earn revenues from annual gallery maintenance fees, individual print orders and a transaction fee. In addition, in 2006, partnering with Scholastic, Inc. we launched Picture Perfect Language Arts, a program to help teachers offer new ways to build students’ skills in language arts through the powerful medium of photos. The program, developed for kindergarten through third grade teachers, combines Shutterfly’s experience in digital photography and personal publishing with Scholastic’s education expertise to offer a new perspective on teaching language arts while bringing more creativity into the classroom. International expansion. We intend to develop additional business opportunities through international expansion, targeting consumers in key geographies where digital camera penetration is high and where Internet usage and e-commerce are widespread. Products and Services Using the Shutterfly service is easy, convenient and fun. Our website is designed to be simple, uncluttered and inviting, and we work continuously to enhance the customer experience of the website, while also improving ease of use. In the second half of 2006, Shutterfly announced the first phase of our innovative personal publishing platform, which includes: • an easy-to-use AJAX-based, drag-and-drop website experience; • enhanced sharing and personalization features; • a significantly expanded product offering, with many form factors and design choices; • a wide variety of background designs; • dozens of collage formats on our greeting-cards; and • licensed content and customized storybooks. There are only five navigational “tabs,” which correspond to the primary activities offered by the website — Add Pictures, View & Enhance, Share Online, Order Prints and Shutterfly Store. If consumers decide to either upload pictures or purchase products, they register on the website and begin the following process: Upload. Customers can upload digital photos from their computer to our website one at a time, many at once through simple drag-and-drop or by using Shutterfly Studio, our new photo organization software. There are no limits to photo file sizes and the upload processes are accelerated by multi-threading, which enables photos to be uploaded simultaneously, thereby reducing image upload times. Unlike some competitive 7 Table of Contents services, we do not compress image files as part of the upload process, which we believe preserves quality and photo resolution. Organize and find. Customers initially upload their photos into user-defined albums. We offer multiple ways to further organize and find pictures. For example, customers can automatically sort photos within albums by upload date, photo titles or original filenames. Additionally, customers can quickly search for photos in a number of ways, including by text, date taken, upload date and images ordered on prints or specified products. Customers can also use our “favorites” function to tag their favorite photos with a star rating system on both the website and within Shutterfly Studio. View and enhance. Once photos have been uploaded to Shutterfly, customers can choose to view their photos in a variety of ways, including photo slideshows. To improve picture quality, customers also have access to our free online editing and image enhancement tools. In addition to cropping and red-eye removal, we offer a variety of creative options, such as saturating photos with additional color or changing color shots to black-and-white or sepia. Customers are also able to choose from a wide variety of photo borders. We offer free customized back printing on photos and the option to add captions to many of our products. Customers can view and enhance their photos online or on their desktop via Shutterfly Studio, which easily integrates with our website. Shutterfly Studio provides advanced viewing and enhancing capabilities such as full screen slideshows, cropping, red-, blue- and green-eye removal, sharpening, auto adjustments and captioning. Create. We enable customers to create a variety of personalized products from their photos, including prints in wallet, 4×6, 5×7, 8×10, 11×14, 16×20 and 20×30 sizes, greeting cards, calendars, photo books and other photo-based products and merchandise. Our highly-interactive, design-it-yourself “creation paths” help even first-time customers make professional-looking, high-quality prints and products. Customers can easily design each product by following simple step-by-step instructions and using intuitive features, such as dragging and dropping an image into a template. Our technology then generates an image of the customer’s product on screen so that customers can make any desired design choices or changes and then view the final product to ensure satisfaction before purchase. Customers can also save in-process projects and return to them at a more convenient time to finish and purchase. Recent enhancements made possible from innovations in our personal publishing platform include: • a significantly expanded product offering, with many form factors and design choices including personalized photo covers with printing on the spine, 8x8 Story Books and 12x12 Memory Books; • a wide variety of background designs including 70 pre-set style templates organized across popular “life occasions” such as Wedding, Travel, Birthday, Baby, Kids, Class Year Book, Recipe Book, Portfolio and Journal; • dozens of collage formats on our greeting-cards; • licensed content such as Clifford the Big Red Dog®, Thomas the Tank Engine® and Angelina Ballerina®; and • customized storybooks featuring Sesame Street® and the ABC’s. Share. We enable our customers to share images in several different ways. Customers can e-mail friends, family and colleagues a link to an individual album that can be viewed as a slideshow of images. In order to view those images, e-mail recipients simply click on the URL link in the e-mail and view images immediately without the need to register with Shutterfly. Recipients can then order prints or save them into their own album. Similarly, customers can share their photobooks electronically by sending an e-mail to friends and family with a link to a photobook project, thereby improving the ease of photobook development and collaboration, and sharing of personalized content. Yet another way to share photos is by creating a Shutterfly Collection, which is linked to a personal web address that is powered by Shutterfly. This allows customers to store and share an unlimited number of photo albums. Customers can invite friends and family to view the photos, add additional photos and post comments to both albums and individual photos via the Guestbook feature. To ensure the privacy of Collections, we offer users optional password protection. Shutterfly customers can create up to two free Collections. We also sponsor seasonal and topical photo 8 Table of Contents contests that promote sharing of photos by our customers. To save our customers time, we offer an easy way to copy names, e-mail addresses and mailing addresses from various software such as Outlook, Outlook Express, Entourage, Palm and Eudora into their Shutterfly address book. Order and ship. We provide convenient ordering and flexible shipping options. To order a product after it is created, the customer adds it to his or her shopping cart and completes the billing and shipping information. Shipping addresses can be typed in or easily added directly from a customer’s Shutterfly address book. When a picture or product is being ordered, we flag photos of poor quality, usually due to low resolution, to alert customers of potential quality issues. This helps ensure that a customer does not order an out-of-focus or poor quality picture. Customers can ship single orders to multiple recipients. We also offer several different shipping options, such as next-day, two-day or regular service. Standard turn-around times from the time an order is placed to the time it is shipped are one business day for most print orders and two business days for other photo-based products manufactured by Shutterfly. For our photo-based merchandise manufactured on our behalf by third parties, turn-around times vary, but generally range from two to five days from the time we receive the order and transmit it to our manufacturer. We also offer premium services for addressing, stamping and mailing greeting cards directly to recipients. Archive. We provide customers with unlimited storage of their photos, Collections and projects at no cost to the customer. Customers can also order a copy of their photos on a CD or DVD for an extra fee. Marketing, Advertising and Promotion We use a variety of integrated marketing programs, including advertising, direct marketing technologies, channels, methods and strategic alliances to attract and retain our customers. These methods include direct marketing over the Internet, e-mail marketing to prospects and existing customers, search engine marketing, and traditional direct marketing mailings such as postcards and seasonal catalogs. In addition, because many of our products are either shared via the Internet or given as gifts, the appearance of our brand on the products and packaging provides ongoing distribution as well as viral advertising. We place advertisements that cater to women and families on websites and in publications, contract for targeted e-mail marketing services and contract for advertising placement on leading search engines. We also maintain an affiliate program under which we pay program participants for referral sales generated from hyperlinks to our website from the affiliate’s website and in promotional materials. We maintain strategic alliances with complementary e-commerce companies. For example, we are the sole photo services provider to Amazon.com’s customers. We have other co-marketing and promotion arrangements with companies such as eTeamz, a leading website resource for parents, coaches and sports league administrators. We also sponsor and manage photo contests as a turn-key offering for major corporations. In 2006, we conducted photo contests for 1-800-Flowers.com, Home Shopping Network, and Procter & Gamble. These corporations promote the photo contests to their own customers, which in turn introduces new users to Shutterfly. In addition, from time to time we create co-branded versions of our website. In general, these arrangements involve payment of a commission to or revenue sharing with these companies for sales of our products and services generated through these websites. Technology and Production Systems We use a combination of proprietary and third-party technology, including the following: Customer relationship management, or CRM, system. Our integrated CRM system is comprised of various sophisticated tools designed to convert first-time customers into repeat buyers. We seek to increase average order sizes by expanding customer awareness, providing targeted, segmented offers to customers and encouraging cross- and up-selling. The system uses a variety of data, including website usage patterns, order size, order frequency, products purchased, seasonality factors, image upload and share usage, as well as customer satisfaction information. This data is continually updated and refreshed in a data warehouse, from 9 Table of Contents which different customer segments are identified and modified on a continuing basis for targeted marketing communications. By using this deep customer intelligence and ongoing analysis, we are able to offer customers a more personalized website experience and to target them with specific website promotions, discounts, specialized e-mail and direct mail offers. Our promotion engine generates special offers that are account specific and applied automatically at checkout. This enables us to run multiple offers at any given time that are targeted to specific customer profiles. We are also able to dynamically assign visitors to test and control groups who are shown different versions of our service. This testing enables us to continuously optimize products, pricing, promotions and user interaction with our website. We are able to run multiple tests at once, which enables us to rapidly launch new products and services and enhances our financial results. Website system. Our website powers our service and e-commerce functionality. We have designed our user interface to be simple, uncluttered and inviting. There are only five navigational “tabs” that correspond to the primary activities offered by the website — Add Pictures, View & Enhance, Share Online, Order Prints and Shutterfly Store, which includes personalized product creation. We have designed our website system to be highly available, secure and cost-effective. We can scale to increasing numbers of customers by adding relatively inexpensive industry-standard computers and servers. We have a strong commitment to our privacy policy, and we utilize technologies such as firewalls, encryption technology for secure transmission of personal information between customers’ computers and our website system and intrusion detection systems to ensure compliance with that policy. Image archive. We store our customers’ images in our image archive. Once a customer uploads a photo to our website, it is copied to multiple redundant systems, including an off-site copy. At present, our image storage capacity is hundreds of terabytes. We continue to expand our storage capacity to meet increasing customer demand. Our innovative storage architecture provides extremely low storage costs, facilitates the safe, secure archiving of customers’ images and delivers the speed and performance required to enable customers to access, enhance and edit their images in real-time. When we store and archive a customer’s image, we do not alter the original image (for example, we do not reduce the data file size), which preserves the quality and integrity of the image. This also lets customers enhance the image using a duplicate, while giving them the ability to recall the original at any time. Render farm. Once a customer orders a photo or any photo-based product or photo-based merchandise, the render farm performs fully automated image processing on the image prior to production. The customer’s original uploaded image is retrieved from the image archive, and automatic algorithms enhance the color, contrast and sharpness of the image. The render farm also performs customer-requested edits such as crop, borders, customized back-printing and red-eye removal. To ensure that output is of consistent quality, we apply our proprietary ColorSure technology during this render stage. ColorSure creates an automated mapping of the image’s specific attributes to the printer’s specific print calibrations and attributes, at which time the rendered image is scheduled for production. For example, this allows a photo that is printed on a 4x6 print to look the same as a photo printed on an enlargement or in a photo book, even if they are ordered at separate times. Production system. We operate our own production facility in Hayward, California, which we believe is one of the largest all-digital labs in the world. Our automated production system controls our bar code-driven production processes, including order management and pick, pack and ship operations. Using complex algorithms, the production system analyzes tens of thousands of orders daily and automates the workflow into our high-volume silver halide photofinishing machines and our state-of-the-art digital offset presses. 10 Table of Contents Competition The market for digital photography products and services is large, evolving and intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. We face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: • online digital photography services companies such as Kodak EasyShare Gallery (formerly known as Ofoto), Snapfish, which is a service of Hewlett-Packard, Sony’s ImageStation and others; • “Big Box” retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco and others that are seeking to offer low cost digital photography products and services. These competitors provide in-store fulfillment and self-service kiosks for printing, which may, among other strategies, offer their customers heavily discounted in-store products and services that compete directly with our offerings; • drug stores such as Walgreens, CVS and others that offer in-store pick-up from Internet orders; • regional photography companies such as Wolf Camera and Ritz Camera that have established brands and customer bases in existing photography markets; • Internet portals and search engines such as Yahoo!, AOL, Google and CNET that offer broad-reaching digital photography and related products and services to their large user bases; • home printing service providers such as Hewlett-Packard, Epson and Canon, that are seeking to expand their printer and ink businesses by gaining market share in the emerging digital photography marketplace; and • photo-related software companies such as Adobe, Apple, Microsoft, Corel and others. We believe the primary competitive factors in attracting and retaining customers are: • brand recognition and trust; • quality of products and services; • breadth of products and services; • user affinity and loyalty; • customer service; • ease of use; • convenience; and • price. We believe that we compete favorably with respect to many of these factors, particularly customer trust and loyalty, quality and breadth of products and services, and customer service. None of our competitors offers a comparable value proposition, trusted brand or singular focus on customers. Many of our competitors promote their products on the basis of low prices or the convenience of same-day availability for digital photos printed in drugstores or other retail outlets. As a general matter, we currently plan to distinguish ourselves from such competitors principally on the basis of product quality and innovation, rather than price or same-day delivery. The level of competition in our industry is likely to increase as current competitors improve their offerings and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. These competitors have or could develop a variety of competitive advantages over us, including significantly longer operating histories; larger and broader customer bases; greater brand recognition; greater financial, research and development and distribution resources; and greater ability to acquire, invest in or partner with traditional and online competitors. Well-funded new entrants may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. 11 Table of Contents Intellectual Property Protecting our intellectual property rights is part of our strategy for continued growth and competitive differentiation. We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of patent, copyright, trade secret and trademark law. We enter into confidentiality and proprietary rights agreements with our employees, consultants and business partners, and control access to and distribution of our proprietary information. As of December 31, 2006, we had 15 issued patents, which expire at various dates between November 2019 and May 2025, and more than 30 patent applications pending in the United States. Our issued patents and patent applications relate generally to the user interface for our website, our computer network infrastructure and software, personalized photo-related products and automated workflow and digital printing. We intend to pursue corresponding patent coverage in additional countries to the extent we believe such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. However, we cannot be certain that any of our pending or any future applications will be granted. In addition, third parties could bring invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. We have in the past received claims, and in the future a third party may claim, that we have infringed its patent rights. This can result in litigation and/or require us to enter into a license agreement with a third party. For example, effective May 1, 2005, Shutterfly entered into a settlement and license agreement to resolve litigation with respect to alleged infringement of certain processes under U.S. patents relating to uploading, storing, sharing, accessing, downloading and/or requesting or obtaining digital images or prints of digital images or merchandise to which such images are applied. Under the terms of the agreement, Shutterfly paid $2.0 million for a license to certain patents, including a non-exclusive, fully-paid up, royalty-free, worldwide license to the patents underlying the litigation, and a mutual release of claims. Our primary brand is “Shutterfly.” We hold registrations for the Shutterfly service mark in our major markets of the United States and Canada, as well as in the European Community, Mexico, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. We also hold “Shutterfly.com” Internet domain registrations in the United States, Mexico, Australia and New Zealand, and a “Shutterfly and Design” trademark, “Shutterfly Express”, “Shutterfly Collections” and “Postcards by Shutterfly” service mark registrations in the United States. An additional application for the Shutterfly mark is pending in Brazil. We also hold a registration for the “VividPics” service mark in the United States and Mexico, and have pending applications for additional marks, including “Shutterfly Studio”, a “Shutterfly Studio and Design” trademark, “Your pictures and more”, “Marking it personal”, and “Memory Vault”. These brand registrations are a critical component of our marketing programs. If we lose the ability to use our Shutterfly mark in a particular country or our domain name, we could be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country or elect not to sell products in that country. In addition, regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights could change in ways that block or interfere with our ability to use our current brand and to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Shutterfly in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Government Regulation The legal environment of the Internet is evolving rapidly in the United States and elsewhere. The manner in which existing laws and regulations will be applied to the Internet in general, and how they will relate to our business in particular, is unclear in many cases. Accordingly, we often cannot be certain how existing laws will apply in the online context, including with respect to such topics as privacy, defamation, pricing, credit card fraud, advertising, taxation, sweepstakes, promotions, content regulation, quality of products and services and intellectual property ownership and infringement. In particular, laws relating to the liability of providers of online services for activities of their users are currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Numerous laws have been adopted at the national and state level in the United States that could have an impact on our business. These laws include the following: • The CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 and similar laws adopted by a number of states. These laws are intended to regulate unsolicited commercial e-mails, create criminal penalties for unmarked sexually-oriented material and e-mails containing fraudulent headers and control other abusive online marketing practices. 12 Table of Contents • The Communications Decency Act, which gives statutory protection to online service providers who distribute third-party content. • The Digital Millennium Copyright Act, which is intended to reduce the liability of online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. • The Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act and the Prosecutorial Remedies and Other Tools to End Exploitation of Children Today Act of 2003, which are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. • Statutes adopted in the State of California require online services to report certain breaches of the security of personal data, and to report to California consumers when their personal data might be disclosed to direct marketers. To resolve some of the remaining legal uncertainty, we expect new laws and regulations to be adopted over time that will be directly applicable to the Internet and to our activities. Any existing or new legislation applicable to Shutterfly could expose us to substantial liability, including significant expenses necessary to comply with such laws and regulations, and could dampen the growth in the use of the Internet in general. We post on our website our privacy policies and practices concerning the use and disclosure of user data. Any failure by us to comply with our posted privacy policies, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings by governmental or regulatory bodies that could potentially harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. In this regard, there are a large number of legislative proposals before the United States Congress and various state legislative bodies regarding privacy issues related to our business. It is not possible to predict whether or when such legislation may be adopted, and certain proposals, if adopted, could harm our business through a decrease in user registrations and revenues. These decreases could be caused by, among other possible provisions, the required use of disclaimers or other requirements before users can utilize our services. Due to the global nature of the Internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate its transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. Any such developments could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. We may be subject to legal liability for our online services. The law relating to the liability of providers of these online services for activities of their users is currently unsettled both within the United States and abroad. Claims may be threatened against us for aiding and abetting, defamation, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of information to which we provide links or that may be posted online. Employees As of December 31, 2006, we had 275 full time employees. Approximately 79 employees were engaged in engineering, 101 in photo lab operations, 39 in sales and marketing, 16 in customer service and 40 in general and administrative functions. During the peak holiday season, we obtain contract workers on a temporary basis from third-party outsourcing firms. For example, during our peak production day in the fourth quarter of 2006, we used more than 800 of these temporary workers to assist in our production and fulfillment operations during high-demand periods. None of our employees is represented by a labor union or is covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We have never experienced any employment-related work stoppages and consider our employee relations to be good. Available Information Our Internet website is located at http://www.shutterfly.com. The information on our website is not a part of this annual report. We make available free of charge on our website our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to 13 Table of Contents Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of our Internet website. The public may also read and copy any materials we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the Securities and Exchange Commission’s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Securities and Exchange Commission also maintains an Internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Securities and Exchange Commission’s Internet website is located at http://www.sec.gov. ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. Our net revenues, operating results and cash requirements are affected by the seasonal nature of our business. Our business is highly seasonal, with a high proportion of our net revenues, net income and operating cash flows generated during the fourth quarter. For example, we generated approximately 53% of our net revenues for 2006 in the fourth quarter of 2006, and the net income that we generated during the fourth quarter of 2006 was necessary for us to achieve profitability on an annual basis for 2006. In addition, we incur significant additional expenses in the period leading up to the fourth quarter holiday season in anticipation of higher sales volume in that period, including expenses related to the hiring and training of temporary workers to meet our seasonal needs, additional inventory and equipment purchases and increased advertising. If we are unable to accurately forecast and respond to consumer demand for our products during the fourth quarter, our financial results, reputation and brand will suffer and the market price of our common stock would likely decline. In addition, we base our operating expense budgets on expected revenue trends. A portion of our expenses, such as office leases and various personnel costs, are fixed and are based on our expectations of our peak levels of operations. We may be unable to adjust spending quickly enough to offset any unexpected revenue shortfall. Accordingly, any shortfall in revenues may cause significant variation in operating results in any quarter. Our limited operating history makes it difficult to assess the exact impact of the seasonal factors on our business or whether our business is susceptible to cyclical fluctuations in the U.S. economy. In addition, our rapid growth may have overshadowed whatever seasonal or cyclical factors might have influenced our business to date. Seasonal or cyclical variations in our business may become more pronounced over time and may harm our results of operations in the future. If we are unable to meet our seasonal production requirements, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed. We face significant production risks, particularly at peak holiday seasons, including the risks of obtaining and hiring sufficient qualified seasonal production personnel. A majority of our workforce during the fourth quarter of 2006 was seasonal, temporary personnel. We have had difficulties in the past finding a sufficient number of qualified seasonal employees. We believe that we must significantly grow our current production capability to meet our projected revenue targets and, to date, have not yet identified or built out locations for the additional production capacity we expect to need beginning in 2007. We expect to invest between $25 million and $29 million in capital expenditures in 2007. Our inability to meet our seasonal production requirements could lead to customer dissatisfaction and reduced net revenues. Moreover, if the costs of meeting production requirements were to increase, our results of operations would be harmed. 14 Table of Contents Our quarterly financial results may fluctuate, which may lead to volatility in our stock price. Our future revenues and operating results may vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. Factors that could cause our quarterly operating results to fluctuate include: • demand for our products and services, including seasonal demand; • our pricing and marketing strategies and those of our competitors; • our ability to attract visitors to our website and convert those visitors into customers; • our ability to retain customers and encourage repeat purchases, particularly our high-volume customers from whom we derive a high proportion of our net revenues; • our ability to sustain our profit margins, particularly our ability to sell to consumers additional photo-based products such as photo books, calendars and cards; • the costs of customer acquisition; • our ability to manage our production and fulfillment operations; • the costs to produce our prints and photo-based products and merchandise and to provide our services; • the costs of expanding or enhancing our technology or website; • a significant increase in credits, beyond our estimated allowances, for customers who are not satisfied with our products; • declines or disruptions to the travel industry; • variations in weather, particularly heavy rain and snow which tend to depress travel and picture taking; • the timing of holidays, particularly Easter; • volatility in our stock price, which may lead to higher stock-based compensation expense under newly adopted accounting standards; • consumer preferences for digital photography services; and • improvements to the quality, cost and convenience of desktop printing of digital pictures and products. Based on the factors cited above, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not a good indication of our future performance. It is possible that in one or more future quarters, our operating results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock may decline. We have incurred operating losses in the past and may not be able to sustain profitability in the future. Recent accounting changes may make it more difficult for us to sustain profitability. We have periodically experienced operating losses since our inception in 1999, and we make investments in our business that generally result in operating losses in each of the first three quarters of our fiscal year to enable us to generate net income during the fourth quarter. This net income is necessary for us to achieve profitability on an annual basis. If we are unable to produce our products and provide our services at commercially reasonable costs, if revenues decline or if our expenses exceed our expectations, we may not be able to sustain or increase profitability on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, as a publicly-traded company, we are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which will soon require that our internal controls and procedures be compliant with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which we expect to be costly and could impact our results of operations in future periods. In addition, the Financial Accounting Standards Board now requires us to follow Statement No. 123 (revised 2004), “Share Based Payment,” or SFAS No. 123R. Under SFAS No. 123R, companies must calculate and record in their statement of operations the cost of equity instruments, such as stock options or restricted stock, awarded to employees for services received beginning in the first quarter of the 2006 fiscal year. We expect that we will 15 Table of Contents continue to use stock options to attract, incentivize and retain our employees and will therefore incur the resulting stock-based compensation expense, which will continue to adversely affect our operating results in future periods. We have a limited operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our business and prospects. Our company was formed in April 1999, and we have only a limited operating history on which investors can base an evaluation of our business and prospects. As an e-commerce company in the early stage of development, we face increased risks, uncertainties, expenses and difficulties. To address these risks and uncertainties, we must do the following: • maintain and increase our number of customers; • maintain and enhance our brand; • maintain and grow our website and customer operations; • enhance and expand our products and services; • successfully execute our business and marketing strategy; • continue to develop and upgrade our technology and information processing systems; • continue to enhance our service to meet the needs of a changing market; • provide superior customer service; • respond to competitive developments; and • attract, integrate, retain and motivate qualified personnel. We may be unable to accomplish one or more of these things, which could cause our business to suffer. In addition, accomplishing one or more of these things might be very expensive, which could harm our financial results. If we are not able to reliably meet our data storage and management requirements, customer satisfaction and our reputation could be harmed. As a part of our current business model, we offer our customers free unlimited online storage and sharing of photographs and, as a result, must store and manage hundreds of terabytes of data. This results in immense system requirements and substantial ongoing technological challenges, both of which are expected to continue to increase over time. If we are not able to reliably meet these data storage and management requirements, we could have disruptions in services which could impair customer satisfaction and our reputation and lead to reduced net revenues and increased expenses. Moreover, if the cost of meeting these data storage and management requirements exceeds or expectations, our results of operations would be harmed. Our data storage system could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, our primary storage facilities are located near a major fault line, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm our data storage system. If we experience disruption to our redundant systems located at our data storage center, such disruption could result in the deletion or corruption of customer stored images. For example, recently we experienced a loss of a small number of customer images due to an isolated server failure. We identified the cause of this isolated server failure and addressed it. We have also implemented new additional procedures for our multiple backup systems. Interruptions to our website, information technology systems, print production processes or customer service operations could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. The satisfactory performance, reliability and availability of our website, information technology systems, printing production processes and customer service operations are critical to our reputation, and our ability to attract 16 Table of Contents and retain customers and to maintain adequate customer satisfaction. We currently conduct scheduled software releases and periodic site maintenance several times a quarter that require us to take the website down. The scheduled down times are planned at non-peak hours, typically at midnight. Any interruptions that result in the unavailability of our website or reduced order fulfillment performance or customer service could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and cause our business and results of operations to suffer. This risk is heightened in the fourth quarter, as we experience significantly increased traffic to our website during the holiday season, and any interruption that occurs during such time would have a disproportionate impact than if it occurred during a different quarter. Because we depend in part on third parties for the implementation and maintenance of certain aspects of our communications and printing systems, and because many of the causes of system interruptions or interruptions in the production process may be outside of our control, we may not be able to remedy such interruptions in a timely manner, or at all. Our business interruption insurance policies do not address all potential causes of business interruptions that we may experience, and any proceeds we may receive from these policies in the event of a business interruption may not fully compensate us for the revenues we may lose. We may have difficulty managing our growth and expanding our operations successfully. We have grown from 190 employees as of January 1, 2006 to 275 employees as of December 31, 2006, with website operations, offices and customer support centers in Redwood City, California and a production facility in Hayward, California. Our growth has placed, and will continue to place, a strain on our administrative and operational infrastructure. To alleviate this strain we have announced that we are opening a new manufacturing and production plant in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is planned to be operational by the fourth quarter 2007. Our ability to manage our operations and growth will require us to continue to refine our operational, financial and management controls, human resource policies and reporting systems. If we are unable to manage future expansion, we may not be able to implement improvements to our controls, policies and systems in an efficient or timely manner and may discover deficiencies in existing systems and controls. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience could be compromised, which would damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Competitive pricing pressures, particularly with respect to 4×6 print pricing and shipping, may harm our business and results of operations. Demand for our products and services is sensitive to price. Many external factors, including our production and personnel costs and our competitors’ pricing and marketing strategies, can significantly impact our pricing strategies. If we fail to meet our customers’ price expectations, we could lose customers, which would harm our business and results of operations. Changes in our pricing strategies have had, and may continue to have, a significant impact on our net revenues and net income. For example, in the second quarter of 2005, certain of our competitors reduced the list prices of their 4×6 prints from $0.29 to $0.12. In response, we lowered the list price of our 4×6 prints from $0.29 to $0.19 in order to remain competitive. A drop in our 4×6 prices, due to competitive pressures or otherwise, without a corresponding increase in volume would negatively impact our net revenues and could adversely affect our gross margins. In addition, we generate a significant portion of our net revenues from the fees we collect from shipping our products. For example, these fees represented approximately 19% of our net revenues in 2005 and approximately 20% of our net revenues in 2006. We believe that these results are consistent with our seasonal historical trends. Many online businesses, including Shutterfly, offer discounted or free shipping during promotional periods and usually based upon a minimum purchase requirement as a means of attracting or retaining customers. In the event that free shipping offers extend beyond a limited number of occasions, are not based upon a minimum purchase requirement and become commonplace, our net revenues and results of operations would be negatively impacted. In addition, many online businesses, including Shutterfly, make offers for free or discounted products and services to attract and retain customers. In the future, if we increase these offers to respond to actions taken by our competitors, our results of operations may be harmed. 17 Table of Contents We face intense competition from a range of competitors and may be unsuccessful in competing against current and future competitors. The digital photography products and services industries are intensely competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future as current competitors improve their offerings and as new participants enter the market or as industry consolidation further develops. Competition may result in pricing pressures, reduced profit margins or loss of market share, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We face intense competition from a wide range of companies, including the following: • online digital photography services companies such as Kodak EasyShare Gallery (formerly known as Ofoto), Snapfish, which is a service of Hewlett-Packard, Sony’s ImageStation and others; • “Big Box” retailers such as Wal-Mart, Costco and others that are seeking to offer low cost digital photography products and services, such as in-store fulfillment and self-service kiosks for printing, and that may, among other strategies, offer their customers heavily discounted in-store products and services that compete directly with our offerings; • drug stores such as Walgreens, CVS and others that offer in-store pick-up from Internet orders; • regional photography companies such as Wolf Camera and Ritz Camera that have established brands and customer bases in existing photography markets; • internet portals and search engines such as Yahoo!, AOL, Google and CNET that offer broad-reaching digital photography and related products and services to their large user bases; • home printing service providers such as Hewlett-Packard, Epson and Canon, that are seeking to expand their printer and ink businesses by gaining market share in the emerging digital photography marketplace; and • photo-related software companies such as Adobe, Apple, Microsoft, Corel and others. Many of our competitors have significantly longer operating histories, larger and broader customer bases, greater brand and name recognition and greater financial, research and development and distribution resources than we do. The numerous choices for digital photography services can cause confusion for consumers, and may cause them to select a competitor with greater name recognition. Some competitors are able to devote substantially more resources to website and systems development, or to investments or partnerships with traditional and online competitors. Competitors that are well funded (particularly new entrants) may choose to prioritize growing their market share and brand awareness instead of profitability. Competitors and new entrants in the digital photography products and services industries may develop new products, technologies or capabilities that could render obsolete or less competitive many of the products, services and content that we offer. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors, and competitive pressures could harm our business and prospects. If we are unable to adequately control the costs associated with operating our business, our results of operations will suffer. The primary costs in operating our business are related to producing prints, shipping products, acquiring customers and compensating our personnel, and if we are unable to keep these costs aligned with the level of revenues that we generate, our results of operations would be harmed. The challenge in controlling our business costs is made more difficult by the fact that many of the factors that impact these costs are beyond our control. For example, the costs to produce prints, such as the costs of photographic print paper, could increase due to a shortage of silver or an increase in worldwide energy prices. In addition, we may become subject to increased costs by the third-party shippers that deliver our products to our customers, and we may be unable to pass along any increases in shipping costs to our customers. The costs of online advertising and keyword search could also increase significantly due to increased competition, which would increase our customer acquisition costs. 18 Table of Contents The loss of key personnel and an inability to attract and retain additional personnel could affect our ability to successfully grow our business. We are highly dependent upon the continued service and performance of our senior management team and key technical, marketing and production personnel. The loss of these key employees, each of whom is “at will” and may terminate his or her employment relationship with us at any time, may significantly delay or prevent the achievement of our business objectives. We believe that our future success will also depend in part on our continued ability to identify, hire, train and motivate qualified personnel. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous technology, marketing, financial services, manufacturing and e-commerce companies. In addition, competition for qualified personnel is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. We may be unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing operational and managerial requirements, or may be required to pay increased compensation in order to do so, and our failure to attract and retain qualified personnel could impair our ability to implement our business plan. If we are unable to attract customers in a cost-effective manner, or if we were to become subject to e-mail blacklisting, traffic to our website would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our success depends on our ability to attract customers in a cost-effective manner. We rely on a variety of methods to bring visitors to our website and promote our products, including the payment of fees to third parties who drive new customers to our website, purchased search results from online search engines, e-mail and direct mail. We pay providers of online services, search engines, directories and other website and e-commerce businesses to provide content, advertising banners and other links that direct customers to our website. We also use e-mail and direct mail to offer free products and services as a means of attracting customers, and offer substantial pricing discounts as a means of encouraging repeat purchases. Our methods of attracting customers can involve substantial costs, regardless of whether we acquire new customers. Even if we are successful in acquiring and retaining customers, the cost involved in these efforts may negatively impact our results of operations. If we are unable to enhance or maintain the methods we use to reach consumers, the costs of attracting customers using these methods significantly increase, or we are unable to develop new cost-effective means to obtain customers, our ability to attract new customers would be harmed, traffic to our website would be reduced and our business and results of operations would be harmed. In addition, various private entities attempt to regulate the use of e-mail for commercial solicitation. These entities often advocate standards of conduct or practice that significantly exceed current legal requirements and classify certain e-mail solicitations that comply with current legal requirements as unsolicited bulk e-mails, or “spam.” Some of these entities maintain blacklists of companies and individuals, and the websites, Internet service providers and Internet protocol addresses associated with those entities or individuals that do not adhere to what the blacklisting entity believes are appropriate standards of conduct or practices for commercial e-mail solicitations. If a company’s Internet protocol addresses are listed by a blacklisting entity, e-mails sent from those addresses may be blocked if they are sent to any Internet domain or Internet address that subscribes to the blacklisting entity’s service or purchases its blacklist. If we become subject to blacklisting, it could impair our ability to market our products and services, communicate with our customers and otherwise operate our business. We may not succeed in promoting, strengthening and continuing to establish the Shutterfly brand, which would prevent us from acquiring new customers and increasing revenues. A component of our business strategy is the continued promotion and strengthening of the Shutterfly brand. Due to the competitive nature of the digital photography products and services markets, if we are unable to successfully promote the Shutterfly brand, we may fail to substantially increase our net revenues. Customer awareness of, and the perceived value of, our brand will depend largely on the success of our marketing efforts and our ability to provide a consistent, high-quality customer experience. To promote our brand, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial expense related to advertising and other marketing efforts. Our ability to provide a high-quality customer experience also depends, in large part, on external factors over which we may have little or no control, including the reliability and performance of our suppliers and third-party 19 Table of Contents Internet and communication infrastructure providers. For example, some of our products, such as select photo-based merchandise, are produced and shipped to customers by our third-party vendors, and we rely on these vendors to properly inspect and ship these products. In addition, we rely on third-party shippers, including the U.S. Postal Service and United Parcel Service, to deliver our products to customers. Strikes or other service interruptions affecting these shippers could impair our ability to deliver merchandise on a timely basis. Our products are also subject to damage during delivery and handling by our third-party shippers. Our failure to provide customers with high-quality products in a timely manner for any reason could substantially harm our reputation and our efforts to develop Shutterfly as a trusted brand. The failure of our brand promotion activities could adversely affect our ability to attract new customers and maintain customer relationships, and, as a result, substantially harm our business and results of operations. The success of our business depends on continued consumer adoption of digital photography. Our growth is highly dependent upon the continued adoption by consumers of digital photography. The digital photography market is rapidly evolving, characterized by changing technologies, intense price competition, additional competitors, evolving industry standards, frequent new service announcements and changing consumer demands and behaviors. To the extent that consumer adoption of digital photography does not continue to grow as expected, our revenue growth would likely suffer. Moreover, we face significant risks that, if the market for digital photography evolves in ways that we are not able to address due to changing technologies or consumer behaviors, pricing pressures, or otherwise, our current products and services may become unattractive, which would likely result in the loss of customers and a decline in net revenues and/or increased expenses. Purchasers of digital photography products and services may not choose to shop online, which would harm our net revenues and results of operations. The online market for digital photography products and services is less developed than the online market for other consumer products. If this market does not gain widespread acceptance, our business may suffer. Our success will depend in part on our ability to attract customers who have historically used traditional retail photography services or who have produced photographs and other products using self-service alternatives, such as printing at home. Furthermore, we may have to incur significantly higher and more sustained advertising and promotional expenditures or reduce the prices of our products and services in order to attract additional online consumers to our website and convert them into purchasing customers. Specific factors that could prevent prospective customers from purchasing from us include: • the inability to physically handle and examine product samples; • delivery time associated with Internet orders; • concerns about the security of online transactions and the privacy of personal information; • delayed shipments or shipments of incorrect or damaged products; and • inconvenience associated with returning or exchanging purchased items. If purchasers of digital photography products and services do not choose to shop online, our net revenues and results of operations would be harmed. If affordable broadband access does not become widely available to consumers, our revenue growth will likely suffer. Because our business currently involves consumers uploading and downloading large data files, we are highly dependent upon the availability of affordable broadband access to consumers. Many areas of the country still do not have broadband access, and the cost of broadband access may be too expensive for many potential customers. To the extent that broadband access is not available or not adopted by consumers due to cost, our revenue growth would likely suffer. If the single facility where substantially all of our computer and communications hardware is located fails or if our production facility fails, our business and results of operations would be harmed. Our ability to successfully receive and fulfill orders and to provide high-quality customer service depends in part on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. Substantially all of the 20 Table of Contents computer hardware necessary to operate our website is located at a single third-party hosting facility in Santa Clara, California, and our production facility is in Hayward, California. We are opening a new manufacturing and production plant in Charlotte, North Carolina, which is planned to be operational by the fourth quarter 2007. Our systems and operations could suffer damage or interruption from human error, fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failure, break-ins, terrorist attacks, acts of war and similar events. In addition, Hayward is located on, and Sunnyvale is located near, a major fault line, increasing our susceptibility to the risk that an earthquake could significantly harm the operations of these facilities. We do not presently have redundant systems in multiple locations, and our business interruption insurance may be insufficient to compensate us for losses that may occur. In addition, the impact of any of these disasters on our business may be exacerbated by the fact that we are still in the process of developing our formal disaster recovery plan and we do not have a final plan currently in place. Capacity constraints and system failures could prevent access to our website, which could harm our reputation and negatively affect our net revenues. Our business requires that we have adequate capacity in our computer systems to cope with the high volume of visits to our website. As our operations grow in size and scope, we will need to improve and upgrade our computer systems and network infrastructure in the ordinary course of business to offer customers enhanced and new products, services, capacity, features and functionality. The expansion of our systems and infrastructure may require us to commit substantial financial, operational and technical resources before the volume of our business increases, with no assurance that our net revenues will increase. Our ability to provide high-quality products and service depends on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of our computer and communications systems. If our systems cannot be expanded in a timely manner to cope with increased website traffic, we could experience disruptions in service, slower response times, lower customer satisfaction, and delays in the introduction of new products and services. Any of these problems could harm our reputation and cause our net revenues to decline. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults that could result in decreased production, limited capacity or reduced demand. Our technology, infrastructure and processes may contain undetected errors or design faults. These errors or design faults may cause our website to fail and result in loss of, or delay in, market acceptance of our products and services. If we experience a delay in a website release that results in customer dissatisfaction during the period required to correct errors and design faults, we would lose revenue. In the future, we may encounter scalability limitations, in current or future technology releases, or delays in the commercial release of any future version of our technology, infrastructure and processes that could seriously harm our business. We currently depend on third party suppliers for our photographic print paper, printing machines and other supplies, which exposes us to risks if these suppliers fail to perform under our agreements with them. We have historically relied on an exclusive supply relationship with Fuji Photo Film U.S.A. to supply all of our photographic paper for silver halide print production, such as 4×6 prints. We have an agreement with Fuji that expires in September 2007, but if Fuji fails to perform in accordance with the terms of our agreement and if we are unable to secure a paper supply from a different source in a timely manner, we would likely fail to meet customer expectations, which could result in negative publicity, damage our reputation and brand and harm our business and results of operations. We also purchase other photo-based supplies from third parties on a purchase order basis, and, as a result, these parties could increase their prices, reallocate supply to others, including our competitors, or choose to terminate their relationship with us. In addition, we purchase or rent the machines used to produce certain of our photo-based products from Hewlett-Packard, which is one of our primary competitors in the area of online digital photography services, and this competition may influence their willingness to provide us with additional products or services. If we were required to switch vendors of machines for photo-based products, we may incur incremental costs, which could harm our operating results. 21 Table of Contents If we are unable to develop, market and sell new products and services that address additional market opportunities, our results of operations may suffer. In addition, we may need to expand beyond our current customer demographic to grow our business. Although historically we have focused our business on consumer markets for silver halide prints, such as 4×6 prints, and photo-based products, such as photo books and calendars, we intend to address, and demand may shift to, expanding into new products and services. In addition, we believe we may need to address additional markets and expand our customer demographic in order to further grow our business. We may not successfully expand our existing services or create new products and services, address new market segments or develop a significantly broader customer base. Any failure to address additional market opportunities could result in loss of market share, which would harm our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We may need to raise additional capital that may be required to grow our business, and we may not be able to raise capital on terms acceptable to us or at all. The operation of our business and growth efforts will require significant cash outlays and advance capital equipment expenditures and commitments. If cash on hand and cash generated from operations are not sufficient to meet our cash requirements, we will need to seek additional capital, potentially through debt or equity financings, to fund our growth. We cannot assure you that we will be able to raise needed cash on terms acceptable to us or at all. Financings may be on terms that are dilutive or potentially dilutive to our stockholders. The holders of new securities may also have rights, preferences or privileges which are senior to those of existing holders of common stock. If new sources of financing are required, but are insufficient or unavailable, we will be required to modify our growth and operating plans to the extent of available funding, which would harm our ability to grow our business. We may undertake acquisitions to expand our business, which may pose risks to our business and dilute the ownership of our existing stockholders. A key component of our business strategy includes strengthening our competitive position and refining the customer experience on our website through internal development. However, from time to time, we may selectively pursue acquisitions of businesses, technologies or services. Integrating any newly acquired businesses, technologies or services is likely to be expensive and time consuming. To finance any acquisitions, it may be necessary for us to raise additional funds through public or private financings. Additional funds may not be available on terms that are favorable to us, and, in the case of equity financings, would result in dilution to our stockholders. If we do complete any acquisitions, we may be unable to operate the acquired businesses profitably or otherwise implement our strategy successfully. If we are unable to integrate any newly acquired entities, technologies or services effectively, our business and results of operations will suffer. The time and expense associated with finding suitable and compatible businesses, technologies or services could also disrupt our ongoing business and divert our management’s attention. Future acquisitions by us could also result in large and immediate write-offs or assumptions of debt and contingent liabilities, any of which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers, and any declines or disruptions in the travel industry could harm our business. Because vacation and other travel is one of the primary occasions in which our customers utilize their digital cameras, our net revenues and results of operations are affected by the level of vacation and other travel by our customers. Accordingly, downturns or weaknesses in the travel industry could harm our business. Travel expenditures are sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels and tend to decline during general economic downturns. Events or weakness in the travel industry that could negatively affect the travel industry include price escalation in the airline industry or other travel-related industries, airline or other travel related strikes, safety concerns, including terrorist activities, inclement weather and airline bankruptcies or liquidations. In addition, high gasoline prices may lead to reduced travel in the United States. Any decrease in vacation or travel could harm our net revenues and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents If we fail to develop and maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, we may be unable to timely and accurately record, process and report financial data, fail to meet our periodic reporting obligations or have material misstatements in our financial statements. These events could lead to a decline in our stock price. In connection with the audit of our 2005 consolidated financial statements for the year ended and as of December 31, 2005 and the review of our 2006 quarterly financial statements for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, our independent registered public accounting firm identified three control deficiencies that represented material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting. Specifically, we did not maintain effective controls to ensure adequate analysis, documentation, reconciliation and review of accounting records and supporting data, we did not maintain effective controls over the completeness and accuracy of revenue and deferred revenue to prevent our personnel from reinstating expired prepaid print plans, and we did not maintain effective controls over the accounting for income taxes, including the completeness and accuracy of our deferred income tax assets and liabilities and the related provision for income taxes. As of December 31, 2006, we had remediated the previously disclosed material weaknesses. However, we can give no assurance that further material weaknesses will not be identified in the future. If further material weaknesses in our internal control are identified, this could cause our investors to lose confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, leading to a decline in our stock price. Failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We rely on a combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright law and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. These protective measures afford only limited protection. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our website features and functionalities or to obtain and use information that we consider proprietary, such as the technology used to operate our website, our production operations and our trademarks. As of December 31, 2006, we had 15 patents issued and more than 30 patent applications pending in the United States. We intend to pursue corresponding patent coverage in other countries to the extent we believe such coverage is appropriate and cost efficient. We cannot ensure that any of our pending applications will be granted. In addition, third parties could bring infringement, invalidity, co-inventorship or similar claims with respect to any of our currently issued patents or any patents that may be issued to us in the future. Any such claims, whether or not successful, could be extremely costly, could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our primary brand is “Shutterfly.” We hold registrations for the Shutterfly service mark in our major markets of the United States and Canada, as well as in the European Community, Mexico, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. An additional application for the Shutterfly mark is pending in Brazil. Our competitors may adopt names similar to ours, thereby impeding our ability to build brand identity and possibly leading to customer confusion. In addition, there could be potential trade name or trademark infringement claims brought by owners of marks that are similar to Shutterfly or one of our other marks. Any claims or customer confusion related to our marks could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. If we become involved in intellectual property litigation or other proceedings related to a determination of rights, we could incur substantial costs, expenses or liability, lose our exclusive rights or be required to stop certain of our business activities. Third parties may sue us for infringing its intellectual property rights. In addition, we have in the past received claims, and in the future a third party may claim, that we have improperly obtained or used its confidential or proprietary information. Likewise, we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights or to determine the scope and validity of third-party proprietary rights. The cost to us of any litigation or other proceeding relating to intellectual property rights, whether or not initiated by us and even if resolved in our favor, could be substantial, and the litigation would divert our management’s efforts from growing our business. Some of our competitors may be able to sustain the costs of complex intellectual property litigation more effectively than we can because they have substantially greater 23 Table of Contents resources. Uncertainties resulting from the initiation and continuation of any litigation could limit our ability to continue our operations. Alternatively, we may be required to, or decide to, enter into a license with a third party. For example, in May 2005, we entered into a settlement and license agreement to resolve litigation brought by a third party with respect to our alleged infringement of its patents. Under the terms of the agreement, we agreed to pay the third party a total of $2.0 million, and we received a license to its patents. Any future license required under any other party’s patents may not be made available on commercially acceptable terms, if at all. In addition, such licenses are likely to be non-exclusive and, therefore, our competitors may have access to the same technology licensed to us. If we fail to obtain a required license and are unable to design around a patent, we may be unable to effectively conduct certain of our business activities, which could limit our ability to generate revenues and harm our results of operations and possibly prevent us from generating revenues sufficient to sustain our operations. The inability to acquire or maintain domain names for our website could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We currently are the registrant of the “Shutterfly” mark in numerous jurisdictions and of the Internet domain name for our website, Shutterfly.com, as well as various related domain names. Domain names generally are regulated by Internet regulatory bodies and are controlled also by trademark and other related laws. If we lose the ability to use our Shutterfly mark in a particular country or our domain name, we could be forced to either incur significant additional expenses to market our products within that country, including the development of a new brand and the creation of new promotional materials and packaging, or elect not to sell products in that country. Either result could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Furthermore, the regulations governing domain names and laws protecting trademarks and similar proprietary rights could change in ways that block or interfere with our ability to use relevant domains or our current brand. Also, we might not be able to prevent third parties from registering or retaining domain names that interfere with our consumer communications or infringe or otherwise decrease the value of our trademarks and other proprietary rights. Regulatory bodies also may establish additional generic or country-code top-level domains or modify the requirements for holding domain names. As a result, we might not be able to acquire or maintain the domain names that utilize the name Shutterfly in all of the countries in which we currently or intend to conduct business. Our net revenues may be negatively affected if we are required to charge sales taxes in additional jurisdictions or other taxes on purchases. We do not collect or have imposed upon us sales or other taxes related to the products and services we sell, except for certain corporate level taxes and sales tax in California, Nevada and Pennsylvania where we have a tax nexus. As of February 2007 we began collecting sales tax in North Carolina. However, additional states or one or more countries may seek to impose sales or other tax collection obligations on us in the future. A successful assertion by any country or state in which we do business that we should be collecting sales or other taxes on the sale of our products could result in substantial tax liabilities for past sales, discourage customers from purchasing products from us, decrease our ability to compete with traditional retailers or otherwise substantially harm our business and results of operations. Currently, decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court restrict the imposition of obligations to collect state and local sales and use taxes with respect to sales made over the Internet. However, implementation of the restrictions imposed by these Supreme Court decisions is subject to interpretation by state and local taxing authorities. While we believe that these Supreme Court decisions currently restrict state and local taxing authorities in the United States from requiring us to collect sales and use taxes from purchasers located within their jurisdictions, taxing authorities could disagree with our interpretation of these decisions. Moreover, a number of states in the United States, as well as the U.S. Congress, have been considering various initiatives that could limit or supersede the Supreme Court’s position regarding sales and use taxes on Internet sales. If any state or local taxing jurisdiction were to disagree with our interpretation of the Supreme Court’s current position regarding state and local taxation of Internet sales, or if any of these initiatives were to address the Supreme Court’s constitutional concerns and result in a reversal of its current position, we could be required to collect additional sales and use taxes from purchasers. The 24 Table of Contents imposition by state and local governments of various taxes upon Internet commerce could create administrative burdens for us and could decrease our future net sales. Government regulation of the Internet and e-commerce is evolving, and unfavorable changes or failure by us to comply with these regulations could substantially harm our business and results of operations. We are subject to general business regulations and laws as well as regulations and laws specifically governing the Internet and e-commerce. Existing and future laws and regulations may impede the growth of the Internet or other online services. These regulations and laws may cover taxation, restrictions on imports and exports, customs, tariffs, user privacy, data protection, pricing, content, copyrights, distribution, electronic contracts and other communications, consumer protection, the provision of online payment services, broadband residential Internet access and the characteristics and quality of products and services. It is not clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, sales and other taxes, libel and personal privacy apply to the Internet and e-commerce as the vast majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and do not contemplate or address the unique issues raised by the Internet or e-commerce. Those laws that do reference the Internet are only beginning to be interpreted by the courts and their applicability and reach are therefore uncertain. For example, the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, or DMCA, is intended, in part, to limit the liability of eligible online service providers for listing or linking to third-party websites that include materials that infringe copyrights or other rights of others. Portions of the Communications Decency Act, or CDA, are intended to provide statutory protections to online service providers who distribute third-party content. We rely on the protections provided by both the DMCA and CDA in conducting our business. Any changes in these laws or judicial interpretations narrowing their protections will subject us to greater risk of liability and may increase our costs of compliance with these regulations or limit our ability to operate certain lines of business. The Children’s Online Protection Act and the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act are intended to restrict the distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions on the ability of online services to collect user information from minors. In addition, the Protection of Children From Sexual Predators Act of 1998 requires online service providers to report evidence of violations of federal child pornography laws under certain circumstances. The costs of compliance with these regulations may increase in the future as a result of changes in the regulations or the interpretation of them. Further, any failures on our part to comply with these regulations may subject us to significant liabilities. Those current and future laws and regulations or unfavorable resolution of these issues may substantially harm our business and results of operations. Legislation regarding copyright protection or content interdiction could impose complex and costly constraints on our business model. Because of our focus on automation and high volumes, our operations do not involve, for the vast majority of our sales, any human-based review of content. Although our website’s terms of use specifically require customers to represent that they have the right and authority to reproduce the content they provide and that the content is in full compliance with all relevant laws and regulations, we do not have the ability to determine the accuracy of these representations on a case-by-case basis. There is a risk that a customer may supply an image or other content that is the property of another party used without permission, that infringes the copyright or trademark of another party, or that would be considered to be defamatory, pornographic, hateful, racist, scandalous, obscene or otherwise offensive, objectionable or illegal under the laws or court decisions of the jurisdiction where that customer lives. There is, therefore, a risk that customers may intentionally or inadvertently order and receive products from us that are in violation of the rights of another party or a law or regulation of a particular jurisdiction. If we should become legally obligated in the future to perform manual screening and review for all orders destined for a jurisdiction, we will encounter increased production costs or may cease accepting orders for shipment to that jurisdiction which could substantially harm our business and results of operations. Our practice of offering free products and services could be subject to judicial or regulatory challenge. We regularly offer free products as an inducement for customers to try our products. Although we believe that we conspicuously and clearly communicate all details and conditions of these offers — for example, that customers are required to pay shipping, handling and/or processing charges to take advantage of the free product offer — we may be subject to claims from individuals or governmental regulators that our free offers are misleading or do not 25 Table of Contents comply with applicable legislation, which claims may be expensive to defend and could divert management’s time and attention. If we become subject to such claims in the future, or are required or elect to curtail or eliminate our use of free offers, our results of operations may be harmed. Our failure to protect the confidential information of our customers and networks against security breaches and the risks associated with credit card fraud could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. A significant prerequisite to online commerce and communications is the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our failure to prevent security breaches could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. For example, a majority of our sales are billed to our customers’ credit card accounts directly, orders are shipped to a customer’s address, and customers log on using their e-mail address. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to effect the secure transmission of confidential information, including credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect customer transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data or personal information. Any compromise of our security could damage our reputation and brand and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability which would substantially harm our business and results of operations. In addition, anyone who is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions in our operations. We may need to devote significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. In addition, under current credit card practices, we are liable for fraudulent credit card transactions because we do not obtain a cardholder’s signature. We do not currently carry insurance against this risk. To date, we have experienced minimal losses from credit card fraud, but we continue to face the risk of significant losses from this type of fraud. Our failure to adequately control fraudulent credit card transactions could damage our reputation and brand and substantially harm our business and results of operations. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. Federal, state and international laws and regulations may govern the collection, use, sharing and security of data that we receive from our customers. In addition, we have and post on our website our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of customer data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any data-related consent orders, Federal Trade Commission requirements or other federal, state or international privacy-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, which could potentially harm our business. Further, failure or perceived failure to comply with our policies or applicable requirements related to the collection, use or security of personal information or other privacy-related matters could damage our reputation and result in a loss of customers. Expansion of our international operations will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful, which could harm our future business development and existing domestic operations. To date, we have conducted limited international operations, but we intend to expand into international markets in order to grow our business. These expansion plans will require management attention and resources and may be unsuccessful. We have limited experience adapting our products to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. We may have to compete with local companies which understand the local market better than we do. In addition, to achieve satisfactory performance for consumers in international locations it may be necessary to locate physical facilities, such as production facilities in the foreign market. We do not have experience establishing such facilities overseas. We may not be successful in expanding into any international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. In addition, different privacy, censorship and liability standards and regulations and different intellectual property laws in foreign countries may cause our business to be harmed. 26 Table of Contents Maintaining and improving our financial controls and the requirements of being a public company may strain our resources, divert management’s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain qualified board members. As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market. The requirements of these rules and regulations will likely increase our legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and may also place undue strain on our personnel, systems and resources. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures, and will require that we maintain effective internal control over financial reporting. This can be difficult to do. In order to maintain and improve the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, significant resources and management oversight are required. We have a substantial effort ahead of us to implement and maintain appropriate processes, document the system of internal control over relevant processes, assess their design, remediate any deficiencies, and test their operation. As a result, management’s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. These efforts will also involve substantial accounting related costs. In addition, if we are unable to continue to meet these requirements, we may not be able to remain listed on The NASDAQ Global Market. Under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the rules and regulations of The NASDAQ Stock Market, we are required to maintain a board of directors with a majority of independent directors. These rules and regulations may make it more difficult and more expensive for us to maintain directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be required to accept reduced coverage or incur substantially higher costs to maintain coverage. If we are unable to maintain adequate directors’ and officers’ insurance, our ability to recruit and retain qualified directors and officers, especially those directors who may be considered independent for purposes of Nasdaq rules, will be significantly curtailed. Our stock price may be volatile or may decline regardless of our operating performance. The market price of our common stock may fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: • price and volume fluctuations in the overall stock market; • changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; • the financial projections we may provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet these projections; • changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, our failure to meet these estimates or failure of those analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our stock; • ratings downgrades by any securities analysts who follow our company; • the public’s response to our press releases or other public announcements, including our filings with the SEC; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; • introduction of technologies or product enhancements that reduce the need for our products; • market conditions or trends in our industry or the economy as a whole; • the loss of key personnel; • lawsuits threatened or filed against us; 27 Table of Contents • future sales of our common stock by our executive officers, directors and significant stockholders; and • other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. Some provisions in our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws and Delaware law may deter third parties from acquiring us. Our restated certificate of incorporation and restated bylaws contain provisions that may make the acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors, including the following: • our board is classified into three classes of directors, each with staggered three-year terms; • only our chairman, our chief executive officer, our president or a majority of our board of directors is authorized to call a special meeting of stockholders; • our stockholders may take action only at a meeting of stockholders and not by written consent; • vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by our board of directors and not by stockholders; • our certificate of incorporation authorizes undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be established and shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval; and • advance notice procedures apply for stockholders to nominate candidates for election as directors or to bring matters before an annual meeting of stockholders. These anti-takeover defenses could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for you and other stockholders to elect directors of your choosing and cause us to take other corporate actions you desire. In addition, we are subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which, subject to some exceptions, prohibits “business combinations” between a Delaware corporation and an “interested stockholder,” which is generally defined as a stockholder who becomes a beneficial owner of 15% or more of a Delaware corporation’s voting stock, for a three-year period following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder. Section 203 could have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in control that our stockholders might consider to be in their best interests. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. Not applicable. 