ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Except for the historical information contained herein, this Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those discussed here. Factors that could cause or contribute to differences in our actual results include those discussed in the following section, as well as those discussed in Part II, Item 7 entitled “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and elsewhere throughout this Form 10-K. You should consider carefully the following risk factors, together with all of the other information included in this Form 10-K. Each of these risk factors could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition, as well as adversely affect the value of an investment in our common stock. Going Concern—See “Going Concern” in Note 1 of Notes to Financial Statements and page 27 of this Risk Factors section, in which we discuss the need to obtain additional financing in 2008. We will need substantial additional funding to continue our operations and may be unable to raise capital when needed, or at all, which would force us to delay, curtail or eliminate our clinical programs or product development programs. We will need to raise substantial additional capital to: • enforce our proprietary rights in connection with our litigation actions involving CryoCath, including the interference request we filed with the USPTO, the offensive legal actions in Delaware and Canada and the investigation pursued by the ITC; • increase our product commercialization activities in the United States; • fund our operations and clinical trials; • continue our research and development; and • defend, in litigation or otherwise, any claims that we infringe third party patents or other intellectual property rights or have otherwise engaged in anticompetitive behavior, including in connection with our litigation with CryoCath. We believe that our cash, cash equivalents and short-term investment balances including the expected collection of the remaining $4.0 million from the BSC collaboration will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash requirements until the fourth quarter of 2008. However, our future funding requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to: • the costs of filing, prosecuting, and maintaining our owned and licensed patent applications and patents, and defending and enforcing these patents and other intellectual property rights, including in connection with our litigation with CryoCath; • the commercial acceptance of our product in the United States, including after we initiate sales efforts targeting AF, if ever; • the costs of establishing sales, marketing and distribution capabilities; • our ability to obtain FDA approval for AF or other regulatory approvals for our products; • the scope, rate of progress and cost of our clinical trials and other research and development activities; 29 Table of Contents • the costs and timing of seeking regulatory approvals, including participation in FDA advisory panel meetings and performing any required additional studies or trials; • clinical trial results; • acceptance by the FDA of our clinical trial design and data to support marketing approval for the desired indications; • the extent and level of reimbursement for cryoablation for various indications; • the effect of competing products and technologies; and • the terms and timing of any collaborative, licensing and other arrangements that we may establish. Until we can generate sufficient product revenue, which may never occur, we expect to finance our future cash needs through public or private equity offerings, debt financings or corporate collaboration and licensing arrangements. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, our stockholders may experience dilution. Debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants, and we may not meet the conditions required to access the additional funding under our existing credit facility. Examples of such restrictive covenants, all of which we are subject to under our current loan agreement, include limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or liens on any of our assets, dispose of our property, make dividend payments or distributions to our stockholders or enter into transactions that would result in a change in control of us. Additionally, pursuant to the terms of our current loan agreement, we are subject to a material adverse change clause, which permits the holder of the note to call the balance if a material adverse change occurs. A material adverse change is defined as, (i) a material impairment in the perfection or priority of lenders’ lien in the collateral or in the value of such collateral; (ii) a material adverse change in our business, operations, or condition (financial or otherwise); or (iii) a material impairment of the prospect of repayment of any portion of the obligations. Therefore, if we become insolvent and are not able to pay our debts, our lenders have the ability to seize our remaining cash earlier than the scheduled repayment, which could force us to cease operations. The terms of any additional debt or equity financing may not be favorable to us or our stockholders. If we raise additional funds through collaboration and licensing arrangements with third parties, it may be necessary to relinquish some rights to our technologies or our product candidates or grant licenses on terms that are not favorable to us. The legal actions that we are undertaking with CryoCath are anticipated to be very expensive, and will take between one to three years to be resolved. If we are unable to raise adequate funds, we may have to liquidate some or all of our assets or delay, reduce the scope of or eliminate some or all of our clinical or product development programs or commercialization efforts, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects. We may not be able to continue as a going concern or fund our existing capital needs. As more fully described in Note 1 of the Notes to Financial Statements, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our 2007 financial statements related to the uncertainty of our ability to continue as a going concern. There is substantial doubt as to whether we will be able to continue as a going concern beyond 2008 without access to additional working capital. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain additional funds during 2008 on satisfactory terms, or at all. If we cannot obtain sufficient additional financing in the short-term, we may be forced to restructure or significantly curtail our operations, file for bankruptcy or cease operations. The consolidated financial statements do not include any adjustments relating to the recoverability and classification of recorded asset amounts or amounts and classification of liabilities that might be necessary should we be forced to take any such actions. Based upon the foregoing, our independent registered public accounting firm has included an explanatory paragraph in their report on our 2007 financial statements related to the uncertainty in our ability to continue as a going concern. 30 Table of Contents The litigation with CryoCath is very complex and is being pursued in several actions. It will be very expensive to prosecute and will take years to resolve. If we are not successful in our actions, it may prevent us from being able to continue our operations. The legal actions with CryoCath include our defense of claims by CryoCath that we infringe patents held by them. Although we do not believe we infringe any valid and enforceable claim of the CryoCath patents, we will have to spend significant time and financial resources in our defense of this lawsuit. This lawsuit will be tried before a jury in the district courts of Delaware and there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain the financial resources necessary to defend our position, or that we will be able to convince a jury that we do not infringe the CryoCath patents. If we are not successful, it would materially harm our business and may require that we cease our operations. Our legal actions against CryoCath also include four actions that we have initiated against CryoCath, each of which will be expensive to prosecute and that will require that we demonstrate that CryoCath infringes one or more of our valid and enforceable claims, and to establish ownership of certain claims. We will need to obtain additional financial resources to be able to prosecute these legal actions, and the financial resources that we require will be significant relative to our existing cash. If we are not able to obtain the additional financial resources needed, then we will be required to discontinue our legal actions, which may weaken the perceived or real value of our patent portfolio. Additionally, if we are not successful in any of our legal actions against CryoCath, we believe it will hinder our ability to compete with CryoCath in the commercial marketplace. Our legal actions against CryoCath have also caused, and we expect will continue to cause, a significant diversion of our management’s time and attention away from our business and operations. We have a limited operating history, have a history of operating losses, expect to continue to incur losses and may never become profitable. We have a limited operating history and have only recently received approval from the FDA to commercialize our product in the United States for the treatment of AFL. Even though we have received approval to commercialize our product for the treatment of AFL, we have only hired a limited number of sales and marketing personnel, and do not intend to make the capital expenditures necessary to broadly commercialize our cryoablation system unless we are able to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms. We do not anticipate generating significant product revenues until we obtain FDA marketing approval of our cryoablation system for the treatment of AF and our product candidates may require additional development, clinical trials, regulatory clearances or approvals by the FDA if they are to be commercially accepted. There can be no assurance that we will be able to raise the additional capital needed to broadly commercialize our system for the treatment of AFL, and we may never broadly commercialize our system for the treatment of AFL. As of December 31, 2007, we had an accumulated deficit of $100.8 million. We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception in August 2000, including net losses of $15.8 million, $15.1 million and $17.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. We expect to continue to incur significant and increasing operating losses, in the aggregate and on a per share basis, for the next several years. These losses, among other things, have had and will continue to have an adverse effect on our stockholders’ equity, net current assets and working capital. Because of the risks and uncertainties associated with developing medical devices, we are unable to predict the extent of any future losses or when we will become profitable, if at all. We expect that our primary expenses for the next 24 months will be costs for pursuing our legal actions against CryoCath, completing our clinical trial for AF, costs associated with preparing our PMA for AF, other costs associated with new product development, costs associated with our intellectual property strategy, and costs associated with our post-market registry studies for AFL. If we are able to secure additional financing, we expect that we would also incur increased costs for commercializing our product in the United States for the treatment of AFL. We expect that our general and administrative and legal costs will continue to increase due to the additional 31 Table of Contents operational and regulatory burdens applicable to public companies. If we receive FDA marketing approval of our cryoablation system for AF and we are able to secure additional financing, we expect to incur significantly increased sales, marketing, manufacturing, and compliance expenses. We do not currently have the required approval to market our cryoablation system in the United States for the treatment of AF and we may not receive this approval. We may not become profitable even if we obtain FDA approval for AF and succeed in commercializing our cryoablation system in the United States. As a result, we cannot be sure when we will become profitable, if at all. We may need to engage in costly patent litigation against our competitors, which may harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The medical device industry is characterized by a large number of patents, patent filings and frequent litigation based on allegations of patent infringement. For example, on October 18, 2007, CryoCath initiated legal proceedings against us in the United States District Court in Delaware, seeking a declaration that our cryoablation system infringes a number of CryoCath’s United States issued patents. Additionally, competitors may have filed applications for or have been issued patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights related to products or processes that we compete with or are similar to ours. We may not be aware of all of the patents potentially adverse to our interests that may have been issued to others. Based on the litigious nature of the medical device industry and the fact that we may pose a competitive threat to some companies who own or control various patents, we believe that as we begin to engage in and continue on with commercialization activities in the United States, there is a significant risk that one or more third parties, in addition to CryoCath, will assert a patent infringement claim, as CryoCath already has, against the manufacture, use or sale of our cryoablation system. The CryoCath lawsuit seeks damages from CryoCor and an injunction that would prevent us from selling our cryoablation system; this will be expensive to defend. Any other similar lawsuit could also seek to prevent us from commercializing our cryoablation system or enjoin us from selling it, may seek damages from us, and would likely be expensive for us to defend against. We cannot predict if or when any third party patent holder, in addition to CryoCath, will file suit for patent infringement. We can provide no assurance as to the outcome of the CryoCath litigation. The outcome of patent litigation is subject to substantial uncertainties, especially in medical device-related patent cases that may, for example, turn on the interpretation of claim language by the court which may not be to our advantage and also the testimony of experts as to technical facts upon which experts may reasonably disagree. Our involvement in the CryoCath patent litigation will, and our involvement in other patent litigation could, result in significant expense. Some of our competitors have considerable resources available to them and a strong economic incentive to undertake substantial efforts to stop or delay us from bringing our cryoablation system to market and achieving market acceptance. We, on the other hand, are an early stage company with comparatively few resources available to us to engage in costly and protracted litigation. Moreover, regardless of the outcome, patent litigation against or by us, including the CryoCath litigation, could significantly disrupt our development and commercialization efforts, divert our management’s attention and quickly consume our financial resources. In addition, if third parties file patent applications or are issued patents claiming technology also claimed by us in pending applications, we may be required to participate in interference proceedings with the USPTO or in other proceedings outside the United States, including oppositions, to determine priority of invention or patentability. For example, we have filed requests with the USPTO seeking to invoke an interference proceeding involving certain patents owned by CryoCath. In January 2008, the USPTO determined that one of our applications claimed rights to the same technology claimed by CryoCath, and declared an interference in which we were named the senior party. If we are not successful in this proceeding, this proceeding could result in us failing to gain rights to certain patent claims. Even if we are successful, we may incur substantial costs and the time and attention of our management and scientific personnel will be diverted in pursuit of these proceedings. 32 Table of Contents In the event that we are found to infringe any valid claim in a patent held by a third party, including in connection with the CryoCath litigation, we may, among other things, be required to: • pay actual damages, plus increased damages up to triple the actual damages and the other party’s attorneys’ fees, which may be substantial; • obtain licenses to the infringed intellectual property, which may not be available to us on acceptable terms, or at all; • cease the development, manufacture, use and/or sale of products that infringe the patent rights of others through a court-imposed sanction called an injunction; • expend significant resources to redesign our technology so that it does not infringe others’ patent rights, or to develop or acquire non-infringing technology, which may not be possible; and/or • discontinue manufacturing or other processes incorporating infringing technology. If we need to redesign our products to avoid third party patents, we may suffer significant regulatory delays associated with conducting additional studies or submitting technical, manufacturing or other information related to any redesigned product and, ultimately, in obtaining approval. Further, any such redesigns may result in less effective and/or less commercially desirable products. Additionally, any involvement of us in litigation in which we are accused of infringement, including the CryoCath litigation, may result in negative publicity about us or our cryoablation system, injure our relations with any then-current or prospective customers and cause delays in the commercialization of our cryoablation system. We may never receive additional milestone payments or equity investments from BSC or BSS. Under our development and license agreement with BSC, we are responsible for modifying our existing cryoablation console to meet certain technical specifications of BSC. Even if we are able to make the requested modifications which meet the required technical specifications, it is possible that BSC may determine, in its sole judgment, that it does not wish to continue under the development and license agreement, which would mean that we would not receive any additional milestone payments or equity investments. A decision by BSC to discontinue the development and license agreement would harm our business. Additionally, even if we are successful in modifying our cryoablation console to meet BSC’s technical specifications, and we receive all payments as required under the development and license agreement and common stock purchase agreement, there can be no assurance that our decision to collaborate with BSC will result in any future royalty payments, and there can be no assurance that we will receive any other benefits, commercial or financial, under our development and license agreement with BSC. We are dependent on the success of our cryoablation system, which to date has only been approved by the FDA for the treatment of AFL in the United States. If we are unable to achieve our product development goals, gain FDA approval to commercialize our cryoablation system in the United States for the treatment of AF, or experience significant delays in doing so, our stock price may decline and we may be forced to cease operations. We have expended significant time, money and effort in the development of our cryoablation system, which to date has only received FDA approval for the treatment of AFL. Our cryoablation system is still in clinical evaluation for the treatment of AF, has not yet received FDA approval for the treatment of AF and may never be commercialized in the United States for the treatment of AF. We do not anticipate engaging in significant commercialization activities, or generating significant product revenues, until we obtain FDA marketing approval of our cryoablation system for the treatment of AF. In our public announcements, we have provided estimates for the timing of the accomplishment of various clinical, regulatory and other product development goals relating to our cryoablation system, which we sometimes refer to as milestones. These milestones include the submission of data from our clinical trials to the FDA, the timing of FDA approval for our cryoablation system and other 33 Table of Contents clinical and regulatory events. These estimates are based on a variety of assumptions. The actual timing of these milestones can vary dramatically compared to our estimates, in some cases for reasons beyond our control, and we may never achieve some or all of these milestones. For example, in January 2006, the FDA informed us that our PMA for the treatment of AFL was not approvable based on the data we had submitted. In response, we amended our PMA based upon a different analysis of chronic effectiveness, and the FDA has recently decided to approve our PMA for the treatment of AFL. If we do not meet our estimated milestones as publicly disclosed for AF, our business may be harmed and our stock price may decline. Additionally, our CMO, is currently on a leave of absence for personal reasons, and under her amended employment agreement, she can elect to terminate her employment with us for any reason between April 30, 2008 and May 31, 2008. Although we are making arrangements to be able to complete our regulatory and clinical initiatives, if she decides to terminate her employment with us, it may impact the timing of our PMA for the treatment of AF. If our cryoablation system is not approved by the FDA for the treatment of AF, or if our cryoablation system is not commercially accepted for the treatment of AFL or AF, we may be forced to cease operations. We will need separate FDA approval supported by a separate clinical trial for each proposed indication for our cryoablation system. We intend to seek FDA approval of our cryoablation system to treat AF, and currently can only market our cryoablation system for AFL, which is the indication for which we have received FDA approval. If the FDA does not approve our cryoablation system for treating AF, we will continue to market our cryoablation system only for AFL. For each indication, the FDA’s marketing approval process is expensive and the outcome is uncertain. To obtain FDA marketing approval, we are required to submit detailed and comprehensive scientific data demonstrating safety and effectiveness of our cryoablation system to the FDA’s satisfaction. The marketing approval process also requires passing FDA inspection of our manufacturing facilities and of the clinical trial records for data integrity and compliance with regulatory requirements. The FDA’s PMA approval review process generally takes one to three years after filing, but may take longer. The FDA has not approved any medical device for treating AF. We cannot assure you that we will obtain FDA approval to market our cryoablation system in the United States for AF in a timely manner or at all. In addition, even though we have received FDA approval for the treatment of AFL, we may never obtain approval for AF. If we fail to obtain FDA approval for AF or if our cryoablation system is not commercially adopted for the treatment of AFL, we may be forced to cease our operations. In addition, if we do not receive FDA approval for the AF indication, we may never become profitable. As a condition to the approval of our PMA for the treatment of AFL, the FDA is requiring us to conduct a registry study of patients treated for AFL with our cryoablation system, and of patients treated with radiofrequency catheters that are approved for the treatment of AFL. If we have difficulty completing the registry study, or if the FDA believes that the safety and effectiveness results for patients treated with our cryoablation system are not good, then the FDA could rescind the approval of our device for the treatment of AFL. As a condition of FDA approval for marketing of our cryoablation system for the treatment of AFL, we agreed to conduct a registry study of patients treated for AFL with our cryoablation system, and to include as part of the registry study patients treated for AFL with competing radiofrequency devices approved for the treatment of AFL. The FDA could determine that the results we obtain of patients treated with cryoablation do not justify continuing to make our product available for commercialization in the United States, and they could rescind our approval for the treatment of AFL. Additionally, although we intend to begin the registry study in the second half of 2008 and will seek to complete the enrollment as soon as possible, we may not be able to find patients who agree to join our registry study and it is possible that the FDA could believe that we are not actively working to complete the registry study and rescind our approval for the treatment of AFL on that basis until additional data is collected. If the FDA chooses to rescind the approval of our product for the treatment of AFL, our business would be materially harmed and our stock price would likely decline substantially, and we may not be able to reinstate our ability to commercialize our product in the United States for the treatment of AFL. 34 Table of Contents If the data from our AF clinical trial does not demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our cryoablation system to the FDA’s satisfaction, we will not receive FDA approval to market our cryoablation system in the United States for the treatment of AF. To obtain FDA approval for marketing of our cryoablation system for the treatment of AF, our pivotal trial for AF must generate data demonstrating that our cryoablation system is safe and effective. The FDA’s grant of permission to proceed with the AF pivotal trials does not constitute a binding commitment that the FDA will consider either trial design adequate to support approval for our cryoablation system. In addition, there can be no assurance that the data generated during the pivotal trial will meet our chosen safety and effectiveness endpoints or otherwise produce results that will lead the FDA to grant marketing approval. We may never receive PMA approval from the FDA for the treatment of AF. We may not complete our pivotal trial for AF on schedule, or at all, or it may be conducted improperly, which may delay or preclude FDA approval for marketing our cryoablation system for this indication. The completion of our pivotal trial for AF may be delayed or terminated for many reasons, including, but not limited to: • the departure of our Chief Medical Officer, if she elects to terminate her employment with us before we file our PMA; • the FDA places our pivotal trial on hold; • insufficient capital to fund the pivotal trial; • lack of availability of the catheters used in the pivotal trial; • recalls of the catheters used in the pivotal trial; • subjects are not followed-up at the rate we currently expect; • subjects experience an unacceptable rate or severity of adverse side effects; • third party clinical investigators do not perform our pivotal trial on our anticipated schedule or consistent with the clinical trial protocol, Good Clinical Practice and regulatory requirements, or other third party organizations do not perform data collection and analysis in a timely or accurate manner; • inspections of our clinical trial sites by the FDA or Institutional Review Boards, or IRBs, find regulatory violations that require us to undertake corrective action, suspend or terminate one or more sites, or prohibit us from using some or all of the data in support of our PMA application; • the reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers changes; • one or more of the IRBs for our clinical trial sites suspends or terminates our trial at an investigational site, precludes enrollment of additional subjects, or withdraws its approval of our trial; • one or more of our clinical investigators withdraws from our trial or deviates from our approved protocol; or • third parties, investigators and contract laboratories conducting our pivotal trial do not perform as contractually required or expected. Subject enrollment in clinical trials and successful completion of subject follow-up in clinical trials depend on many factors, including the size of the subject population, the nature of the trial protocol, the proximity of subjects to clinical sites, the eligibility criteria for the trial, and subject compliance. Subjects may be discouraged from continuing to participate in our clinical trial if the trial protocol requires them to undergo extensive pre- and post-treatment procedures to assess the safety and effectiveness of our cryoablation system. We have seen a higher withdrawal rate of patients than we originally anticipated in our AF clinical trial. Withdrawal rates may continue to increase as we conduct our AF clinical trial because the follow up period for the AF trial is 12 months 35 Table of Contents as opposed to six months for the AFL trial. In addition, subjects participating in our clinical trial may die before completion of their follow-up. Moreover, it may be difficult to successfully follow our subjects for the required 12-month period. Although to date we have successfully followed all our subjects from our AF feasibility study for the required 12-month period, historical results may not be indicative of our future performance. Additionally, we have seen a higher withdrawal rate of patients than we originally anticipated which required us to request from the FDA that we be able to enroll more than the 160 patients originally planned. In January 2007, the FDA approved our request to increase the size of our pivotal trial. The FDA may require that we enroll additional patients in order to complete our dataset. Failure of subjects to continue to participate in a trial may cause an increase in costs and delays in our clinical trial or result in the failure of the trial, which could cause us to fail to secure FDA marketing approval of our cryoablation system in a timely manner, if at all. Our development costs will increase if we have material delays in our clinical trial or if we need to perform additional or larger clinical trials than planned. Serious or unexpected adverse events during a clinical trial could cause us to modify, suspend, repeat, or terminate a trial, or to cancel the entire program. We may need to enroll additional patients to be able to demonstrate safety and effectiveness of our device, if our dataset of evaluable patients for our AF pivotal trial is not deemed large enough. When we designed the size of our AF pivotal trial, we made certain assumptions about the number of patients to be enrolled to permit us to evaluate the results of each arm of our clinical trial. During the conduct of our pivotal trial, patients have withdrawn from our clinical study for reasons not in our control, such as, they were randomized to medical management, or drug therapy, or were not covered by insurance, and withdrew from the trial. If we do not have a sufficiently large evaluable patient population for our analysis when we have completed enrollment and patient follow-up, we may need to increase enrollment until we can generate a sufficiently large evaluable patient population. For example, the FDA has approved our request to enroll an additional 20 patients, up to 180 patients in total. In order to receive and maintain FDA approval of our product candidates, our manufacturing facilities and the manufacturing facilities of our suppliers must comply with applicable regulatory requirements. If we fail to achieve or maintain regulatory approval of these manufacturing facilities, we may be forced to cease operations. Commercialization of our products and product candidates require access to, or the development of, manufacturing facilities that meet applicable regulatory and quality standards to manufacture a sufficient supply of our products. We believe we will need eventually to obtain additional commercial-scale manufacturing facilities. These facilities must be evaluated and qualified under our quality system to ensure that they meet our production and quality standards. The FDA also must inspect and approve facilities that manufacture our products for United States commercial purposes, as well as the manufacturing processes and specifications for our products prior to granting marketing approval of our cryoablation system. Suppliers of certain components of, and products used to manufacture, our products also must comply with FDA and foreign regulatory requirements, which often require significant resources and subject us and our suppliers to potential regulatory inspections and stoppages. We or our suppliers may not satisfy these requirements. If we or our suppliers do not achieve and maintain required regulatory approval for our manufacturing operations, including for any additional commercial-scale manufacturing facilities that we may obtain in the future, our commercialization efforts in the United States, if any, could be delayed, which could impair our business and financial condition and could require us to cease operations. 36 Table of Contents If the integrity of a catheter used as part of our cryoablation system is compromised, serious injury or death may occur, which could lead the FDA to delay or deny or withdraw marketing approval. Our cryoablation system works by utilizing a pressurized system that delivers nitrous oxide to chill the tip of a catheter to freeze heart tissue in contact with the catheter tip while the catheter is in contact with the patient’s heart. Although our cryoablation system is designed to prevent leaks in the catheter and to prevent the flow of nitrous oxide into the catheter if the catheter has been ruptured, nitrous oxide could enter the blood stream if the catheter developed a leak, which could result in serious injury to a patient, or even death. In April 2005, during routine quality control testing of a lot of Model 1200 catheters, we identified several instances of inadequate seals in the joint where the articulation section is welded to the catheter shaft, which could have allowed a leak of nitrous oxide into a patient. We initiated an investigation which covered several weeks to identify the source of the catheter integrity breaches, but were unable to find a specific root cause. In May 2005, we initiated a voluntary recall in Europe of all eight of the outstanding lots of our Model 1200 catheter and removed the Model 1200 from clinical trial use. If a future leak were to occur, the FDA could deny or delay or withdraw marketing approval until we modified our device and provided proof that a similar failure could not recur. Any future leak could lead to additional recalls, cause us to incur financial liability and prevent our system from gaining market acceptance among physicians, healthcare payers, patients and the medical community, any of which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If the pulmonary vein isolation, or PVI, or any other ablation procedure performed in our AF pivotal trial fails to provide a significant benefit to patients, or has serious adverse effects, we may not be able to obtain FDA approval for marketing our cryoablation system. AF is a complex disease and its origin and progression are not well understood in the medical community. The effectiveness of ablation in moderating AF has not been demonstrated in a controlled clinical trial. The FDA could deny approval of our cryoablation system if our pivotal AF trial does not show that AF ablation performed with our cryoablation system provides a greater benefit to patients than medical management with anti-arrhythmic medications alone. The PVI procedure when performed with radiofrequency ablation has been associated with stroke and pulmonary vein stenosis, a narrowing of the pulmonary vein that can have serious adverse health implications. Radiofrequency ablation and other heat based ablation technologies used for AF ablation have been associated with risks such as the formation of atrial esophageal fistulas, or channels, between the heart and the esophagus. Although we believe that cryoablation reduces this risk as compared to heat-based ablation, we and the medical community do not have a complete understanding of the presentation and progression of these complications. If patients have strokes, develop significant pulmonary vein stenosis, atrio-esophageal fistulas, or other unanticipated adverse effects in our pivotal AF trial, the FDA could deny approval to market our cryoablation system, which could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations and growth prospects. If approved by the FDA for AF, our cryoablation system will likely be limited to use as a second line therapy for patients with AF who have failed drug treatment, which could limit our sales. Our pivotal AF trial will study our cryoablation system only in patients who have failed drug therapy. For this reason, if the FDA approves our cryoablation system for the treatment of AF, it is likely that the FDA will require us to label and advertise our cryoablation system only for the treatment of patients who have failed drug therapy. This restriction could limit our sales. Additional clinical trials will be required to obtain approval for use in a broader population of patients. 37 Table of Contents Our future growth depends on physician adoption and market acceptance of our cryoablation system, which may not occur. Our cryoablation system may not gain market acceptance among physicians, patients, healthcare payers or the medical community. The degree of market acceptance of any product that we may develop will depend on a number of factors, including: • the perceived safety and effectiveness of the product; • the prevalence and severity of any side effects; • the procedure time associated with the use of the product; • potential advantages over alternative treatments; • our ability to adequately fund the commercialization of the product; • the strength of marketing and distribution support; and • sufficient third party coverage or reimbursement. If our cryoablation system, or any other product that we may develop, does not achieve an adequate level of acceptance by physicians, patients or healthcare payers, we may not generate significant product revenue, if any, and we may not become profitable. We believe that another factor that will impact the degree of market acceptance of any of our products is our ability to educate physicians to change their screening and referral practices in order to ensure physician acceptance of our system. For example, despite the lack of effectiveness of treating AF and AFL with drugs, many physicians routinely prescribe drugs to patients suffering from AF and AFL without offering any treatment alternatives even when drug therapy is failing. We intend to target our sales efforts to electrophysiologists because they are often the physicians treating both AF and AFL. However, the initial point of contact of patients experiencing AF and AFL may be general practitioners. If referring physicians are not properly educated about AF and AFL and the potential benefits of using our cryoablation system over drug therapy in particular in circumstances where drug therapy fails, they may not refer AF and AFL patients who have been unsuccessfully treated with drug therapy to electrophysiologists for our cryoablation system procedure, which may impair our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our product candidates could be recalled and any failure to comply with FDA regulations could subject us to enforcement action. The FDA and similar foreign governmental authorities have the authority to require the recall of commercialized products in the event of material regulatory deficiencies or defects in design or manufacture. A government mandated or voluntary recall by us could occur as a result of component failures, device malfunctions, adverse events, such as serious injuries or deaths, or quality-related issues such as manufacturing errors or design or labeling defects. Recalls of our cryoablation system would divert managerial and financial resources, harm our reputation with customers and have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. A recall announcement could also negatively affect our stock price. After the FDA permits a device to enter commercial distribution, numerous additional regulatory requirements apply. We may incur significant costs to comply with such requirements. These requirements include, among others: • compliance with the Quality System Regulations, which require manufacturers to follow elaborate design, testing, control, documentation and other quality assurance procedures during the manufacturing process; • the FDA’s general prohibition against promoting products for unapproved or “off-label” uses; 38 Table of Contents • the Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur; and • the Reports of Corrections and Removals regulation, which requires manufacturers to report recalls and field actions to the FDA if initiated to reduce the risk to health posed by the device or to remedy a violation of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, or FDCA. Even if our products are approved, stringent FDA conditions of approval may significantly impact our sales and earnings depending on the scope and complexity of such conditions. The FDA enforces these requirements with inspections and market surveillance. If the FDA finds that we have failed to comply with one of these requirements, it could institute a wide variety of enforcement actions, ranging from a Warning Letter to more severe sanctions, including the following: • fines, injunctions and civil penalties; • recall or seizure of our products; • operating restrictions, partial suspension or total shutdown of production; • refusing requests for 510(k) clearance or PMA approval of new products; • withdrawing 510(k) clearance or PMA approvals already granted; and • criminal prosecution. Any of these enforcement actions could be costly and significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to obtain and maintain protection for our intellectual property, the value of our technology and products may be adversely affected. Our business and competitive positions are dependent upon our ability to protect our proprietary technology. Because of the substantial length of time and expense associated with development of new products, we, along with the rest of the medical device industry, place considerable importance on obtaining and maintaining patent protection for new technologies, products and processes. The patent positions of medical device companies, including ours, are generally uncertain and involve complex legal and factual questions. Our owned and licensed patent applications may not protect our technologies and products because, among other things: • any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors, may not provide a basis for a commercially viable product or provide us with any competitive advantage; • any patents issued to us, our collaborators or our licensors may be challenged, as is currently ongoing in the CryoCath litigation, circumvented or invalidated by third parties; • all pending patent applications may not result in issued patents; and • any additional proprietary technologies that we develop may not be patentable. We attempt to protect our intellectual property position by filing United States patent applications related to our proprietary technology, inventions and improvements that are important to the development of our business. We also protect our intellectual property position by pursuing infringement actions against other companies that we believe infringe our valid and enforceable IP. For example, we have initiated several actions against CryoCath that we believe are necessary for us to protect our intellectual property position. These actions include a pending interference declared by the United States Patent and Trade Office, an investigation of CryoCath by the United States International Trade Commission, and litigation that we have initiated in the district courts of Delaware and in Canada. Currently, we own or license 39 issued United States patents and a number of pending United States patent applications covering various aspects of our products and technology. 39 Table of Contents We also own or license 24 patents issued outside of the United States and have a number of pending patent applications outside the United States. Limitations on patent protection in some countries outside the United States, and the differences in what constitutes patentable subject matter in these countries, may limit the protection we have under patents issued to us outside of the United States. In addition, laws of foreign countries may not protect our intellectual property to the same extent as would laws of the United States. In determining whether or not to seek a patent or to license any patent in a particular foreign country, we weigh the relevant costs and benefits, and consider, among other things, the market potential of our product candidates in the jurisdiction, and the scope and enforceability of patent protection afforded by the law of the jurisdiction. Failure to obtain adequate patent protection for our proprietary product candidates and technology would impair our ability to be commercially competitive in these markets. Our ability to market our products may be impaired by the intellectual property rights of third parties. We are aware of numerous United States patents owned or licensed by third parties in areas potentially related to the technology used in our cryoablation system. These third parties include CryoCath, Johnson & Johnson, the Regents of the University of California and Spembly Medical Ltd. These third parties or our other competitors may have issued patents that cover technologies that we use in producing our product candidates, or that we use in treating patients with our product candidates. CryoCath initiated legal proceedings against us in the United States District Court in Delaware, seeking a declaration that our cryoablation system infringes a number of CryoCath’s United States issued patents. Other owners of patents or their licensees may also assert that the manufacture, use or sale of our cryoablation system infringes one or more claims of their patents. The possibility of litigation, in addition to the CryoCath litigation, being filed against us based on one or more of these or other patents or other intellectual property is a significant risk. Because of the uncertainty inherent in any intellectual property litigation, a court may determine that current or future third party patents, including CryoCath patents, contain one or more claims that are valid, enforceable and infringed upon by our cryoablation system. There is also a risk that other third party patents or intellectual property rights in areas of technology related to our products of which we are not aware may materially and adversely affect our business. Moreover, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be currently pending patent applications of which we are not yet aware that may result in issued patents that if successfully asserted against us, would materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. We depend on single source suppliers for our cryoablation system components and the loss of these suppliers could prevent or delay our clinical trials, commercialization of our cryoablation system in the United States and additional sales of our cryoablation system in Europe. We do not have long-term contracts with our third party suppliers for any of the equipment and components that are used in our manufacturing process. Our suppliers may have difficulty supplying components that meet our required specifications or needs. None of our suppliers has agreed to maintain a guaranteed level of production capacity. Establishing additional or replacement suppliers for these components may cause us to incur substantial costs and take a considerable amount of time, may require product redesign and could result in the need for submission to the FDA of a PMA supplement or possibly a separate PMA, which would cause us to incur considerable expense. We also may have difficulty obtaining similar components from other suppliers that are acceptable to our quality requirements and specifications, the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities. Even if available, similar components from other suppliers could be significantly more expensive. Any delays, regulatory or otherwise, could delay the manufacture and delivery of our cryoablation system and impact the commercialization of our cryoablation system in the United States and sales of our cryoablation system in Europe and adversely impact our business. 40 Table of Contents If we are unable to manage our growth, our future revenue and operating results may be adversely affected. We will need to expand our sales and marketing operations and grow our research and development, product development and administrative operations. This expansion would place a significant strain on our management and operational and financial resources. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our growth. To manage our growth and in connection with commercializing our cryoablation system in the United States, we will be required to improve existing, and implement new, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls and expand, train and manage our growing employee base. If we were unable to manage our growth effectively, our business and operating results could be harmed. We have limited manufacturing capabilities and manufacturing personnel, and if our manufacturing facilities are unable to provide an adequate supply of products, our growth could be limited and our business could be harmed. We currently manufacture our cryoablation system at our facilities in San Diego, California. If there was a disruption to our manufacturing operations, we would have no other means of manufacturing our cryoablation system until we have restored and re-qualified our manufacturing capability at our facilities or developed alternative manufacturing facilities. Additionally, any damage to or destruction of our San Diego facilities or our equipment, prolonged power outage or contamination at our facility would significantly impair our ability to produce our cryoablation system. If we were unable to produce sufficient quantities of our cryoablation system for use in our planned clinical trials, commercialization activities for AFL and AF in the United States, as well as sales of our cryoablation systems in Europe, would be delayed. We currently have limited resources, facilities and experience to commercially manufacture our products and product candidates. In the first half of 2006, we restructured our workforce, including reductions in our manufacturing staffing that has reduced our capacity to manufacture catheters and consoles. Currently, we can only produce sufficient quantities of catheters to support our expected commercial sales for 2008. To produce our cryoablation system in the quantities that we believe will be required to meet anticipated market demand in the United States in the event that we receive regulatory approval for AF, we will need to increase, or “scale up”, the production process by a significant factor over the current level of production. There are technical challenges to scaling up manufacturing capacity, and developing commercial-scale manufacturing facilities would require the investment of substantial additional funds and hiring and retaining additional management and technical personnel who have the necessary manufacturing experience. We may not successfully complete any required scale up in a timely manner, or at all due to such technical difficulties and/or insufficient funds. If we are unable to do so, we may not be able to produce our cryoablation system in sufficient quantities to meet the requirements for the launch of the product in the United States if we receive the required regulatory approval from the FDA for AF, or to meet demand for our cryoablation system in the United States for AFL or in Europe. If we obtain regulatory approval from the FDA for our cryoablation system for AF but are unable to manufacture a sufficient supply of our cryoablation systems, our revenues, business and financial prospects would be materially adversely affected. In addition, if we obtain regulatory approval for our cryoablation system for AF, but the scaled up production process is not efficient or produces cryoablation systems that do not meet quality and other standards, our future gross margins, if any, will be adversely affected. We have never manufactured our Quantum catheter in large quantities, and we may experience delays and difficulties in our manufacturing of this catheter. Our Quantum catheter is more complicated to manufacture than our CryoBlator catheter, and our experience in manufacturing the initial prototypes indicate that it will take longer to manufacture a single Quantum catheter than as required to manufacture a single CryoBlator catheter. This complexity may delay our ability to advance the Quantum catheter into human clinical trials. However, we believe we will develop efficiencies in manufacturing our Quantum catheter to permit us to manufacture it in a commercially viable amount of time. For example, the time required to initially manufacture the Model 1100 catheter, and time required to initially 41 Table of Contents manufacture the Model 1200 catheter, were substantially longer than the time currently required to manufacture our CryoBlator catheter. In addition, after we have conducted further animal studies, we may determine that Quantum is not suitable for human use, and we may discontinue the development of the catheter. We must be licensed to handle and use hazardous materials and may be liable for contamination or other harm caused by hazardous materials that we use. We use hazardous materials in our research and development and manufacturing processes. We are subject to federal, state and local regulations governing use, storage, handling and disposal of these materials and waste products. We are currently licensed to handle such materials in all states in which we operate, but there can be no assurances that we will be able to retain those licenses in the future. In addition, we must become licensed in all states in which we plan to expand. Obtaining those additional licenses is an expensive and time consuming process, and in some cases we may not be able to obtain those licenses at all. Although we believe that our procedures for the use, handling, storing and disposing of these materials comply with legally prescribed standards, we cannot completely eliminate the risk of contamination or injury resulting from hazardous materials and we may incur liability as a result of any such contamination or injury. In the event of an accident, we could be held liable for damages or penalized with fines, and the liability could exceed our resources. We have also incurred and may continue to incur expenses related to compliance with environmental laws. Such future expenses or liability could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, we cannot assure you that the cost of complying with these laws and regulations will not materially increase in the future. Quality-control difficulties in our manufacturing processes could delay our clinical development programs and commercialization activities or prevent us from continuing the development of our product candidates. Our sterile products, including our catheters and our sheaths, must be produced in a highly controlled, clean environment to minimize foreign particles and other contaminants. Despite stringent quality controls, weaknesses in process control or minute impurities in materials may cause a substantial percentage of defective products in a lot. If we are unable to maintain stringent quality controls, or if contamination problems arise, our clinical development and commercialization activities in the United States and our sales efforts in Europe could be delayed or terminated, which would harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to obtain an adequate level of reimbursement for our products by third party payers, there may be no commercially viable markets for our product candidates or the markets may be much smaller than expected. The availability and amount of reimbursement by governmental and other third party payers affect the market for our products and product candidates. The effectiveness, safety, performance and cost-effectiveness of our products and product candidates and of any competing products will determine the availability and level of reimbursement. We believe that reimbursement may be subject to increased restrictions both in the United States and in international markets in the future. New legislation, regulation or reimbursement policies of third party payers may adversely affect the demand for our products and product candidates and limit our ability to sell our products and product candidates on a profitable basis. In addition, third party payers continually attempt to minimize or reduce the costs of healthcare by challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and services. Reimbursement and healthcare payment systems in international markets vary significantly by country, and include both government sponsored healthcare and private insurance. To obtain reimbursement or pricing approval in some countries, we may be required to produce clinical data, which may involve one or more clinical trials, that compares the cost-effectiveness of our products to other available therapies. We may not obtain international reimbursement or pricing approvals in a timely manner, or at all. Our failure to receive international reimbursement or pricing approvals would negatively impact market acceptance of our products in the international markets in which those approvals are sought. 42 Table of Contents If reimbursement for our products is unavailable or limited in scope or amount, or if pricing is set at unsatisfactory levels, market acceptance of our products would be impaired and our business, financial condition, results of operations and future revenues, if any, would be adversely affected. We may be subject, directly or indirectly, to federal and state healthcare fraud and abuse laws and regulations and, if we are unable to fully comply with such laws, could face substantial penalties. Our operations may be directly or indirectly affected by various broad state and federal healthcare fraud and abuse laws, including the Federal Healthcare Programs’ Anti-Kickback Statute, which prohibits any person from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting or receiving remuneration, directly or indirectly, to induce or reward either the referral of an individual for an item or service, or the ordering, furnishing or arranging for an item or service, for which payment may be made under federal healthcare programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs. If our past or present operations, including our consulting arrangements with physicians who use our product, are found to be in violation of these laws, we or our officers may be subject to civil or criminal penalties, including large monetary penalties, damages, fines, imprisonment and exclusion from Medicare and Medicaid program participation. If enforcement action were to occur, our business and financial condition would be harmed. We may be subject to federal and state false claims laws which impose substantial penalties. Now that we are selling our product in the United States, it is possible that some of our customers may file claims for reimbursement with government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. As a result, we may be subject to the federal False Claims Act if we knowingly “cause” the filing of false claims. Violations may result in substantial civil penalties, including treble damages. The federal False Claims Act also contains “whistleblower” or “qui tam” provisions that allow private individuals to bring actions on behalf of the government alleging that the defendant has defrauded the government. In recent years, the number of suits brought in the healthcare industry by private individuals has increased dramatically. Various states have enacted laws modeled after the federal False Claims Act, including “qui tam” provisions, and some of these laws apply to claims filed with commercial insurers. We are unable to predict whether we could be subject to actions under the federal False Claims Act, or the impact of such actions. However, the costs of defending claims under the False Claims Act, as well as sanctions imposed under the False Claims Act, could significantly affect our financial performance. If we are unable to establish adequate sales and marketing capabilities or enter into and maintain arrangements with third parties to sell and market our cryoablation system, our business may be harmed. We have just begun building a sales organization in the United States and have limited experience as a company in the sales, marketing and distribution of medical devices. Now that we have received FDA approval of our PMA for AFL, we are commercializing in the United States with a direct CryoCor sales force, and may market in the United States with a marketing partner. Developing a sales force is expensive and time consuming and could delay or limit the success of our commercialization activities. We may not be able to develop this capacity on a timely basis or at all. Additionally, due to our limited cash resources, we will not hire the additional personnel or make the capital expenditures that are necessary to broadly commercialize our cryoablation system unless we are able to raise additional financing on satisfactory terms. We may choose to contract with third parties, including distributors or agents, to perform sales, marketing and distribution services in the United States. If we enter into arrangements with third parties to perform sales, marketing and distribution services in the United States, our product revenues could be lower than if we directly sold, marketed and distributed our cryoablation system, or any other product that we may develop. Furthermore, if we enter into co-promotion or other marketing and sales arrangements with third parties, any revenues received will depend in part on the skills and efforts of these third parties, and we do not know whether these efforts will be successful. Some or all of our future distributors may have products or product candidates that compete with ours, and they may have an incentive not to devote their best efforts to marketing our products. 43 Table of Contents We have signed distribution agreements with third parties in Europe to market and sell our cryoablation system in the United Kingdom and Italy. In the near term, we do not intend to sign additional distribution agreements in Europe and we may never sign additional distribution agreements. If our relationships with our distributors do not progress as anticipated, if we seek to identify alternative distributors and are unable to do so, or if their sales and marketing strategies fail to generate sales of our products in the future, our business, financial condition and results of operations would be harmed. We have closed our subsidiary in Germany through which we historically distributed our product in Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany and as a result may no longer continue to sell our product in these geographic areas. The medical device industry is highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If our competitors are better able to develop and market products for similar indications that are safer, more effective, or gain greater acceptance in the marketplace than any products that we may develop, our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. The medical device industry is characterized by rapidly advancing technologies and a strong emphasis on proprietary products, designs and processes and intense competition. Our products and product candidates face and will face intense competition. Many of our competitors have significantly greater financial resources and expertise in research and development, manufacturing, preclinical testing, conducting clinical trials, obtaining regulatory approvals and marketing approved products than we do. Smaller or early stage companies may also prove to be significant competitors, particularly through collaborative arrangements with large and established companies. These third parties compete with us in recruiting and retaining qualified personnel, establishing clinical trial sites and patient registration for clinical trials, as well as acquiring technology and technology licenses complementary to our programs or advantageous to our business. Our competitors may: • develop and patent processes or products earlier than us; • obtain regulatory approvals for competing products more rapidly than us; and • develop safer, more effective and/or less expensive products or technologies that render our technology or products or product candidates obsolete or non-competitive. If any of the foregoing occurs, our business will be harmed and our commercial opportunities will be reduced or eliminated. We face the risk of product liability claims and may not be able to obtain insurance on favorable terms, or at all. Our business exposes us to the risk of product liability claims that are inherent in the testing, manufacturing and marketing of medical devices. We may be subject to product liability claims, including frivolous lawsuits, if our cryoablation system causes, or appears to have caused, an injury. Claims may be made by consumers, healthcare providers, third party strategic collaborators or others selling our products. Although we have product liability and clinical trial liability insurance that we believe is appropriate for our company, this insurance is subject to deductibles and coverage limitations. Our current product liability insurance may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all, and, if available, the coverage may not be adequate to protect us against any future product liability claims. If we are unable to obtain insurance at acceptable cost or on acceptable terms with adequate coverage or otherwise protect against potential product liability claims, we will be exposed to significant liabilities, which may harm our business. A product liability claim, recall or other claim with respect to uninsured liabilities or for amounts in excess of insured liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be subject to claims against us even if an alleged injury is due to the actions of others. For example, we rely on the expertise of physicians, nurses and other associated medical personnel to perform the medical procedures and related processes relating to our cryoablation system. If these medical personnel are not properly 44 Table of Contents trained or are negligent in using our cryoablation system, the therapeutic effect of our cryoablation system may be diminished or the patient may suffer critical injury, which may subject us to liability. In addition, an injury resulting from the activities of our suppliers may serve as a basis for a claim against us. We do not and will not promote our cryoablation system for off-label or otherwise unapproved uses. However, we cannot prevent a physician from using our cryoablation system for any off-label applications. If injury to a patient results from such an inappropriate use, we may become involved in a product liability suit, which will likely be expensive to defend. These liabilities could prevent or interfere with our clinical efforts, product development efforts and any subsequent product commercialization efforts. Defending a suit, regardless of merit, could be costly, could divert management attention and might result in adverse publicity, which could result in the withdrawal of, or inability to recruit, clinical trial volunteers or reduced acceptance of our products in the market. Failure to obtain additional regulatory approval in foreign jurisdictions will prevent us from expanding the commercialization of our products abroad. We may pursue marketing our products in a number of international markets. Although our cryoablation system has been approved for commercialization in the European Union, or EU, and for the treatment of AFL in the United States, in order to market our products in other foreign jurisdictions, we will need to obtain separate regulatory approvals. The approval procedure varies among jurisdictions and can involve substantial additional testing. Approval by the FDA does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions, and approval by one foreign regulatory authority does not ensure approval by regulatory authorities in other foreign jurisdictions or by the FDA. The foreign regulatory approval process may include all of the risks associated with obtaining FDA approval in addition to other risks. In addition, the time required to obtain foreign approval may differ from that required to obtain FDA approval and we may not obtain foreign regulatory approvals on a timely basis, if at all. We may not be able to file for regulatory approvals and may not receive necessary approvals to commercialize our products in any market other than in the EU and in the United States for the treatment of AFL. Our efforts to discover, develop and commercialize new product candidates beyond our cryoablation system are at an early stage and are subject to a high risk of failure. We expect that a key element of our strategy will be to discover, develop and commercialize new products for the treatment of AFL and AF as extensions of, or in addition to, our cryoablation system. For example, we are completing development of our next generation catheter, Quantum, which we expect to introduce into clinical testing in the first quarter of 2008. Research programs to identify new product candidates require substantial technical, financial and human resources, whether or not any product candidates are ultimately identified. Our research programs may initially show promise in identifying potential product candidates, yet fail to yield product candidates for clinical development for many reasons, including the following: • the research may not be successful in identifying potential product candidates; • there is a high rate of attrition for product candidates in preclinical trials; • competitors may develop alternatives that render our product candidates obsolete; and • product candidates may on further study be shown to have harmful side effects or other characteristics that indicate they are unlikely to be effective. If we fail to develop and commercialize new product candidates, our business would be harmed. 45 Table of Contents We are highly dependent on our officers and other employees, and if we are not able to retain them or to recruit and retain additional qualified personnel, our business will suffer. We are highly dependent upon our senior management and scientific staff. The loss of services of one or more of our members of senior management could delay or prevent the successful completion of our pivotal trials or the commercialization of our cryoablation system in the United States. Although we have employment agreements with each of our executive officers, their employment with us is “at will,” and each executive officer can terminate his agreement with us at any time. In February 2008, we amended our employment agreement with our CMO. Our CMO is currently on a leave of absence for personal reasons, and under the amended employment agreement, she can elect to terminate her employment with us for any reason between April 30, 2008 and May 31, 2008, and will be entitled to the severance benefits provided for in her existing employment agreement. We do not carry keyman insurance on any of our current executive officers. In the event we need to hire additional qualified scientific, commercial, operations, regulatory, quality assurance and control and administrative personnel, we may not be able to attract and retain qualified personnel on acceptable terms given the competition for such personnel among medical device companies. Our offices are located in San Diego, where competition for personnel with healthcare industry skills is intense. If we fail to identify, attract, retain and motivate these highly skilled personnel, or if we lose current employees, we may be unable to continue our development and commercialization activities. We may incur increased costs as a result of recently enacted and proposed changes in laws and regulations. Recently enacted and proposed changes in the laws and regulations affecting public companies, including the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, or the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and rules related to corporate governance and other matters subsequently adopted by the SEC and the Nasdaq Stock Market, or Nasdaq, could result in increased costs to us and may divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. The new rules and any related regulations that may be proposed in the future could make it more difficult or more costly for us to obtain certain types of insurance, including directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, and we may be forced to accept reduced policy limits and coverage or incur substantially higher costs to obtain the same or similar coverage. The impact of these events could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified persons to serve on our board of directors, our board committees or as executive officers. We are presently evaluating and monitoring developments with respect to new and proposed rules and cannot predict or estimate the amount of the additional costs we may incur or the timing of such costs. Legislative and regulatory proposals to amend the FDA regulatory and healthcare systems could impact our ability to sell our products profitably, if at all. In the United States in recent years, new legislation has been proposed at the federal and state levels that would effect major changes in the healthcare system. In addition, new regulations and interpretations of existing healthcare statutes and regulations are frequently adopted. Failure to achieve and maintain effective internal controls in accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. As a public company, we will be required to document and test our internal control procedures in order to satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which requires, among other things, annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and, for 2008, a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on our internal controls over financial reporting. During the course of our future testing, we may identify deficiencies which we may not be able to remediate in time to meet our deadline for compliance with Section 404. Testing and maintaining internal controls also involves significant costs and could divert our management’s attention from other matters that are important to our business. We may not be able to conclude on an ongoing basis that we have effective internal controls over financial reporting in accordance with Section 404, and our independent registered public accounting firm may not be able to issue an unqualified opinion on our internal 46 Table of Contents controls over financial reporting. Failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could harm our operating results and could cause us to fail to meet our reporting obligations. Inferior internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock. Changes in European to United States currency exchange rates may increase our expenses or reduce our revenues. We currently market our cryoablation system in certain foreign markets through European distributors. The related distribution agreements may provide for payments in a foreign currency. Accordingly, if the United States dollar strengthens against the euro or British pound sterling our United States dollar payments from such distributors, if any, will decrease. We may become exposed to fluctuations in other foreign currencies in the future, and our exposure to foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our stock price has been volatile and may continue to be volatile. Our stock price has been and may continue to be volatile. The stock market in general and the market for small medical device companies in particular have experienced extreme volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of particular companies. The price for our common stock will be determined in the marketplace and may be influenced by many factors, including: • developments, disputes or litigation concerning patents or other proprietary rights, including our current litigation with CryoCath; • failure of any of our products or product candidates to achieve commercial success; • results of our clinical trials; • failure of any of our product candidates to receive FDA or other regulatory approvals; • success or failure to raise any additional capital on a timely basis or on acceptable terms; • future sales of our common stock; • regulatory developments in the United States and foreign countries; • ability to manufacture our products to commercial standards; • public concern over our products; • the departure of key personnel; • variations in our financial results or those of companies that are perceived to be similar to us; • changes in the structure of healthcare payment systems; • changes in reimbursement; • investors’ perceptions of us; and • general economic, industry and market conditions. A decline in the market price of our common stock could cause our stockholders to lose some or all of their investment and may adversely impact our ability to attract and retain employees and raise capital. There can no assurance that in the future, the market price of our common stock will not be impacted by similar events. 47 Table of Contents Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws and applicable Delaware law may prevent or discourage third parties or our stockholders from attempting to replace our management or influencing significant decisions. Provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of us or our management, even if doing so would be beneficial to our stockholders. These provisions include: • dividing our board of directors into three classes serving staggered three-year terms; • authorizing our board of directors to issue preferred stock without stockholder approval; • prohibiting stockholder actions by written consent; • limiting the persons who may call special meetings of stockholders; • prohibiting our stockholders from making certain changes to our certificate of incorporation or bylaws except with 66 2/3% stockholder approval; and • requiring advance notice for raising business matters or nominating directors at stockholders’ meetings. We are also subject to provisions of the Delaware corporation law that, in general, prohibit any business combination with a beneficial owner of 15% or more of our common stock for three years unless the holder’s acquisition of our stock was approved in advance by our board of directors. Together, these charter and statutory provisions could make the removal of management more difficult and may discourage transactions that otherwise could involve payment of a premium over prevailing market prices for our common stock. Our principal stockholders and management own a significant percentage of our outstanding common stock and will be able to exercise significant influence over our affairs. Our executive officers, current directors and holders of five percent or more of our common stock, as of March 3, 2008, beneficially owned approximately 56.7% of our common stock based on the SEC’s rules for determining beneficial ownership. These stockholders will likely be able to determine the composition of our board of directors, retain the voting power to approve all matters requiring stockholder approval and continue to have significant influence over our operations. The interests of these stockholders may be different than the interests of other stockholders on these matters. This concentration of ownership could also have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in our control or otherwise discouraging a potential acquirer from attempting to obtain control of us, which in turn could reduce the price of our common stock. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 