RISK FACTORS We face a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell any of our main products, our revenue growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. A substantial portion of our revenues to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and to a lesser extent from sales of the Bravo system and our high resolution manometry products. We expect that a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $116.6 million, or 65%, of our revenues in 2012, $117.6 million, or 66%, of our revenues in 2011, and $110.2 million, or 70%, of our revenues in 2010. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell any of our main products, and PillCam SB in particular, for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, unavailability of components, hostilities in Israel or as a result of a legal action against us, our revenue growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. For discussion on our disaster preparedness, see Item 4 —“Information on the Company — Manufacturing — Manufacturing Facilities and Disaster-Preparedness.” Our future growth depends in part on our ability to market the PillCam SB capsule for additional indications other than obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. To date, the PillCam SB capsule, which accounts for a significant majority of our revenues, has been used primarily for detection of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB. Our ability to expand the use and increase utilization of the PillCam SB capsule for the detection and monitoring of additional small bowel abnormalities, such as Crohn’s disease, depends substantially on our ability to provide clinical evidence and economic analysis supporting such expanded use, our ability to educate and train our customers on these expanded use opportunities and our ability to obtain favorable and effective reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule for small bowel indications beyond OGIB. If we are unable to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule beyond OGIB, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may decline or may not increase. If we are unable to expand reimbursement coverage from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to create an economic benefit for purchasing or using our products when compared to alternative procedures, demand for our products may decline or may not grow. Demand for our products depends significantly on the eligibility of the procedures performed using our products for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and private third-party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region or state, and we must obtain reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country and/or region-by-region basis. In general, the process of obtaining reimbursement coverage approvals has been longer outside of the United States. Historically, we have experienced higher sales in territories in which we have received reimbursement coverage for our products and in territories in which health authorities and regulators approved the marketing or use of our products. We may not be able to obtain further approvals in a timely manner or at all and existing reimbursement coverage policies may be revised from time to time outside of our control by third-party payors. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is, or is perceived by our customers to be, insufficient to create an economic incentive for purchasing or using our products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers compared to the other procedures they offer, demand for our products may decline or may not grow. 3 If we are unable to market and sell our PillCam COLON capsule, we may miss a significant market opportunity and our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. We do not have regulatory clearance to market and sell PillCam COLON in the United States or Japan, two of our largest markets, and to date we have had only limited sales of our PillCam COLON capsule, primarily in countries relying on the CE mark certification system. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive clearance from the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, or the approval of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, for PillCam COLON in the foreseeable future or at all or that the PillCam COLON will be accepted as comparable or superior to existing technologies for visualization of the colon. In addition, any regulatory clearance or approval may be limited to specific indications only and may be more limited than the clearances or approvals for which we applied. Our ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully depends on one or more of the following: • Our ability to develop and introduce new technologies that will improve the clinical effectiveness of the PillCam COLON capsule. • Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States or regulatory approvals in other large markets such as Japan. • The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization of the colon as compared to other colon visualization methods. Physicians may be reluctant to use this product without supportive clinical data and literature. • The time it takes the physician to read the video captured by the PillCam COLON capsule. • The level of professional education and hands-on training of medical staff in performing the PillCam COLON procedure and reading and interpreting the images captured by the capsule, since the procedure and the reading are different than what many medical staff is used to with colonoscopy. • The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for physicians to use PillCam COLON in their practice, for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent “current procedural terminology,” or CPT, code and for private third-party payors to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure. • The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule that is accepted by physicians and patients. • The absence of other safe and effective colon cancer diagnostic or screening products, which, if brought to market by third parties, could make the PillCam COLON capsule obsolete. If we are unable to achieve one or more of the above, we may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule and our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for PillCam COLON before obtaining regulatory clearance in the United States and/or Japan, we may be unable to meet demand for this product. To date, we have been manufacturing our PillCam COLON capsule in a semi-automated manufacturing process, which is sufficient to meet the current demand for this product that is not yet cleared for marketing in the large markets of the United States and Japan. This capsule includes several components that are based on new technologies and are difficult to manufacture and some are being supplied to us by single source suppliers. If we are unable to develop or purchase manufacturing equipment, expand the number of suppliers for components of the PillCam COLON capsule or establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for this capsule, we may be unable to meet demand for this capsule when demand increases, as we expect, if we are able to obtain regulatory clearances in the United States and/or Japan. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions or grow acquired businesses, our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. In the last few years our revenue growth has been largely due to acquisitions, primarily the April 2010 acquisition of Sierra Scientific Instruments LLC, now known as Given Imaging (Los Angeles) LLC, and the 2008 acquisition of the Bravo business. In October 2012, we acquired substantially all of the assets of The Smart Pill Corporation, and we expect such assets to generate several million additional dollars in revenue in 2013. At the same time, our revenues from sales of capsule endoscopy equipment have not grown in the manner we had expected. If we are unable to complete additional acquisitions or grow acquired businesses, our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions, launches of new products and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. The principal factors affecting our gross margins are the volume of sales of our products, the sale prices, the product mix and the percentage of our sales made as direct sales. Our average gross margins over the last three fiscal years were 76.4%. Our gross margins in 2012 were 76.2%, compared to 76.7% in 2011 and 76.2% in 2010. There is no assurance we will be able to maintain or increase our gross margins. Our gross margins may be materially adversely affected if we acquire products having lower gross margins than our current products, if we launch a new product having lower gross margins than our existing products, if we reduce our prices due to promotional activities, competition or otherwise, or if our productivity declines for any reason. If our gross margins decline, our profitability may be adversely affected. 4 We may lose market share and our revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected due to competition. Olympus Corporation has a competing capsule endoscopy system for the small bowel, which it is selling in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia and other countries. In addition, other companies are selling capsule endoscopy systems for the small bowel in Europe, Asia and Australia and possibly other countries and may be selling these systems at a lower price than ours. We also have a number of competitors in and outside the United States in the field of manometry and pH measurement. If we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace, we may lose market share, experience delays in completing sales as a result of a longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of our gross margins as a result of price pressure. We face competition from large, well-established manufacturers of traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general which compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for our capsule endoscopy products also comes from traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases, such as traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Hoya, and Fuji Film. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, Philips Medical Systems Ltd. and Toshiba Corporation. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and they have established reputations as well as research and development resources and capabilities and worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If we are unable to convince physicians to adopt our capsule endoscopy products over technologies developed and marketed by our competitors, our results of operations may suffer. In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to our products, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology may compete with our products for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If we are unable to market our products more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. 5 Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our intellectual property. Protection of our intellectual property is key to our future success. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret, design and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection in terms of duration, geographic scope or otherwise, and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. For example, our patent portfolio in the United States is more robust than in other jurisdictions. Currently, many of our patent applications are still pending and we will be able to use them to protect our technology against potential competitors only after they are issued. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in issued patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or at all. Our patents and applications cover particular aspects of our products and technology and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. For more information regarding third party challenges to our patents see in 