Risk Factors. Risks Related to the Wholesale and Retail Energy Businesses The financial results of our wholesale and retail energy segments are subject to market risks beyond our control. Our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows are significantly impacted by the prevailing demand and market prices for electricity, purchased power, fuel and emission allowances over which we have no control. Market prices can fluctuate dramatically in response to many factors, including weather conditions; changes in the prices of related commodities; changes in law and regulation; regulatory intervention (including the imposition of price limitations, bidding rules or similar mechanisms); market illiquidity; transmission constraints; environmental limitations; generation unit outages; fuel supply issues; national and world-wide economic conditions; and other events. Current national and world-wide conditions may result in ongoing reduced demand for electricity, commodity price volatility, changes in law or regulation and other events. The markets in which we operate are relatively immature markets that are characterized by elements of both deregulated and regulated markets. Changes in the regulatory environment in which we operate could adversely affect our ability to set rates, or the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our business. We operate in a regulatory environment that is undergoing varying restructuring initiatives. In many instances, the regulatory structures governing the electricity markets are still evolving, creating gaps in the regulatory framework and associated uncertainty. In addition, existing regulations may be revised or reinterpreted and new laws and regulations may be adopted or become applicable to our facilities or our commercial activities. We cannot predict the future direction of these initiatives or the ultimate effect that this changing regulatory environment will have on our business. Consequently, future regulatory restrictions, regulatory or political intervention or changes in laws and regulations, may constrain our ability to set rates at market prices or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business. See “Business—Regulation” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K. The tightening of the supply and demand balance for electricity may result in significant long- and short-term price volatility in both our wholesale and retail businesses. Price volatility may result in legislative, regulatory or judicial initiatives intended to mitigate the impact of such volatility. The permitting and construction of new generation facilities is a lengthy process. Additionally, the progressive tightening of environmental regulatory requirements and their reflection in permits and regulations may result in generation facilities being removed from service prior to their end of useful life or derated permanently or temporarily. As a result, there may be periods when the supply of electricity is reduced or constrained relative to the demand for electricity. During these periods the wholesale price and retail price of electricity may increase significantly. In response to this, legislators, regulators, consumers and others may seek legislative, regulatory or judicial relief in an attempt to control or limit the wholesale price and/or the retail price of electricity. 11 Table of Contents We depend on sources, facilities and systems that we do not own or control for our fuel and fuel supply and to deliver electricity to and bill our customers. Any disruption in these sources, facilities or systems could have an adverse effect on our business. We depend on fuel sources and fuel supply facilities owned and operated by third parties to supply our generation plants. We depend on power transmission and distribution facilities and metering systems owned and operated by third parties to deliver electricity to our customers and provide energy usage data. If these sources, facilities or systems fail, are disrupted or become unavailable to us, we may be unable to generate and/or provide electricity, our cost of doing so may significantly increase and/or we may be subject to contractual or other penalties. In addition, inaccurate or untimely information from third parties could hinder our ability to bill customers and collect amounts owed. We also participate in regional power pools, reliability councils and transmission organizations and changes in the rules governing such groups and/or in the composition of such groups may have an adverse effect on our business. Participation in RTOs is voluntary, and transmission owning companies may exit an RTO so long as they do so in compliance with the applicable FERC tariffs and agreements and FERC approval. The operation of generation facilities involves significant risks that could interrupt operations and increase our costs. Ownership of generation assets exposes us to risks relating to the breakdown of equipment or processes; fuel supply or transportation interruptions; construction delays or cost overruns; shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, material and labor; operational restrictions resulting from environmental limitations and governmental interventions; as well as other risks. In addition, many of our facilities are old and require significant maintenance expenditures. We are party to collective bargaining agreements with labor unions at several of our plants. If our workers were to engage in a strike, work stoppage or other slowdown, other employees were to become unionized or the terms and conditions in future labor agreements were renegotiated, we could experience a significant disruption in our operations and higher ongoing labor costs. Similarly, we have an aging workforce at a number of our plants creating potential knowledge and expertise gaps as those workers retire. If we are unable to secure fuel, we will not be able to run our generation units. Construction delays could cause extended and/or unplanned outages of our generation facilities. If a generation unit fails or is unavailable, we may have to purchase replacement power from third parties at higher prices. We have insurance, subject to limits and deductibles, covering some types of physical damage and business interruption related to our generation units. However, this insurance may not always be available on commercially reasonable terms. In addition, there is no assurance that insurance proceeds will be sufficient to cover all losses, insurance payments will be timely made or the policies themselves will be free of substantial deductibles. Our business operations expose us to the risk of loss if third parties fail to perform their contractual obligations. We may incur losses if third parties default on their contractual obligations, such as obligations to pay us money; buy or sell electricity, fuel, emission allowances and other commodities; or provide us with fuel transportation services, power transmission or distribution services. For additional information about third party default risk, including our efforts to mitigate against this risk, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Credit Risk” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and note 2(g) to our consolidated financial statements. Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant and can affect our future financial results. Our wholesale energy business is subject to extensive and evolving environmental regulations, particularly our coal- and oil-fired generation facilities. We incur significant costs in complying with these regulations and, if we fail to comply, could incur significant penalties. Our cost estimates for compliance with environmental regulations are based on our current assessment of the cost of labor and materials and the state of evolving technologies. Changes to the preceding factors, revisions of environmental regulations, litigation and new 12 Table of Contents legislation and/or regulations (including new climate change legislation and regulations), as well as other factors, could cause our actual costs to vary outside the range of our estimates. In addition, failure to comply with environmental requirements could require us to shut down or reduce production on our generation facilities or create liability exposure. New environmental laws or regulations may be adopted that would further constrain our operations or increase our environmental compliance costs. We also may be responsible for the environmental liabilities associated with generation facilities even if a prior owner caused the liabilities. We are required to surrender emission allowances equal to emissions of specific substances to operate our facilities. Surrender requirements may require purchase of allowances which may be unavailable or only available at costs that would make it uneconomical to operate our generating assets. See “Business—Environmental Matters” in Item 1 of this Form 10-K and note 13(c) to our consolidated financial statements. Failure to obtain or maintain any required permits or approvals could prevent or limit us from operating our business. To operate our generating facilities and retail electric business, we must obtain and maintain various permits, licenses, approvals and certificates from governmental agencies. In some jurisdictions, we must also meet minimum requirements for customer service and comply with local consumer protection and other laws. Our failure to obtain or maintain any necessary governmental permits or licenses or to satisfy these legal requirements, including environmental compliance provisions, could limit our ability to operate our business or create liability exposure. We could be liable for a share of the payment defaults of other market participants. If a market participant defaults on its payment obligations to an ISO, we, together with other market participants, are liable for a portion of the default obligation that is not otherwise covered by the defaulting market participant. Each ISO establishes credit requirements applicable to market participants and the basis for allocating payment default amounts to market participants. In ERCOT, the allocation is based on share of the total load. As of December 31, 2008, we would have been liable for approximately 21% of any defaulted amount in ERCOT. In PJM, MISO and Cal ISO, the methods of allocating the share of defaults differ, and our exposure from these markets is currently relatively small. Significant events beyond our control, such as hurricanes and other weather-related problems or acts of terrorism, could have a material adverse effect on our business. The uncertainty associated with events beyond our control, such as significant weather events and the risk of future terrorist activity, may affect our results of operations and financial condition in unpredictable ways. These events could result in adverse changes in the insurance markets and disruptions of power and fuel markets. In addition, significant weather events or terrorist actions could damage or shut down our generation facilities or the fuel and fuel supply facilities or the power transmission and distribution facilities upon which our generation and retail businesses are dependent. Power supply may be sold at a loss if these events cause a significant loss of retail customer load. We do not have business interruption insurance related to our retail energy business. These events could also adversely affect the United States economy, create instability in the financial markets and, as a result, have an adverse effect on our ability to access capital on terms and conditions acceptable to us. Risks Relating to Our Retail Business Merrill Lynch, credit support provider for our retail business, contends we have violated the terms of the credit support agreement. Under the terms of our credit-enhanced retail structure entered into in December 2006, Merrill Lynch provides guarantees and posts collateral for the supply purchases and related transactions of our retail energy business. Merrill Lynch contends that we violated the credit sleeve and reimbursement agreement (the agreement) when we terminated our working capital facility with them in December 2008, and has filed an 13 Table of Contents action in a New York Court seeking a judgment declaring an event of default under the agreement. If Merrill Lynch is successful with its claim, it could seek to exercise remedies under the agreement. There is a range of possible remedies available to Merrill Lynch under the agreement, including, without limitation: • declaring an unwind of the agreement, which would result in Merrill Lynch ceasing to provide credit support for new retail supply and hedging transactions; • delivering notice to our retail supply counterparties that future transactions will not have Merrill Lynch collateral support; and • seeking to foreclose on its collateral, the assets comprising our retail energy business. Depending on the specific remedy that Merrill Lynch may elect to pursue, cross defaults could occur under our June 2007 credit facilities. Although we would seek a waiver from the lenders to avoid any cross defaults, such waiver may not be available on commercially reasonable terms and we may choose to terminate the June 2007 credit facilities. If we were to do so, we may be required to post cash for outstanding letters of credit. For these credit facilities, as of December 31, 2008, we have $0 outstanding in debt, $296 million outstanding as letters of credit and $454 million as available liquidity. There are a number of events, including non-payments of obligations and a non-investment-grade credit rating that could cause Merrill Lynch to default under our credit-enhanced retail structure. Furthermore, if Merrill Lynch experiences downgrades in its credit rating or credit outlook, our suppliers may require other credit support or cease doing business with us pursuant to the credit-enhanced retail structure. If any of these events occurs, our ability to operate our retail business could be impaired and our liquidity, cash flows and results of operations could be adversely affected. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity and Capital Resources” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and notes 7 and 13(b) to our consolidated financial statements. We may have to post significant amounts of collateral, which could adversely affect our liquidity, financial position and business. In connection with any unwind of our credit-enhanced retail structure with Merrill Lynch, we will have to post collateral for new retail supply and hedging transactions. Our levels of collateral postings would be determined and impacted by the terms and timing of the unwind, the nature and volume of our commodity hedging agreements, commodity prices and other strategic alternatives that we may undertake. Depending on the specific timing and the movement in underlying commodity prices, we could incur significant collateral posting obligations that may require us to seek additional sources of liquidity, including additional debt. The covenants in our credit agreements and our agreement with Merrill Lynch restrict our ability to, among other things, obtain additional financing. If we were unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations or raise cash from other sources, we may not be able to meet our collateral posting obligations. These situations could result from further adverse developments in the energy, fuel or capital markets, a disruption in our operations or those of third parties or other events adversely affecting our cash flows and financial performance. We cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such additional liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Volatile power supply costs and demand for power could adversely affect the financial performance of our retail business. We purchase substantially all of our supply requirements from third parties. As a result, our financial performance depends on our ability to obtain adequate supplies of electric generation from third parties at prices below the prices we charge our customers. Our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected in any period in which our power supply costs rise at a greater rate than our rates charged to customers. The price of our power supply purchases associated with our energy commitments can be different than that reflected in the rates charged to customers due to, among other factors: • varying supply procurement contracts used and the timing of entering into related contracts; • subsequent changes in the overall price of natural gas; 14 Table of Contents • daily, monthly or seasonal fluctuations in the price of natural gas relative to the 12-month forward prices; • transmission constraints and our ability to move power to our customers; and • changes in market heat rate (i.e., the relationship between power and natural gas prices). Our earnings and cash flows could also be adversely affected in any period in which the demand for power significantly varies from our forecasted supply, which could occur due to, among other factors, weather events, competition and economic conditions. We may lose further market share in the Houston retail electricity market. In recent years, we have experienced declines in our share of the Houston retail electricity market, which represents approximately 65% of our residential and small business customer base. This trend could continue. The new competitive market has attracted a number of new participants. Competitors are putting downward pressure on our Houston sales volumes and may put downward pressure on our margins over time. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Overview” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Violations of market power standards may negatively impact the wholesale cost of power. In 2006, the PUCT implemented a new rule on resource adequacy and market power in the ERCOT Region. In this rule, the PUCT increased the current price cap applicable to generation offers into the ERCOT energy market, eliminated current market power mitigation measures and adopted new market power standards. If a market participant violates the market power standards and it is not adequately mitigated, such violation could have the impact of increasing the wholesale cost of power, which could adversely impact our gross margins in the Texas retail market. We depend on the ISOs to communicate operating and system information in a timely and accurate manner. Information that is not accurate or timely can have an impact on our current and future reported financial results. Each ISO communicates information relating to a customer’s choice of retail electric provider and other data needed for servicing of customer accounts to utilities and retail electric providers. Any failure to perform these tasks will result in delays and other problems in enrolling, switching and billing customers. Some of the ISOs are also responsible for settling all electricity supply volumes in their region. Information that is not accurate or timely may result in incorrect estimates of our settled volumes and supply costs that would need to be corrected when such information is received. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—New Accounting Pronouncements, Significant Accounting Policies and Critical Accounting Estimates—Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to Our Company Our borrowing levels, debt service obligations and restrictive covenants may adversely affect our business. We may be vulnerable to reductions in our cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, we had total debt of $2.9 billion: • We must dedicate a portion of our cash flows to pay debt service requirements, which reduces the amount of cash available for other business purposes; • The covenants in our debt agreements and in our agreement with Merrill Lynch restrict our ability to, among other things, obtain additional financing, make investments or acquisitions, create additional liens on our assets and take other actions to react to changes or opportunities in our business; 15 Table of Contents • If we do not comply with the payment and other material covenants under our debt agreements and our agreement with Merrill Lynch, we could be required to repay our debt immediately and, in the case of our revolving credit facilities, terminate their commitment to lend us money; and • Our debt levels and credit ratings may affect the evaluation of our creditworthiness by suppliers or customers, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt or investment grade credit ratings. If we were unable to generate sufficient cash flows, access funds from operations or raise cash from other sources, we would not be able to meet our debt service and other obligations. These situations could result from adverse developments in the energy, fuel or capital markets, a disruption in our operations or those of third parties or other events adversely affecting our cash flows and financial performance. See further discussion of risks related to our credit-enhanced retail structure under “Risks Related to our Retail Business.” Our hedging and other risk management activities may not work as planned. Our hedges may not be effective as a result of basis price differences, transmission issues, price correlation, volume variations or other factors, including margins being compressed as a result of market prices behaving differently than expected. See “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Changes in the wholesale energy market or changes in our evaluation of generation assets could result in impairments. If our outlook for the wholesale energy market changes negatively, or if our ongoing evaluation of our wholesale energy segment results in decisions to mothball, retire or dispose of generation assets, we could have impairment charges related to our fixed assets. See note 2(i) to our consolidated financial statements. Lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and tax proceedings could adversely affect our future financial results. From time to time, we are named as a party to, or our property is the subject of, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings or tax proceedings. These proceedings involve highly subjective matters with complex factual and legal questions. Their outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could result in significant damage claims and other losses. Even if we prevail, any proceedings could be costly and time-consuming and would divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. See notes 11, 13 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements. We have entered into outsourcing arrangements with third party service providers. In addition, our operations are highly dependent on computer and other operating systems, including telecommunications systems. Any interruptions in these arrangements or systems could significantly disrupt our business operations. In recent years, we have entered into outsourcing arrangements, such as information technology production software, infrastructure and development and certain functions within customer operations, with third party service providers. If these service providers do not perform their obligations, we may incur significant costs and experience interruptions in our business operations in connection with switching to other service providers or assuming these obligations ourselves. We are also highly dependent on our specialized computer and communications systems, the operation of which could be interrupted by fire, flood, power loss, computer viruses or similar disruptions. There is no guarantee that our backup systems and disaster recovery plans will be effective. 16 Table of Contents If we acquire or develop additional generation assets, or dispose of existing generation assets, we may incur additional costs and risks. We may seek to purchase or develop additional generation facilities or dispose of existing generation facilities. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. In any sale, we may be required to indemnify a purchaser against liabilities. To finance future acquisitions, we may be required to issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt. We cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such additional liquidity on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Our process of exploring strategic alternatives may not be successful. On October 6, 2008, we announced that our Board of Directors authorized the exploration of strategic alternatives to enhance stockholder value. There can be no assurance that the exploration of strategic alternatives will result in a transaction, or that the benefits of any strategic alternative pursued will in fact be realized. The pendency of this process may create uncertainties with current and potential customers, employees, suppliers and business partners. In addition, the market price of our stock may be volatile as we explore strategic alternatives, and volatility may persist or be increased if and when a decision to pursue an alternative is announced or we announce that we are no longer exploring strategic alternatives. Other Risks For other company risks, see “Business” in Item 1 and “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 