RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We face increasing competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market which may result in further reductions in tariffs and loss of market share and could affect our future revenues and profitability. We are experiencing increasing competition from competing service providers in the Norwegian market for telecommunications services. Generally, the Norwegian regulatory regime poses few barriers to entry for new competitors. In fixed network services, a number of regulatory measures have been introduced that have strengthened and may strengthen the position of our competitors. Pursuant to regulatory requirements, we introduced carrier pre-selection for our customers in November 2000, enabling them to select alternative service providers. In April 2000, we began offering interconnection services for our local access network, or local loop, at cost-oriented prices. Competitors may also use alternative technologies, such as cable or wireless local loop connections, to provide telecommunications services, and in March 2000 the Norwegian regulator awarded licenses to our competitors to provide wireless access services. From 2003 onwards, we have offered wholesale line rental (PSTN and ISDN) to other operators, enabling the operators of telephony traffic to deliver fixed telephony subscription to their customers using our fixed network. Such unbundled telephony access also means that subscriptions and traffic may be delivered separately by different operators. In addition, a number of service providers have recently launched Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which is a competitive technology to traditional telephony in the consumer market. In the mobile market, there are two Universal Mobile Telephony Service (UMTS) license holders apart from us, one of which is our primary competitor in the Norwegian mobile market, NetCom. The second license holder, Hi3G, a new entrant to the Norwegian mobile market, was awarded its license in August 2003. Apart from enjoying more favorable license conditions than NetCom and us, Hi3G was permitted to immediately claim national roaming in the existing GSM networks. Currently, several mobile service providers utilize our infrastructure, or that of our primary competitor, and the regulator may require us to reduce the prices we charge to these service providers. You should read “Risks related to regulatory matters” for further information. We have also launched an MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) offer in the market. Furthermore, pursuant to regulatory requirements, we provide network access to external providers of short messaging services (SMS). As competition continues to intensify, we expect that market pressures may require us to reduce tariffs further and to increase our marketing and sales expenses. However, we may nonetheless lose further market share, which may adversely affect our revenue growth and profit margin since the effect of lost market share in the retail market is unlikely to be fully offset by providing wholesale services to competing service providers. If we fail to successfully develop and market new mobile communications services, our ability to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications services in the Norwegian market and the more mature international markets in which we operate may be limited. Because of our high market share, the current high penetration rate and increased competition in the mobile telephony market in Norway and certain more mature international markets in which we operate, such as Denmark and Hungary, we expect that further revenue growth in mobile communications in these countries will depend on our ability to successfully develop and market new applications and services or have third parties provide services using our network. In particular, it is our goal to stimulate demand for value-added services. Failure to successfully do so may impair our ability to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications services in these countries. 10 Table of Contents Lack of control, or failure to increase our ownership and thus gain control, over companies in which we have minority interests, or disagreements with other principal shareholders, may impede our strategic objectives. As part of our strategy, we continue to intend to expand our minority ownership interests in, and gain control of, some of our investments in order to exercise a controlling influence over key business decisions, including the approval of strategy and business plans. If we fail to increase our ownership interests and gain control, our cost savings and revenue enhancement from these operations may be limited. A failure to increase our ownership interest in our associated companies may limit our ability to influence key business or strategic decisions, particularly in situations in which we disagree with other principal shareholders. Our ability to influence key business or strategic decisions in our associated company VimpelCom, a Russian mobile operator, is closely linked to the fact that VimpelCom’s charter currently requires certain decisions to be approved by 80% of the members of VimpelCom’s board of directors. If the decision of the Cassation Court of Krasnodarsky Krai requiring VimpelCom to amend this provision of the charter is upheld, as we have only three nominees on the current nine-member board of directors of VimpelCom, our ability to influence decisions about important matters, including the acquisition of shareholdings in other companies, may be adversely affected. In addition, if the other shareholders fail to adequately support these companies, or disagree with us over key corporate actions, such companies may not be able to compete or operate effectively and the value of our investments may be impaired. For example, Ukrainian law requires the attendance of shareholders holding more than 60% of a company’s share capital for a quorum to be present at shareholder meetings, and the charter of Kyivstar, our Ukrainian mobile operator, requires the attendance of at least one director from Storm, the other shareholder in Kyivstar, for a valid quorum at board meetings. Accordingly, disagreements with Storm resulting in the failure of Storm or its nominees to attend meetings could adversely affect the ability of Kyivstar to operate effectively. Your should read “