RISK FACTORS We face a number of risks that may adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. The risks described below are not the only risks facing our Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and/or operating results. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell any of our main products, our revenue growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. A substantial portion of our revenues to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and to a lesser extent from sales of the Bravo system and Sierra’s high resolution manometry products. We expect that a majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $110.2 million, or 70% of our revenues in 2010, $110 million, or 78%, of our revenues in 2009, and $103 million, or 82% of our revenues, in 2008. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell any of our main products, and PillCam SB in particular, for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, unavailability of components, hostilities in Israel or as a result of a legal action against us, our revenue growth and profit ability could be materially adversely affected. For discussion on our disaster preparedness, see Item 4 — “Information on the Company — Manufacturing — Manufacturing Facilities and Disaster-Preparedness.” Our future growth depends in part on our ability to market the PillCam SB capsule for additional indications other than obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. The PillCam SB capsule has been cleared for marketing by the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, for the visualization and detection of abnormalities of the small intestine. In recent years, sales of PillCam SB capsules have accounted for the significant majority of our revenues. To date, the PillCam SB capsule has been used primarily for detection of obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB. Our ability to expand the use and increase utilization of the PillCam SB capsule for the detection of additional small bowel abnormalities, such as Crohn’s disease, depends substantially on our ability to provide clinical evidence and economic analysis supporting such expanded use, our ability to educate and train our customers on these expanded use opportunities and our ability to obtain favorable and ef fective reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule for small bowel indications beyond OGIB. If we are unable to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule beyond OGIB, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may decline or not increase as we expect. If we are unable to expand reimbursement coverage from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is insufficient to create an economic benefit for purchasing or using our products when compared to alternative procedures, demand for our products may not grow at the rate we expect. Demand for our products depends significantly on the eligibility of the procedures performed using our products for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and private third-party payors. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region, and we must obtain reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country and/or region-by-region basis. In general, the process of obtaining reimbursement coverage approvals has been longer outside of the United States. Historically, we have experienced higher sales in territories in which we have received reimbursement coverage for our products and in territories in which health authorities and regulators approved the marketing or use of our products. We may not be able to obtain further approvals in a ti mely manner or at all and existing reimbursement coverage policies may be revised from time to time outside of our control by third-party payors. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payors for procedures using our products, or if reimbursement is, or is perceived by our customers to be, insufficient to create an economic incentive for purchasing or using our products or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers compared to the other procedures they offer, demand for our products may decline or not grow at the rate we expect. 3 If we are unable to market and sell our PillCam COLON capsule, we may miss a significant market opportunity and our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. We do not have regulatory clearance to market and sell PillCam COLON in the United States or Japan and to date we have had only limited sales of our PillCam COLON capsule in countries relying on the CE mark certification system. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive FDA clearance or the approval of the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, or MHLW, for PillCam COLON in the foreseeable future or at all or that the PillCam COLON will be accepted as comparable or superior to existing technologies for visualization or screening of the colon. Our ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully depends on one or more of the following: • Our ability to develop and introduce new technologies that will improve the clinical effectiveness of the PillCam COLON capsule. • Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States or regulatory approvals in other countries such as Japan: We cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, we will be required to demonstrate that the PillCam COLON is safe and effective for its intended purpose. • The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization or screening of the colon as compared to other colon visualization or screening methods: If clinical trials indicate that PillCam COLON is not as clinically-effective as other current methods, or if the PillCam COLON procedure causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell this capsule or physicians may be reluctant to use it. • The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for physicians to use PillCam COLON in their practice, for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent “current procedural terminology,” or CPT, code and for private third-party payors to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure. • The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule that is accepted by physicians and patients. • The absence of other safe and effective colon cancer screening products, which, if brought to market by third parties, could make the PillCam COLON capsule obsolete. If we are unable to achieve one or more of the above, we may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule or the demand for the PillCam COLON may be lower than expected and our revenue growth could be materially adversely affected. Acquisitions, launch of new products and other factors may have a material adverse effect on our gross margins and profitability. The principal factors affecting our gross margins are the volume of sales of our disposable products, the sale prices, the product mix and the percentage of our sales made as direct sales. Our average gross margins over the last three fiscal years were 75.5%. Our gross margins in 2010 were76.2%, compared to 76.6% in 2009 and 73.6% in 2008. There is no assurance we will be able to maintain or increase our gross margins. Our gross margins may be materially adversely affected if we acquire products having lower gross margins than our current products, if we launch a new product having lower gross margins than our existing products, if we reduce our prices due to promotional activities, competition or otherwise, or if our productivity declines for any reason. If our gross margins decline, our profitability may be materially adversely affected. If we are unable to establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for PillCam COLON before obtaining regulatory clearance in the United States and/or Japan, we may not be able to meet demand for this product. To date, we have been manufacturing our new PillCam COLON capsule in a semi-automated manufacturing process, which is sufficient to meet the current demand for this product that is not yet cleared for marketing in the large markets of the United States and Japan. This capsule includes several components that are based on new technologies and are difficult to manufacture and many are being supplied to us by single source suppliers. If we are unable to develop or purchase manufacturing equipment, expand the number of suppliers for components of the PillCam COLON capsule or establish a robust, high volume manufacturing process for this capsule, we may not be able to meet demand for this capsule when demand increases, as we expect, if we are able to obtain regulatory clearances in the United States and/or Japan. 4 If we do not successfully integrate the business of Sierra Scientific Instruments into our existing operational infrastructure our revenue growth and profitability could be materially adversely affected. In April 2010, we acquired Sierra Scientific Instruments, LLC, or Sierra. Our operational plan includes integration of Sierra into our company-wide operations, including our IT infrastructure, sales administration, financial management, customer service functions, and migration of certain manufacturing operations from the United States to Israel and Vietnam. It is anticipated that this integration will reduce our overall operating expense and increase margins. If we do not effectively execute the integration, we could experience delay or interruption in execution of business process, customer service or product production. This could result in loss of revenues and lower gross margin and profitability of the Sierra products. If we do not successfully integrate Sierra’s sales organization and international distribution channels into our regional business units, we may lose market share and our revenues may decline. Our commercial operations plan includes integration of Sierra sales and distribution activities into our regional commercial management organizations. This integration is intended to leverage existing management and resources to provide increased marketing exposure, sales territory coverage, and efficiencies of scale in our distribution channels outside the United States. The utilization of these resources and channels for the Sierra product line is untested. If we do not realize anticipated synergies either due to ineffective execution of the integration or by overestimation of their benefit, we may lose market share and our revenues and profitability from the Sierra products could decline. We may lose market share and our revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected due to competition. Olympus Corporation has a competing capsule endoscopy system for the small bowel, which it is selling in the United States, Europe, Japan, Australia and other countries. In addition, other companies from South Korea and China are selling capsule endoscopy systems for the small bowel in Europe, Asia and Australia and possibly other countries and may be selling these systems at a lower price than ours. We also have a number of competitors in and outside the United States in the field of manometry and pH measurement competing with our Bravo and Sierra products. If we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace, we may lose market share, experience delays in completing sales as a result of longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of our gross margins as a result of price pressure. 5 We face competition from large, well-established manufacturers of traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general which compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for our capsule endoscopy products also comes from traditional technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases, such as traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Hoya, and Fuji Film. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, Philips Medical Systems Ltd. and Toshiba Corporation. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and they have established reputations as well as research and development resources and capabilities and worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If we are unable to convince physicians to adopt our capsule endoscopy products over technologies developed and marketed by our competitors, our results of operations may suffer. For details regarding our cooperation agreement with Fuji Film, see Item 4 — “Business Overview — Competition.” In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to our products, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology may compete with our products for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If we are unable to market our products more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our technology. Protection of our technology is key to our future success. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret, design and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection in terms of duration, geographic scope or otherwise, and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Currently, many of our patent applications are still pending and we will be able to use them to protect our technology against potential competitors only after they are issued. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in issued patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or at all. Our patents and applications cover particular aspects of our products and technology and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. There may be other effective technologies, designs or methods relating to capsule endoscopy. If other effective methods are not covered by our patents or applications and our competitors are able to commercialize products using these methods, it could have an adverse effect on our sales. In addition, our competitors or other parties may obtain patents that will prevent us from using technologies, designs or methods we would like to integrate into our products. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by former employees. The laws and judicial systems of foreign countries may not protect or enable enforcement of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States or at all. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or ot her parties could make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. Because the medical device industry is litigious, we are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. While we have attempted to ensure that our products do not infringe other parties’ valid patents and proprietary rights, searches typically performed to identify potentially infringed patents of third parties are not always conclusive and, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending, which may later result in issued patents which our current or future products may infringe. In addition, our competitors or other parties may assert that our product and the methods it employs may be covered by patents held by them . If our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from manufacturing or selling them unless we can obtain a license or redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from operating our business. 6 If we are unable to successfully manage the introduction of new or improved products into the market, our operating results may be negatively affected. We began marketing and selling our capsule endoscopy products in August 2001. Since then, we have introduced new products or significant improvements to existing components of our products frequently. Newer products or system components may not be able to support and work with older product versions. In order for as many of our customers as possible to utilize our most advanced technology, we need to manage new product introductions and installations efficiently, addressing concerns of customers regarding product upgrade costs, time constraints and training and education in light of possible short product life cycles. If we are unable to cause our customers to use the most advanced technology available or effectively address compatibility issues between older and newer products, we may harm our competitive position a nd our sales may be negatively affected. In addition, a failure to successfully manage the transition to newer products may result in obsolete inventory of older products, which we may be required to write off. If we are unable to introduce new capsules and products for use in the gastrointestinal tract, our growth may be negatively affected. Our objective is to expand the use of our capsule endoscopy and other products for a variety of indications. We intend to continue developing and introducing new capsules and products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new products that will enjoy widespread market acceptance as superior offerings to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that can be used in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, we may be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing our existing products for use in parts of the gastrointestinal tract for which they are not indicated, or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract . These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of new products, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of these new products. If future clinical trials indicate that new products are not as clinically-effective or cost-effective as current methods, or that they may cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell these new products or obtain reimbursement coverage, and our growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the United States, our primary market for our products, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. Most of our revenues since our inception have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for $97 million, or 61%, of our revenues in 2010, $89.7 million, or 63%, of our revenues in 2009, and $74 million, or 59%, of our revenues in 2008. Any disruption to our operations or market in the United States resulting from changes in management or the sales team of our U.S. subsidiary, adverse changes in reimbursement policies, new regulatory requirements, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside our control, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our products in Japan, one of our significant potential growth opportunities may be materially and adversely affected. We sell our products in Japan through Suzuken Co. Ltd., a large Japanese pharmaceutical wholesaler, which also owns approximately 7.0% of our Japanese subsidiary, and through Fuji Medical Co. Ltd., or Fuji Medical, an affiliate of Fuji Film Corporation. Our ability to increase penetration into the Japanese market and grow our business depends significantly on the success of our distributors and our ability to manage multiple non-exclusive distributors in the same territory. In addition, marketing our other products in Japan will require additional, product-specific regulatory clearances. Generally, the process for obtaining marketing clearance for medical devices in Japan could range from twelve months, in the case of products with only very minor modifications from previous cleared product versions, to a few years, in the case of a completely new device. There is no assurance that we will receive regulatory clearances in Japan for any of our additional products. Finally, our main competitor in the field of capsule endoscopy is based in Japan and competition may be intense. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our products in Japan for any of the foregoing or other reasons, one of our significant potential growth opportunities will be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA, including quality regulations, which could restrict the sale and marketing of our products and could cause us to incur significant costs. FDA regulations may require us to submit for clearance improvements and modifications of our products, including new or improved PillCam capsules and new or improved RAPID software versions, before we are allowed to market them in the United States. FDA regulations also prohibit us from promoting or advertising our cleared products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or making unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Currently, our capsule endoscopy system has been cleared by the FDA for the detection of abnormalities of the small intestine and visualization of the esophagus. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar FDA actions which could l imit product sales or delay or halt product shipment. Additionally, if we are unable to receive FDA clearance for new or improved products, such as PillCam COLON, the marketing and sale of these products will be delayed or cancelled, which in turn may materially and adversely affect our growth potential. Changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements may make it more difficult or prevent us from obtaining marketing clearance for our products in the United States and could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 7 We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA also requires us to adhere to the Quality System Regulation, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of our products. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through inspections. Our quality system is also subject to the Medical Devices Directive of the European Union requiring compliance with the International Standard Organization’s standards ISO 9001:2000 and ISO 13485:2003, wh ich are quality standards setting forth requirements for medical device manufacturers that are more specific than the general requirements specified in ISO 9001. If we fail a Quality System Regulation inspection by the FDA or a similar inspection by any other regulator, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. Failure of the Quality System Regulation inspection or other similar inspection could result in a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of our products, which would have a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we fail to meet safety and quality requirements we may incur significant costs to recall our products from the market, lose market share and damage our reputation. As a manufacturer of medical devices, our products are subject to safety and quality regulations. These regulations require us to report to regulatory bodies events where our products may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. Irrespective of an injury to any person, if we fail to meet these safety and quality requirements, we may need to recall our products from the market, or make changes to our products or shutdown our manufacturing operations, which in turn will result in losing market share, lower revenues and earnings and damage to our reputation. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country or region, we will not be able to market and sell our products in that country or region. In addition to the United States, Germany, France, Australia, Hong Kong, Canada and Israel, where we market and sell our products directly with our own direct sales and marketing organizations, we sell our products in more than 75 other countries through local distributors or representatives. To be able to market and sell our products in a specific country or region, we or our distributors must comply with the regulations of that country or region. While the regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling part or all of our products or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for reg ulatory review vary from country to country. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals for all of our products in each country or region in which we plan to market our products. If we modify our products, we or our distributors may need to apply for new regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell them. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations in a particular country or region, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country or region, and our ability to generate revenues will be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to comply with radio frequency regulations in a specific country or region could impair our ability to commercially distribute and market products using radio frequency in such country or region. Some of our products, such as our capsule endoscopy and Bravo systems include a wireless radio frequency transmitter and receiver, and are therefore subject to equipment authorization requirements in a number of countries and regions. In the United States, Europe and Japan, authorities require advance clearance of all radio frequency devices before they can be sold or marketed in these jurisdictions. Modifications to the approved system design and specifications may require new or further regulatory approvals before we are permitted to market and sell a modified system. If we are unable to maintain our current approvals or obtain any additional required approvals from the authorities responsible for the radio frequency regulations in these and other jurisdictions where we sell products using radio frequencies, an enf orcement action could be brought to prevent the sale or use of these systems in these countries. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. Certain U.S. federal and state laws, including but not limited to the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibit, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of healthcare items or services reimbursable by a federal or state health care program such as Medicare or Medicaid. While the federal anti-kickback statute applies only to products or services for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a federal or state health care program, state laws often also apply to private third-party payors such as commercial insurance plans. Other federal and state laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-pa rty payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. These laws may apply to the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices, such as us, and may limit the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, and other potential purchasers of medical devices. The anti-kickback statute, similar federal and state laws, and false claims laws prescribe substantial civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. A government action against us under one of these legal regimes could result in financial and other penalties, delay or prohibit sales of some or all of our products or services and, even if unsuccessful, could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 8 Failure to comply with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act could subject us to penalties and other adverse consequences. We are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which generally prohibits United States companies and certain non-U.S. companies from engaging in bribery or other prohibited payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Such payments could be common in some foreign countries. If our employees or other agents are found to have engaged in such practices, we might be held responsible and could suffer severe penalties and other consequences that may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Federal and state privacy laws may increase the costs of operation and expose us to civil and criminal sanctions. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as amended, and the regulations that have been issued under it, which we refer to collectively as HIPAA, and similar laws outside the United States, contain substantial restrictions and requirements with respect to the use and disclosure of individuals’ protected health information. The HIPAA privacy rules prohibit “covered entities,” such as healthcare providers and health plans, from using or disclosing an individual’s protected health information, unless the use or disclosure is authorized by the individual or is specifically required or permitted under the privacy rules. Under the HIPAA security rules, covered entities must establish administrative, physical and technical safeguards to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of electronic protected health information maintained or transmitted by them or by others on their behalf. While we do not believe that we are a covered entity under HIPAA, many of our customers are covered entities subject to HIPAA. Such customers may require us to enter into business associate agreements, which obligate us to safeguard certain health information we obtain in the course of our relationship with them, restrict the manner in which we use and disclose such information and impose liability on us for failure to meet our contractual obligations. In addition, under The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health (HITECH) Act of 2009, which was signed into law as part of the U.S. stimulus package in February 2009, certain of HIPAA’s privacy and security requirements are now also directly applicable to “business associates” of covered entities and subject them to direct governmental enforcement for failure to comply with these requirements. We may be deemed as a “business associate” under HIPAA of some of our customers. As a result, we may be subject as “business associates” to civil and criminal penalties for failure to comply with applicable privacy and security rule requirements. Moreover, HITECH created a new requirement obligating “business associates” to report any breach of unsecure d, individually identifiable health information and imposes penalties for failing to do so. In addition to HIPAA, most U.S. states have enacted patient confidentiality laws that protect against the disclosure of confidential medical information, and many U.S. states have adopted or are considering adopting further legislation in this area, including privacy safeguards, security standards, and data security breach notification requirements. These U.S. state laws, if more stringent than HIPAA requirements, are not preempted by the federal requirements, and we are required to comply with them. These and other possible changes to HIPAA or other U.S. federal or state laws or regulations, or comparable law and regulations in countries where we conduct business, could affect our business and the costs of compliance could be significant. Failure by us to comply with any of the standards regarding patient privacy, identity theft prevention and detection, and data security may subject us to penalties, including civil monetary penalties and in some circumstances, criminal penalties. In addition, such failure may damage our reputation and adversely affect our ability to retain customers and attract new customers. Changes in legislation and government regulation of the healthcare industry, as well as third-party payors’ efforts to control the costs of healthcare, could materially adversely affect our business. Recently, new legislation was adopted in the United States to implement significant reforms to the healthcare system in the United States. This legislation may, among other things, reduce Medicare provider reimbursement rates, introduce and/or pilot various new patient care and payment models and base reimbursement policies and rates on clinical outcomes and the comparative effectiveness and costs of different treatment technologies and modalities. Various healthcare reform proposals have also emerged at the state level. We cannot predict how healthcare reform initiatives and subsequent regulations, if any, will be implemented at the U.S. federal or state level, or the effect any new legislation or regulation will have on us. Significant changes to the healthcare system in the United States may lower reimbursements f or our products, reduce medical procedure volumes and increase operational and other costs, and could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We rely on local distributors to market and distribute our products in most of the territories in which we sell them. With the exception of Australia, France, Germany, Israel, Canada and the United States, we rely on distributors for the marketing and distribution of our products. Under most of our agreements with local distributors, a distributor is granted the right to market our products for a specified period in a particular country or region, subject to the attainment of minimum sales targets. The distributor is required to prepare and submit to us for our approval a sales plan and to obtain the requisite regulatory and reimbursement approvals for our products. Our success in generating sales in countries or regions where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not control. In 2010, we derived $36.7 million, or 23%, of our revenues from sales to local distributors, compared to$30.9 million, or 21.8%, in 2009. To date, we have replaced a number of our distributors due to a failure to meet minimum sales targets and for other reasons. If a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor and to train its personnel to market our products and our ability to sell our products in that distributor’s country or region could be adversely affected. 9 Our reliance on single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within budget. We depend on single source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of our products. For example, we have sole suppliers for the imaging sensor and transmitter of our PillCam capsules and the printed circuit boards embedded in the capsule of the Bravo system. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that we require, we may not be able to find alternative sources for these key components. Although we maintain a strategic inventory of key components, the inventory may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand for our products if supply is interrupted, and is subject to risk of loss due to catastrophic events such as fire at a storage facility. As a result, we may be unable to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. If we are required to change the manufacturer of any of these key components, there may be a significant delay in locating a suitable alternative manufacturer. Additionally, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with FDA and other applicable quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the identification of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our products in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of our product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with us, we may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our ability to meet demand for our products in a timely manner or within bu dget. Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our product which could decrease our revenues. Our corporate offices, main manufacturing facilities and research and development facilities are located in Israel. The political and national security environment in Israel may directly affect our operations. Armed conflicts between Israel and its neighboring countries and territories occur periodically and a protracted state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity over time, has in the past led to security and economic difficulties for Israel. These hostilities, any escalation thereof or any future armed conflict or violence in the region, could prevent us from using our corporate offices and primary manufacturing facility in Israel, and therefore harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. For details regarding our disaster recovery plans, see Item 4 — “Business Overview ;— Manufacturing facilities and disaster-preparedness.” If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our business and ability to compete will be harmed. We are dependent on the principal members of our management, scientific staff and sales team. In order to implement our business strategy, we will need to keep our key personnel with expertise in research and development, clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance. Our product development plans depend in part on our ability to retain engineers with expertise in a variety of technical fields. The loss of a number of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. In general, most male and some female citizens and permanent residents of Israel between the ages of 21and 45 are obligated, unless exempt, to take part in annual military reserve duty. A majority of our employees reside in Israel and many of our male employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Additionally, all Israeli residents who perform reserve duty are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or employees due to military service. Any such disruption to our operations could adversely impact our business operations. Our international operations expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In 2010, we derived 65% of our revenues in U.S. dollars, 22% in Euro, 5% in Japanese Yen and 4% in Australian dollars, with the remainder denominated in other currencies. The currency denomination of our revenues depends on the location of the customer or the distributor used to fulfill our customers’ orders. Conversely, in 2010, in addition to our U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated liabilities, 25% of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or Shekels. Our Shekel-denominated liabilities consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future a material portion of our liabilities will continue to be denominated in Shekels. If the value of a currency in which our receivables are denominated devalues against the value of a currency in which our lia bilities are denominated, there will be a negative impact on our operating margins, as well as on our net income. Our revenues and expenses may not always be fully hedged against our currency exposure through financial instruments. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment, or alternatively, we may experience pressure to reduce prices in these markets. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, 26% of our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we are therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations among the U.S. dollar, the Yen, the Shekel, the Australian dollar and the Euro. Recent global economic market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity and financial results. As of December 31, 2010, we had $34.6 million in cash and cash equivalents, which were held in bank accounts and deposits with maturities of three months or less located with a number of high rated banks inside and outside of Israel. In addition, as of December 31, 2010, we had $3.9 million invested in marketable securities and $52.0 million in short term investments, primarily time deposits. Our cash and investments are subject to general credit, counterparty, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which were exacerbated by the turmoil that has recently affected the financial markets and the global economy and caused credit and liquidity issues for a number of reputable financial institutions and a general economic slowdown. These risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative effect on our l iquidity and financial results. 10 Market acceptance of our products in the United States and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient demand for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patient’s medical expenses by third-party payors, including government healthcare programs. The current uncertainty surrounding world financial markets has resulted in the purchasers of medical equipment decreasing their medical equipment purchasing and procurement activities, which trend could continue in the foreseeable future. In addition, further tightening in world credit markets may result in our customers having increased difficulty securing the financing necessary to purchase our products which may result in decreased sales. The financial condition of our customers may deteriorate and our ability to collect payments due to us may be adversely affected. Continued economic uncertainty in our main markets may result in further decline in the number of medical procedures performed by our customers or in cost-conscious patients making fewer trips to their physicians and specialists, either of which could result in reduced demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, third-party payors, including governments, around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce their offered reimbursement rates or countries may adopt healthcare reforms to reduce healthcare spending. For as long as these circumstances continue to impact the global economy, our business and potential growth may be materially and adversely affected. The use of any of our products could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of any of our products were to cause or contribute to injury or death, whether by aggravating existing patient symptoms or otherwise. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of any of our products might necessitate a product recall. Although we maintain product liability insurance, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. In the future, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or at reasona ble costs and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A product liability claim, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, or any product recall could result in substantial costs to us, damage to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction and frustration, and a substantial diversion of management attention. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or our failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. Our ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market in October 2001 and on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange in March 2004. In 2010, the closing price of our shares has ranged from $13.61 to $23.61 per share on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and NIS51.33 to NIS87.80 on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: macroeconomic or general market conditions, future announcements concerning us or our competitors, the existence and outcome of litigation concerning our intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, new clinical or economic data regarding our current or future products and political and national security environment in Israel. In addition, it is our practice to provide guidance to the market as to our expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to us at the time of the guidance. If our operating results do not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our shares would likely decline. In addition, based on our experience to date, we believe that many of our customers delay purchasing our products until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, revenues from sales are concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for us to determine the success of each quarter until its end. This may result in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, we believe that demand for our products may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months w hen physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions due to summer vacations and patients are more likely to postpone less urgent medical procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume and the concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in our ordinary shares, such as short selling. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their shares. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. The largest beneficial owner of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., has significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., beneficially owned approximately 47.6% of our ordinary shares, as of December 31, 2010. As a result, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. could exercise a significant influence over our operations and business strategy and has sufficient voting power to influence the outcome of many matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: • the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business, appoint and remove our officers and declare dividends; 11 • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; • raising future capital; and • amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our other shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of December 31, 2010, we had 29,829,277 ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 50% of these shares are “control securities” available for resale on the Nasdaq Global Select Market subject, however, to volume limitations under Rule 144. In addition, all of our ordinary shares are available for resale on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange, subject to compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933. Most of these restricted securities are held by the largest beneficial owner of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have periodically experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares, and if one or a small number of parties buys or se lls a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price and the price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market and the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (U.S. dollars on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, and Shekels on the Tel-Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceeds specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders that may include having gains realized on the sale of our shares treated as, or taxed as, ordinary income (rather than as capital gains) and potential payment of interest on the taxes payable on such gains. Furthermore, the reduced rate otherwise applicable to certain qualified dividends would not apply to dividends paid by us to our shareholders and, in the case of certain “excess distributions” made by us, interest may also be payable on the taxes payable on such dividends. We believe we were not a PFIC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the market value of our shares and valuing our intangible assets using the methods prescribed for publicly traded corporations, and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this decision. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will not become a PFIC, in particular, since the value of our shares is likely to fluctuate. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see Item 10 — “Additional Information — Taxation — Certain Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Considerations — Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” U.S. shareholders should consult their U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. Israeli law regulating government grants we have received from the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel for research and development expenditures limit our ability to transfer manufacturing of products or know-how developed in whole or in part with funds from the Office of Chief Scientist to third parties outside of Israel. If we fail to observe these limitations, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist or be subject to criminal charges. From 1998 through 2007 we received royalty-bearing grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, or OCS, for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. While to date we have paid all of our royalty obligations resulting from these grants, the restrictions associated with receiving such grants under the applicable law continue to apply. These restrictions may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing, engage in change of control transactions or otherwise transfer our know-how outside Israel and may require us to obtain the approval of the OCS for certain actions and transactions and pay additional royalties to the OCS. If we fail to comply with the R&D Law, we may be subject to criminal ch arges. See Item 10 — “Additional Information — Taxation – Taxation of Companies in Israel – Grants Under the Law of Encouragement of Industrial Research and Development, 1984.” 12 We receive significant tax benefits in Israel that may be reduced or eliminated in the future. Our investment program in leasehold improvements and equipment at our manufacturing facility in Yoqneam, Israel has been granted “approved enterprise” status and we are therefore eligible for significant tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs such as ours. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase. In addition, our approved enterprise status imposes certain requirements on us, such as the location of our manufacturing facility, location of certain subcontractors and the extent to which we may outsource portions of our production process. If we do not meet these requirements, the law permits the authorities to cancel the tax benefits retroactively. In addition, if we distribute tax-exempt profits to shareholders, we will be subject to tax at the then applicable tax rate to companies in Israel. See Item 10 “Additional Information — Taxation.” Government authorities may question our tax positions or transfer pricing policies or change their laws in a manner that could increase our effective tax rate or otherwise harm our business. We conduct operations world-wide through subsidiaries in various tax jurisdictions pursuant to transfer pricing arrangements between our subsidiaries. Transfer prices are prices that one company in a group of related companies charges to another member of the group for goods, services or the use of property. If two or more affiliated companies are located in different countries, the tax laws or regulations of each country generally will require that transfer prices be the same as those between unrelated companies dealing at arms' length and that contemporaneous documentation is maintained to support the transfer prices. While we believe we have proper transfer pricing arrangements, our transfer pricing procedures are not binding on applicable tax authorities. Tax laws are continually changing and are subject to the i nterpretation of government agencies, which from time to time review and audit our business in the jurisdictions in which we conduct business throughout the world. If regulators challenge our tax positions, corporate structure, transfer pricing arrangements or intercompany transfers, we may be subject to fines and payment of back taxes, our effective tax rate may increase and our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow could be materially adversely affected. We may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees involved in research and development activities. We currently have non-competition agreements with substantially all of our employees who are involved in research and development, nearly all of whom are located in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time following termination of employment. In many jurisdictions, courts are increasingly refusing to enforce restrictions on competition by former employees or have interpreted them narrowly. For example, in Israel, where a majority of our research and development employees reside, courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material in terests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. 13 