ITEM 1A. Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to allow us to pay quarterly distributions at current levels following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our affiliates. The amount of cash we can distribute on our limited partner units principally depends upon the cash we generate from our operations. Because the cash we generate from operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, we may not be able to pay quarterly distributions at the current level for each quarter. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our financial results depend on the demand for the petroleum products that we transport, store and distribute. Any sustained decrease in demand for petroleum products in the markets served by our pipeline and terminals could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that we transport in our pipeline, store at our marine terminals and distribute through our inland terminals, and thereby reduce our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: • an increase in the market price of petroleum products, which may reduce demand for gasoline and other petroleum products. Market prices for petroleum products are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in global and regional supply over which we have no control; • a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers and businesses on transportation fuels such as gasoline, aviation fuel and diesel; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase the cost of the products we handle; • an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles, technological advances by manufacturers or federal or state regulations; and • the government–mandated increase in the use of alternative fuel sources, such as biofuels, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products and ammonia, including weather-related or other natural causes, ruptures, leaks and fires. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage and may result in curtailment or 17 suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In addition, as a result of market conditions, premiums for our insurance policies could increase significantly. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions. Fluctuations in prices of refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids could materially affect our earnings. A third-party supply agreement we assumed in connection with the acquisition of certain pipeline and terminal assets during October 2004 requires that we purchase and maintain certain inventories of petroleum products. In addition, we maintain product inventory related to our petroleum products blending and fractionation operations, as well as in connection with the operation of our pipeline and terminals. Significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in losses or lower profits from these operations, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate and our ability to pay cash distributions. We had agreements with a customer pursuant to which we charged storage rental and throughput fees based on discounted rates plus a variable fee, which was based on a percentage of the net profits from certain trading activities conducted by our customer. We recognize revenues for the variable fees from these agreements at the end of the contract terms. During 2006, we recognized revenues of $9.4 million combined from two agreements, one of which expired January 31, 2006 and the other on December 31, 2006. We have negotiated a similar agreement pursuant to which we will receive a share of any net trading profits above a specified amount during 2007, but we will not share in any net trading losses. The trading activities upon which our variable-rate fees are based involve substantial risks. As a result, our share of the variable-rate revenues from this agreement in 2007 could be zero. Rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates we charge on our petroleum products pipeline system may reduce the amount of cash we generate. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements on our petroleum products pipeline system. Shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the FERC may investigate new or changed tariff rates. Further, other than for rates set under market-based rate authority, the FERC may order refunds of amounts collected under rates that were in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline system’s cost of service. In addition, shippers may challenge the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC may also investigate such rates absent shipper complaint. The FERC’s ratemaking methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. The FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. We use this methodology to establish our rates in approximately 40% of our interstate markets. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG to the new ceiling level. If the PPI-FG falls, we could be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC’s price indexing methodology if they exceed the new maximum allowable rate. The FERC’s indexing methodology is subject to a five-year review, and in March 2006, the FERC approved the methodology of PPI-FG plus 1.3% for the annual adjustment related to the next five-year period, commencing July 1, 2006. Changes in PPI-FG plus 1.3% might not fully reflect actual increases in the costs associated with the pipelines subject to indexing, which would impair our ability to recover costs associated with our indexed rates. The potential for a challenge to our indexed rates creates the risk that the FERC might find some of our indexed rates to be in excess of a just and reasonable level—that is, a level justified by our cost of service. In such an event, the FERC would order us to reduce any such rates and could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. In July 2004, the D.C. Circuit issued its opinion in BP West Coast Products, LLC v. FERC, which upheld, among other things, the FERC’s determination that certain rates of an interstate petroleum products pipeline, 18 SFPP, were grandfathered rates under the Energy Policy Act of 1992 and that SFPP’s shippers had not demonstrated substantially changed circumstances that would justify modification of those rates. The court also vacated the portion of the FERC’s decision applying the Lakehead policy. In the Lakehead decision, the FERC allowed an oil pipeline publicly traded partnership to include in its cost-of-service an income tax allowance to the extent that its unitholders were corporations subject to income tax. In May and June 2005, the FERC issued a statement of general policy, as well as an order on remand of BP West Coast, respectively, in which the FERC stated it will permit pipelines to include in cost of service a tax allowance to reflect actual or potential tax liability on their public utility income attributable to all partnership or limited liability company interests, if the ultimate owner of the interest has an actual or potential income tax liability on such income. Whether a pipeline’s owners have such actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the new policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails rate risk due to the case-by-case review requirement. In December 2005, the FERC issued its first case-specific oil pipeline review of the income tax allowance issues in the SFPP proceeding, reaffirming its new income tax allowance policy and directing SFPP to provide certain evidence necessary for the pipeline to determine its income allowance. Further, in the December 2005 order, the FERC concluded that for tax allowance purposes, the FERC would apply a rebuttable presumption that corporate partners of pass-through entities pay the maximum marginal tax rate of 35% and that non-corporate partners of pass-through entities pay a marginal rate of 28%. The FERC indicated that it would address the income tax allowance issues further in the context of SFPP’s compliance filing submitted in March 2006. In December 2006, the FERC ruled on some of the issues raised as to the March 2006 SFPP compliance filing, upholding most of its determinations in the December 2005 order. The FERC did revise its rebuttable presumption as to corporate partners’ marginal tax rate from 35% to 34%. The FERC’s BP West Coast remand decision, the new tax allowance policy and the December 2005 order have been appealed to the D.C. Circuit. Oral argument was held in December 2006. As a result, the ultimate outcome of these proceedings is not certain and could result in changes to the FERC’s treatment of income tax allowances in cost of service. We establish rates in approximately 60% of our interstate markets using the FERC’s market-based ratemaking regulations. These regulations allow us to establish rates based on conditions in individual markets without regard to the index or our cost of service. If successfully challenged, the FERC could take away our ability to establish market-based rates. We would then be required to establish rates that would be justified on some other basis such as our cost of service. Any reduction in the indexed rates, removal of our ability to establish market-based rates, change in the treatment of income tax allowances or payment of reparations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and reduce the amount of cash we generate. Competition could lead to lower levels of profits and reduce the amount of cash we generate. We face competition from other pipelines and terminals in the same markets as our assets, as well as from other means of transporting, storing and distributing petroleum products, including from other pipeline systems, terminal operators and integrated refining and marketing companies that own their own terminal facilities. Our customers demand delivery of products on tight time schedules and in a number of geographic markets. If our quality of service declines or we cannot meet the demands of our customers, they may utilize the services of our competitors. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the environmental and operational safety aspects of our operations. Each of our operating segments is subject to the risk of incurring substantial costs and liabilities under environmental and safety laws and regulations. These costs and liabilities arise under increasingly stringent environmental and safety laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies, and as a result of claims for damages to property or persons arising from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. If we 19 were unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. The terminal and pipeline facilities that comprise our petroleum products pipeline system have been used for many years to transport, distribute or store petroleum products. Over time our operations, or operations by our predecessors or third parties not under our control, may have resulted in the disposal or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes at or from these terminal properties and along such pipeline rights-of-way. In addition, some of our terminals and pipelines are located on or near current or former refining and terminal sites, and there is a risk that contamination is present on those sites. We may be subject to strict, joint and several liability under a number of these environmental laws and regulations for such disposal and releases of hydrocarbons or solid wastes or the existence of contamination, even in circumstances where such activities or conditions were caused by third parties not under our control or were otherwise lawful at the time they occurred. Further, the transportation of hazardous materials in our pipelines may result in environmental damage, including accidental releases that may cause death or injuries to humans, third-party damage, natural resource damages, and/or result in Federal and/State civil and/or criminal penalties that could be material to our results of operations and cash flows. We depend on refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by others to supply our pipeline and terminals. We depend on connections with refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by third parties as a significant source of supply for our facilities. Outages at these refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these pipelines because of weather-related or other natural causes, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in our being unable to deliver products to our customers from our terminals or receive products for storage or reduce shipments on our pipelines and could adversely affect our cash flow and ability to pay cash distributions. The closure of mid-continent refineries that supply our petroleum products pipeline system could result in disruptions or reductions in the volumes we transport and the amount of cash we generate. The EPA has adopted requirements that require refineries to install equipment to lower the sulfur content of gasoline and some diesel fuel they produce. The requirements relating to gasoline took effect in 2004, and the requirements relating to diesel fuel are being implemented through 2010. If refinery owners that use our petroleum pipeline system determine that compliance with these new requirements is too costly, they may close some of these refineries, which could reduce the volumes transported on our petroleum products pipelines and the amount of cash we generate. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenue, but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to pay cash distributions. 20 Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and liabilities and increasing our risk of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Our expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flow and may exceed our cost estimates. We have begun or anticipate beginning numerous expansion projects which will require us to make significant capital investments. We will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows we expect these projects to generate will not materialize until some time after the projects are completed. The amount of time and investment necessary to complete these projects could exceed the estimates we used when determining whether to undertake them. For example, we must compete with other companies for the materials and construction services required to complete these projects, and competition for these materials or services could result in significant delays and/or cost overruns. Any such cost overruns or unanticipated delays in the completion or commercial development of these projects could reduce our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store and transport. Petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For instance, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our petroleum products pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. Terrorist attacks aimed at our facilities could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, and the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure in particular, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 21 High natural gas prices can increase ammonia production costs and reduce the amount of ammonia transported through our ammonia pipeline system. The profitability of our ammonia customers partially depends on the price of natural gas, which is the principal raw material used in the production of ammonia. An extended period of high natural gas prices may cause our customers to produce and ship lower volumes of ammonia, which could adversely affect our cash flows. Rising short-term interest rates could increase our financing costs and reduce the amount of cash we generate. As of December 31, 2006, we had fixed-rate debt of $772.6 million outstanding, excluding unaccreted discounts and fair value adjustments for interest rate hedges. We have effectively converted $350.0 million of this debt to floating-rate debt using interest rate swap agreements. In addition, we had $20.5 million of floating rate borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility as of December 31, 2006. As a result of these swap agreements and revolver borrowings, we have exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. Rising short-term rates could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. The terms of our indemnification settlement agreement require Williams to make a payment to us in July 2007, exposing us to credit risk. In May 2004, we, MGG and our general partner entered into an agreement with Williams under which Williams agreed to pay us $117.5 million to release Williams from its environmental and certain other indemnification obligations to us, consisting primarily of costs related to environmental remediation matters related to assets that were contributed to us by Williams or which we acquired from Williams. Pursuant to this agreement, we have received $82.5 million as of December 31, 2006, and we expect to receive the remaining balance of $35.0 million in July of 2007. Williams’ credit ratings are below investment grade and its failure to perform on its payment obligations under the settlement agreement could adversely affect our ability to meet these obligations and pay cash distributions. Restrictions contained in our debt instruments and the debt instruments of Magellan Pipeline may limit our financial flexibility. We and our subsidiary, Magellan Pipeline, are subject to restrictions with respect to our debt that may limit our flexibility in structuring or refinancing existing or future debt and prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. These restrictions include, among other provisions, the maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to grant liens, to sell assets or to repay existing debt without penalties. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. In addition, a change in control of our general partner could, under certain circumstances, result in our debt or the debt of Magellan Pipeline becoming due and payable. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on our limited partner units, we will reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our general partner, for expenses they incur on our behalf. The reimbursement of expenses could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of its expenses which must be reimbursed, subject to certain annual limits. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. 22 Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and it affiliates, including MGG, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. The directors and officers of our general partner have fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our limited partners. At the same time, our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to MGG, the owner of our general partner, and its affiliates. The board of directors of our general partner will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts may include, among others, the following: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including MGG, and their respective affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our credit ratings; • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner, through its ownership of our incentive distribution rights, is entitled to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of any incremental cash we distribute per limited partner unit, which could reduce our ability to complete accretive transactions or otherwise increase the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • our general partner determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses to MGG and us; and • our general partner interprets and enforces contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and MGG, on the other hand. 23 Certain executive officers of our general partner own interests in MGG Midstream Holdings, L.P. amounting to approximately 5% of its total ownership. MGG Midstream Holdings, L.P. currently owns the general partner interest and 65% of the limited partner interests in MGG. As a result, these officers could experience additional conflicts between our interests and the interests of MGG. Affiliates of our general partner may compete with us. Under our partnership agreement, it is not a breach of our general partner’s fiduciary duties for affiliates of our general partner to engage in activities that compete with us. For example, both MGG, which owns our general partner, and MGG’s general partner are partially owned by an affiliate of Carlyle/Riverstone Global Energy and Power Fund II, L.P. (“CRF”), which also owns, through affiliates, an interest in the general partner of Buckeye Partners, L.P. (“Buckeye”), and the general partner of SemGroup, L.P. (“SemGroup”), both of which are engaged in the transportation, storage and distribution of refined petroleum products and may acquire other entities that compete with us. Although we do not have extensive operations in the geographic areas primarily served by Buckeye, we will compete directly with Buckeye, SemGroup and perhaps other entities in which CRF has an interest for acquisition opportunities throughout the United States and potentially will compete with Buckeye, SemGroup and these other entities for new business or extensions of the existing services provided by our operating partnerships, creating actual and potential conflicts of interest between us and affiliates of our general partner. In addition, an affiliate of SemGroup is a significant customer of ours. All of our executive officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our general partner shares officers and administrative personnel with MGG’s general partner to operate both our business and MGG’s business. Our general partner’s officers, several of whom are also officers of MGG’s general partner, will allocate the time they and the other employees of MGG’s general partner spend on our behalf and on behalf of MGG. These officers face conflicts regarding the allocation of their and other employees’ time, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These allocations may not necessarily be the result of arms-length negotiations between our general partner and MGG’s general partner. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our limited partner units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our limited partner units. Current law may change causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we will be subject to a new entity level tax on the portion of our income that is generated in Texas beginning in 2007. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas, or any other state, will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. 24 Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. Our partnership will be considered to have been terminated for federal income tax purposes if, within a 12-month period, there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income, resulting in more income being allocated to our unitholders during that tax year. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS has made no determination as to our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the conclusions of our counsel or from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a limited partner unit, which decreased their tax basis in that limited partner unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and non-U.S. persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced 25 by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our limited partner units. We will treat each purchaser of limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual limited partner units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the limited partner units. Primarily because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. Our unitholders will likely be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders will likely be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in 22 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. Our counsel has not rendered an opinion on the state or local tax consequences of an investment in our limited partner units. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 