Item 1A. Risk Factors. We are subject to the following factors that could have a material adverse effect on our future performance, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. In addition, such factors could affect our ability to service our indebtedness and other obligations, our ability to raise capital and our future growth opportunities. Also, see "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Information" on page vi, "Business" in Item 1 and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K. Risks Related to the Operation of our Business Our financial results are unpredictable because most of our generating facilities operate without long-term power sales agreements, and our revenues and results of operations depend on market and competitive forces that are beyond our control. We provide energy, capacity, ancillary and other energy services from our generating facilities in a variety of markets and to bi-lateral counterparties, including participating in wholesale energy markets, entering into tolling agreements, sales of resource adequacy and participation in capacity auctions. Our revenues from selling capacity are a significant part of our overall revenues. We are not guaranteed recovery of our costs or any return on our capital investments through mandated rates. The market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond our control, including the balance of supply and demand, transmission congestion, our competitors' marginal and long-term costs of production, the price of fuel, and the effect of market regulation. The price at which we can sell our output may fluctuate on a day-to-day basis, and our ability to transact may be affected by the overall liquidity in the markets in which we operate. These markets remain subject to regulations that limit our ability to raise prices during periods of shortage to the degree that would occur in a fully deregulated market. In addition, unlike most other commodities, electric energy can be stored only on a very limited basis and generally must be produced at the time of use. As a result, the wholesale power markets are subject to substantial price fluctuations over relatively short periods of time and can be unpredictable. For further discussion, see "Business—Competitive Environment." Our revenues, results of operations and cash flows are influenced by factors that are beyond our control, including those set forth above, as well as: •the failure of market regulators to develop and maintain efficient mechanisms to compensate merchant generators for the value of providing capacity needed to meet demand; •actions by regulators, ISOs, RTOs and other bodies that may artificially modify supply and demand levels and prevent capacity and energy prices from rising to the level necessary for recovery of our costs, our investment and an adequate return on our investment; •legal and political challenges to or changes in the rules used to calculate capacity payments in the markets in which we operate or the establishment of bifurcated markets, incentives, other market design changes or bidding requirements that give preferential treatment to new generating facilities over existing generating facilities or otherwise reduce capacity payments to existing generating facilities; •the ability of wholesale purchasers of power to make timely payment for energy or capacity, which may be adversely affected by factors such as retail rate caps, refusals by regulators to allow utilities to recover fully their wholesale power costs and investments through rates, catastrophic losses and losses from investments by utilities in unregulated businesses; •increases in prevailing market prices for fuel oil, coal, natural gas and emissions allowances that may not be reflected in prices we receive for sales of energy; 30 Table of Contents •increases in electricity supply as a result of actions of our current competitors or new market entrants, including the development of new generating facilities or alternative energy sources that may be able to produce electricity less expensively than our generating facilities and improvements in transmission that allow additional supply to reach our markets; •increases in credit standards, margin requirements, market volatility or other market conditions that could increase our obligations to post collateral beyond amounts that are expected, including additional collateral costs associated with OTC hedging activities as a result of future OTC regulations adopted pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act; •decreases in energy consumption resulting from demand-side management programs such as automated demand response, which may alter the amount and timing of consumer energy use; •the competitive advantages of certain competitors, including continued operation of older power facilities in strategic locations after recovery of historic capital costs from ratepayers; •existing or future regulation of our markets by the FERC, ISOs and RTOs, including any price limitations and other mechanisms to address some of the price volatility or illiquidity in these markets or the physical stability of the system; •our obligation under any default sharing mechanisms in RTO and ISO markets, such mechanisms exist to spread the risk of defaults by transmission owning companies or other RTO members across all market participants; •regulatory policies of state agencies that affect the willingness of our customers to enter into long-term contracts generally, and contracts for capacity in particular; •access to contractors and equipment; •changes in the rate of growth in electricity usage as a result of such factors as national and regional economic conditions and implementation of conservation programs; •seasonal variations in energy and natural gas prices, and capacity payments; and •seasonal fluctuations in weather, in particular abnormal weather conditions. We expect that higher earnings from price increases resulting from industry retirements will more than offset reduced earnings from our unit deactivations. However, as discussed above, the market for wholesale electric energy and energy services reflects various market conditions beyond our control, including the balance of supply and demand, our competitors' marginal and long-term costs of production, and the effect of market regulation. We cannot ensure that higher earnings or price increases will result from industry retirements of coal-fired generating facilities or that higher earnings from our remaining facilities will offset or more than offset reduced earnings from our facility deactivations. Changes in the wholesale energy markets or in our generating facility operations as a result of increased environmental requirements could result in impairments or other charges. If our ongoing evaluation of our business results in decisions to deactivate or dispose of additional facilities, we could have impairments or other charges, including charges relating to the assets of RRI Energy that were recorded at fair values in conjunction with the Merger. These evaluations involve significant judgments about the future. Actual future market prices, project costs and other factors could be materially different from our current estimates. See "Business Segments" above for a discussion of coal-fired generating facilities that we expect to deactivate between 2012 and 2015. 31 Table of Contents Our Marsh Landing development project is subject to construction risks and, if we are unsuccessful in addressing those risks, we may not recover our investment in the project or our return on the project may be lower than expected. Our return on the Marsh Landing development project may be lower than expected if GenOn Marsh Landing does not complete construction of the generating facility by the required completion date under its long-term PPA with PG&E. Should the facility fail to be operational or not perform as required under the terms of the PPA, PG&E may have the right to terminate the PPA. A termination of the PPA would trigger an event of default under the GenOn Marsh Landing credit facility. As there is currently no wholesale capacity market in California, if PG&E were to terminate the PPA, the ability to refinance the project would likely be limited. GenOn Marsh Landing's contingent obligations for delay damages or termination payments under the PPA were $54 million at December 31, 2011, and escalate over the construction period. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of letters of credit issued and surety bonds posted to secure GenOn Marsh Landing's obligations to PG&E and to Kiewit and in connection with the Marsh Landing development project. We are exposed to the risk of fuel cost volatility because we must pre-purchase coal and oil. Most of our fuel contracts are at fixed prices with terms of two years or less. Although we purchase coal and oil based on our expected requirements, we still face the risks of fuel price volatility if we require more fuel than we expected. Our cost of fuel may not reflect changes in energy and fuel prices in part because we must pre-purchase inventories of coal and oil for reliability and dispatch requirements, and thus the price of fuel may have been determined at an earlier date than the price of energy generated from the fuel. Similarly, the price we can obtain from the sale of energy may not rise at the same rate, or may not rise at all, to match a rise in fuel costs. We are exposed to the risk of our fuel providers and fuel transportation providers failing to perform. For our coal-fired generating facilities, we purchase most of our coal from a limited number of suppliers. Because of a variety of operational issues, our coal suppliers may not provide the contractual quantities on the dates specified within our agreements, or the deliveries may be carried over to future periods. Also, interruptions to planned or contracted deliveries to our generating facilities can result from a lack of, or constraints in, coal transportation because of rail, river or road system disruptions, adverse weather conditions and other factors. If our coal suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, we may have to procure higher priced coal in the market to meet our needs, or higher priced power in the market to meet our obligations. In addition, generally our coal suppliers do not have investment grade credit ratings nor do they post collateral with us and, accordingly, we may have limited ability to collect damages in the event of default by such suppliers. For a discussion of our coal supplier concentration risk, see note 1 to our consolidated financial statements. For our oil-fired generating facilities, we typically purchase fuel from a limited number of suppliers. If our oil suppliers do not perform in accordance with the agreements, we may have to procure higher priced oil in the market to meet our needs, or higher priced power in the market to meet our obligations. For our gas-fired generating facilities, any curtailments or interruptions on transporting pipelines could result in curtailment of our operations or increased fuel supply costs. 32 Table of Contents Operation of our generating facilities involves risks that could result in disruption, curtailment or inefficiencies in our operations. The operation of our generating facilities involves various operating risks, including, but not limited to: •the output and efficiency levels at which those generating facilities perform; •interruptions in fuel supply and quality of available fuel; •disruptions in the delivery of electricity; •adverse zoning; •breakdowns or equipment failures (whether a result of age or otherwise); •violations of our permit requirements or changes in the terms of, or revocation of, permits; •releases of pollutants and hazardous substances to air, soil, surface water or groundwater; •ability to transport and dispose of coal ash at reasonable prices; •curtailments or other interruptions in natural gas supply; •shortages of equipment or spare parts; •labor disputes, including strikes, work stoppages and slowdowns; •the aging workforce at many of our facilities; •operator errors; •curtailment of operations because of transmission constraints; •failures in the electricity transmission system which may cause large energy blackouts; •implementation of unproven technologies in connection with environmental improvements; and •catastrophic events such as fires, explosions, floods, earthquakes, hurricanes or other similar occurrences. These factors could result in a material decrease, or the elimination of, the revenues generated by our facilities or a material increase in our costs of operations. We operate in a limited number of markets and a significant portion of our revenues are derived from the PJM market. The effect of adverse developments in our markets, especially the PJM market, may be greater on us than on our more geographically diversified competitors. Our generating capacity is 57% in PJM, 23% in CAISO, 11% in NYISO and ISO-NE, 8% in the Southeast and 1% in MISO. Approximately 42% and 37% of our realized gross margin during 2011 was attributable to our Eastern PJM and Western PJM/MISO operating segments, respectively. Adverse developments in these regions, especially in the PJM market, may adversely affect us. Further, the effect of such adverse regional developments may be greater on us than on our more geographically diversified competitors. We are exposed to possible losses that may occur from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of a contractual arrangement with us, particularly in connection with our non-collateralized power hedges between GenOn Mid-Atlantic and financial institutions. Non-collateralized power hedges with financial institutions represent 37% of our net notional power position at December 31, 2011. Such hedges are senior unsecured obligations of GenOn 33 Table of Contents Mid-Atlantic and the counterparties, and do not require either party to post cash collateral for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. Deterioration in the financial condition of such counterparties could result in their failure to pay amounts owed to us or to perform obligations or services owed to us beyond collateral posted. For a discussion of the GenOn Mid-Atlantic credit concentration risk, see "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7A in this Form 10-K. Our income tax NOL carry forwards could be substantially limited if we experience an ownership change as defined in the IRC. We have approximately $2.6 billion of federal NOL carry forwards, which we are able to use to offset taxable income in future years. If, however, an "ownership change," as defined in IRC § 382, occurs, the amount of NOLs that could be used in any one year following such ownership change would be substantially limited. In general, an "ownership change" would occur when there is a greater than 50-percentage point increase in ownership of a company's stock by stockholders each of which owns (or is deemed to own under IRC § 382) 5% or more of such company's stock. Given IRC § 382's broad definition, an ownership change could be the unintended consequence of otherwise normal market trading in our stock that is outside our control. Moreover, while we have a Protective Charter Amendment and a stockholder rights plan in place in an effort to preserve our NOLs, neither measure offers a complete solution and an ownership change could occur. We cannot assure that the Protective Charter Amendment's restriction on acquisitions of our common stock will be enforceable against all our stockholders, and the restriction may be subject to challenge. The stockholder rights plan can only deter, not prevent, an ownership change that would result in the loss of our NOLs. Based on information contained in a shareholder's recent filing made pursuant to SEC Regulation 13G and subsequent inquiries made on the basis of such information, it is possible RRI Energy may have experienced an ownership change as defined above as a result of the Merger. As of this date we have not completed verification of the change and we continue to seek "actual knowledge" with respect to certain facts pertaining to the possible ownership change. Should we determine that RRI Energy had an ownership change at the Merger date, its NOLs would be substantially limited to reflect the requirements of IRC § 382. See notes 7 and 12 to our consolidated financial statements. Regulated utilities have competitive advantages in wholesale power markets. We compete with non-utility generators, regulated utilities, and other energy service companies in the sale of our products and services, as well as in the procurement of fuel, fuel transportation and transmission services. We compete primarily on the basis of price and service. Regulated utilities in the wholesale markets generally enjoy a lower cost of capital than we do and often are able to recover fixed costs through regulated retail rates, including, in many cases, the costs of generation, allowing them to build, buy and upgrade generating facilities without relying exclusively on market-clearing prices to recover their investments. Changes in technology may significantly affect our generating business by making our generating facilities less competitive. We generate electricity using fossil fuels at large central facilities. This method results in economies of scale and lower costs than newer technologies such as fuel cells, microturbines, windmills and photovoltaic solar cells. It is possible that advances in those technologies, or governmental incentives for renewable energies, will reduce their costs to levels that are equal to or below that of most central station electricity production. 34 Table of Contents The expected decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations of certain of our generating facilities may negatively affect our cash flows. Some of our generating facilities and related properties are subject to decommissioning and/or site remediation obligations that may require material expenditures. Furthermore, laws and regulations may change to impose material additional decommissioning and remediation obligations on us in the future. Terrorist attacks and/or cyber-attacks may result in our inability to operate and fulfill our obligations, and could result in material repair costs. As a power generator, we face heightened risk of terrorism, including cyber terrorism, either by a direct act against one or more of our generating facilities or an act against the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport our power. Although our entire industry is exposed to these risks, our generating facilities and the transmission and distribution infrastructure located in the PJM market are particularly at risk because of the proximity to major population centers, including governmental and commerce centers. We rely on information technology networks and systems to operate our generating facilities, engage in asset management activities, and process, transmit and store electronic information. Security breaches of this information technology infrastructure, including cyber-attacks and cyber terrorism, could lead to system disruptions, generating facility shutdowns or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information related to our employees, vendors and counterparties. Confidential information includes banking, vendor, counterparty and personal identity information. Systemic damage to one or more of our generating facilities and/or to the transmission and distribution infrastructure could result in our inability to operate in one or all of the markets we serve for an extended period of time. If our generating facilities are shut down, we would be unable to respond to the ISOs and RTOs or fulfill our obligations under various energy and/or capacity arrangements, resulting in lost revenues and potential fines, penalties and other liabilities. Pervasive cyber-attacks across our industry could affect the ability of ISOs and RTOs to function in some regions. The cost to restore our generating facilities after such an occurrence could be material. Our operations are subject to hazards customary to the power generating industry. We may not have adequate insurance to cover all of these hazards. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of high-speed rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems. In addition to natural risks (such as earthquake, flood, storm surge, lightning, hurricane, tornado and wind), hazards (such as fire, explosion, collapse and machinery failure) are inherent risks in our operations. We are also susceptible to terrorist attacks, including cyber-attacks, against our generating facilities or the transmission and distribution infrastructure that is used to transport our power. These hazards can cause significant injury to personnel or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations. The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury and fines and/or penalties. We do not maintain specialized insurance for possible liability resulting from a cyber-attack on our systems that may shut down all or part of the transmission and distribution system. However, we maintain an amount of insurance protection that we consider adequate and customary for merchant power producers. We cannot assure that our insurance will be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. 35 Table of Contents Lawsuits, regulatory proceedings and tax proceedings could adversely affect our future financial results. From time to time, we are named as a party to, or our property is the subject of, lawsuits, regulatory proceedings or tax proceedings. We are currently involved in various proceedings which involve highly subjective matters with complex factual and legal questions. Their outcome is uncertain. Any claim that is successfully asserted against us could require significant expenditures by us. Even if we prevail, any proceedings could be costly and time-consuming, could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations and could result in adverse changes in our insurance costs. See notes 7 and 16 to our consolidated financial statements. We depend on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. The successful execution of our business strategy is dependent on the skills, experience and efforts of our people. The loss of one or more members of our senior management or employees with critical skills could adversely affect our future business, financial condition, and operating results if we were unable to secure the talent that we feel is needed. If we acquire or develop additional facilities, dispose of existing facilities or combine with other businesses, we may incur additional costs and risks. We may seek to purchase or develop additional facilities, dispose of existing facilities, or combine with other businesses. There is no assurance that these efforts will be successful. In addition, these activities involve risks and challenges, including identifying suitable opportunities, obtaining required regulatory and other approvals, integrating acquired or combined operations with our own, and increasing expenses and working capital requirements. Furthermore, in any sale, we may be required to indemnify a purchaser against liabilities. To finance future acquisitions, we may be required to issue additional equity securities or incur additional debt. Obtaining such additional financing is dependent on numerous factors, including general economic and capital market conditions, credit availability from financial institutions, the covenants in our debt agreements, and our financial performance, cash flow and credit ratings. We cannot make any assurances that we would be able to obtain such additional financing on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Risks Related to Economic and Financial Market Conditions We are exposed to systemic risk of the financial markets and institutions and the risk of non-performance of the individual lenders under our undrawn credit facilities. Maintaining sufficient liquidity in our business for maintenance and operating expenditures, capital expenditures and collateral is crucial in order to mitigate the risk of future financial distress to us. Accordingly, we maintain a revolving credit facility to manage our expected liquidity needs and contingencies. In the event that financial institutions are unwilling or unable to renew our existing revolving credit facility or enter into new revolving credit facilities, our ability to hedge economically our assets or engage in proprietary trading could also be impaired. We have significant undrawn availability under our revolving credit facility and Marsh Landing credit facility. A significant portion of the Marsh Landing project costs are expected to be funded through drawings under the GenOn Marsh Landing credit facility. The failure of the lenders to perform under our revolving credit facility or the Marsh Landing credit facility could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and the ability to complete construction of the Marsh Landing facility, respectively. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity" in Item 7 of this Form 10-K and note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. 36 Table of Contents A negative market perception of our value could impair our ability to raise capital or refinance debt. A sustained downturn in general economic conditions, including low power and commodity prices, could result in a perceived weakness in our overall financial health. This may result in our stock price remaining at a low level for an extended time, which would impair our ability to access equity markets. A negative market perception of our value could result in our inability to obtain and maintain an appropriate credit rating. In this event, we may be unable to access debt markets or refinance future debt maturities, or we may be required to post additional collateral to operate our business. As financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets for hedge transactions and fewer creditworthy counterparties. We hedge economically a substantial portion of our PJM coal-fired baseload generation and certain of our other generation. A significant portion of our hedges are financial swap transactions between GenOn Mid-Atlantic and financial counterparties that are senior unsecured obligations of such parties and do not require either party to post cash collateral, either for initial margin or for securing exposure as a result of changes in power or natural gas prices. Global financial institutions have been active participants in these energy and commodity markets. As global financial institutions consolidate and operate under more restrictive capital constraints and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, there could be less liquidity in the energy and commodity markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our ability to hedge economically and transact with creditworthy counterparties. The Dodd-Frank Act could materially affect our business, including greater regulation of energy contracts and OTC derivative financial instruments, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to hedge economically our generation and engage in proprietary trading. The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010 in response to the global financial crisis, increases the regulation of transactions involving OTC derivative financial instruments. The effect of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business depends in large measure on pending rulemaking proceedings of the CFTC, the SEC and the federal banking regulators. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, entities defined as "swap dealers" and "major swap participants" will face costly requirements for clearing and posting margin, as well as additional requirements for reporting and business conduct. Although we do not expect our commercial activity to result in our designation as an SD/MSP, as proposed, the "swap dealer" definition in particular is ambiguous, subjective and could be broad enough to encompass some energy companies. It is possible that the final rule will not offer much clarity and the designation as an SD/MSP could be decided by facts and circumstance tests. The impact of the final regulations, or the uncertainty as to the scope thereof, could have a material adverse effect on our commercial activities and our ability to hedge economically, including decreasing liquidity in the forward commodity markets. Many of the factors that cause changes in commodity prices are outside our control and may materially increase our cost of producing power or lower the price at which we are able to sell our power. Our generating business is subject to changes in power prices and fuel and emissions costs, and these commodity prices are influenced by many factors outside our control, including weather, seasonal variation in supply and demand, market liquidity, transmission and transportation inefficiencies, availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources, demand for energy commodities, production of natural gas, coal and crude oil, natural disasters, wars, embargoes and other catastrophic events, and federal, state and environmental regulation and legislation. In addition, significant fluctuations in the price of natural gas may cause significant fluctuations in the price of electricity. Significant fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our financial results and financial position by increasing the cost of producing power and decreasing the amounts we receive from the sale of power. 37 Table of Contents Our hedging activities will not fully protect us from fluctuations in commodity prices. We engage in hedging activities related to sales of electricity and purchases of fuel and emission allowances. The income and losses from these activities are recorded as operating revenues and fuel costs. We may use forward contracts and other derivative financial instruments to manage market risk and exposure to volatility in prices of electricity, coal, natural gas, emissions and oil. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between the forward contracts and the other derivative financial instruments used as a hedge and the market risk of the asset or assets being hedged. We cannot provide assurance that these strategies will be successful in managing our price risks, or that they will not result in net losses to us as a result of future volatility in electricity, fuel and emissions markets. Actual power prices and fuel costs may differ from our expectations. Our hedging activities include natural gas derivative financial instruments that we use to hedge economically power prices for our baseload generation. The effectiveness of these hedges is dependent upon the correlation between power and natural gas prices in the markets where we operate. If those prices are not sufficiently correlated, our financial results and financial position could be adversely affected. See note 4 to our consolidated financial statements and "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" in Item 7A of this Form 10-K. Additionally, we expect to have an open position in the market, within our established guidelines, resulting from our proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities. To the extent open positions exist, fluctuating commodity prices can affect our financial results and financial position, either favorably or unfavorably. As a result of these and other factors, we cannot predict the outcome that risk management decisions may have on our business, operating results or financial position. Although management devotes considerable attention to these issues, their outcome is uncertain. Our policies and procedures cannot eliminate the risks associated with our hedging and proprietary trading activities. The risk management procedures we have in place may not always be followed or may not always work as planned. If any of our employees were able to violate our system of internal controls, including our risk management policy, and engage in unauthorized hedging and related activities, it could result in significant penalties and financial losses. In addition, risk management tools and metrics such as value at risk, gross margin at risk, and stress testing are partially based on historic price movements. If price movements significantly or persistently deviate from historical behavior, risk limits may not fully protect us from significant losses. Our hedging, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities may increase the volatility of our GAAP financial results. Derivatives from our hedging, proprietary trading and fuel oil management activities are recorded on our balance sheet at fair value pursuant to the accounting guidance for derivative financial instruments. Other than interest rate swaps into which we entered to manage our interest rate risk associated with our GenOn Marsh Landing project financing, none of our other derivatives recorded at fair value is designated as a hedge under this guidance, and changes in their fair values currently are recognized in earnings as unrealized gains or losses. As a result, our GAAP financial results—including gross margin, operating income and balance sheet ratios—will, at times, be volatile and subject to fluctuations in value primarily because of changes in forward electricity and fuel prices. See notes 1 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 38 Table of Contents Risks Related to Governmental Regulation and Laws Our costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant and can affect our future operations and financial results. We are subject to extensive and evolving environmental regulations, particularly in regard to our coal- and oil-fired facilities. Environmental laws, particularly with respect to air emissions, disposal of ash, wastewater discharge and cooling water systems, are generally becoming more stringent, which may require us to make additional facility upgrades or restrict our operations. Failure to comply with environmental requirements could require us to shut down or reduce production at our facilities or create liabilities. We incur significant costs in complying with these regulations and, if we fail to comply, could incur significant penalties. Our cost estimates for environmental compliance are based on existing regulations or our view of reasonably likely regulations, and our assessment of the costs of labor and materials and the state of evolving technologies. Our decision to make these investments is often subject to future market conditions. Changes to the preceding factors, new or revised environmental regulations, litigation and new legislation and/or regulations, as well as other factors, could cause our actual costs to vary outside the range of our estimates, further constrain our operations, increase our environmental compliance costs and/or make it uneconomical to operate some of our facilities. See "Business Segments" above for a discussion of coal-fired generating facilities that we expect to deactivate between 2012 and 2015. Federal, state and regional initiatives to regulate greenhouse gas emissions could have a material impact on our financial performance and condition. The actual impact will depend on a number of factors, including the overall level of greenhouse gas reductions required under any such regulations, the final form of the regulations or legislation, and the price and availability of emissions allowances if allowances are a part of any final regulatory framework. We are required to surrender emissions allowances equal to emissions of specific substances to operate our facilities. Surrender requirements may require purchase of allowances, which may be unavailable or only available at costs that would make it uneconomical to operate our facilities. Certain environmental laws, including CERCLA and comparable state laws, impose strict and, in many circumstances, joint and several liability for costs of remediating contamination. Some of our facilities have areas with known soil and/or groundwater contamination. We could be required to spend significant sums to remediate contamination, regardless of whether we caused such contamination, (a) if there are releases or discoveries of hazardous substances at our generating facilities, at disposal sites we currently use or have used, or at other locations for which we may be liable, or (b) if parties contractually responsible to us for contamination fail to or are unable to respond when claims or obligations regarding such contamination arise. Under current and forecasted market conditions, capital expenditures required by our permit for the Shawville facility are not economic. Our NPDES permit requires installation of cooling towers or reduction in plant operation by July 2015 at our leased Shawville facility. Accordingly, we plan to place the coal-fired units at the Shawville facility, which is leased, in a long-term protective layup in April 2015. Under the lease agreement for Shawville, our obligations generally are to pay the required rent and to maintain the leased assets in accordance with the lease documentation, including in compliance with prudent competitive electric generating industry practice and applicable laws. We will continue to evaluate our options under the lease, including termination of the lease for economic obsolescence and/or keeping the facility in long-term protective layup during the term of the lease. We do not think that the lease documentation mandates that we operate the facility continuously and, so long as we are not operating it, we do not think that the installation of cooling towers, emissions controls and other expenditures would be required under the lease documentation. During the long-term protective layup of the Shawville facility, 39 Table of Contents we would continue to pay the required rent and to maintain the facility as required by the lease. In the event of an early termination, we would seek a termination for obsolescence under the lease agreement and could be required to make a termination payment equal to the difference between the termination value and the proceeds received in connection with the sale of the facility to a third-party, together with such other amounts, if any, required under the lease. At December 31, 2011, the total notional minimum lease payments for the remaining terms of the lease aggregated $203 million and the aggregate termination value for the lease was $218 million. We could have impairment charges related to our Shawville facility leasehold improvements. At December 31, 2011, we have leasehold improvements relating to this facility of $28 million recorded in property, plant and equipment in our consolidated balance sheet. Our coal-fired generating units produce certain byproducts that involve extensive handling and disposal costs and are subject to government regulation. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the costs of handling and disposing of these byproducts. As a result of the coal combustion process, we produce significant quantities of ash at our coal-fired generating units that must be disposed of at sites permitted to handle ash. One of our landfills in Maryland has reached design capacity and we expect that another one of our sites in Maryland may reach full capacity in the next few years. As a result, we are developing new ash management facilities and have constructed a facility to prepare ash from certain of our Maryland facilities for beneficial uses. However, the costs associated with developing new ash management facilities could be material, and the amount of time to complete such developments could extend beyond the time when new facilities are needed. Likewise, the new facility for preparing ash for beneficial uses may not operate as expected; or the ash may not be marketed and sold as expected. Additionally, costs associated with third-party ash handling and disposal are material and could have an adverse effect on our financial performance and condition. We also produce gypsum as a byproduct of the SO2 scrubbing process at our coal-fired generating facilities, much of which is sold to third parties for use in drywall production. Should our ability to sell such gypsum to third parties be restricted as a result of the lack of demand or otherwise, our gypsum disposal costs could rise materially. The EPA has proposed two alternatives for regulating byproducts such as ash and gypsum. One of these alternatives would regulate these byproducts as "special wastes" in a manner similar to the regulation of hazardous wastes. If these byproducts are regulated as special wastes, the cost of disposing of these byproducts would increase materially and may limit our ability to recycle them for beneficial use. Our business is subject to complex government regulations. Changes in these regulations, or their administration, by legislatures, state and federal regulatory agencies, or other bodies may affect the prices at which we are able to sell the electricity we produce, the costs of operating our generating facilities or our ability to operate our facilities. The majority of our generation is sold at market prices under market-based rate authority granted by the FERC. If certain conditions are not met, the FERC has the authority to withhold or rescind market-based rate authority and require sales to be made based on cost-of-service rates. A loss of our market-based rate authority could have a materially negative impact on our generating business. Even when market-based rate authority has been granted, the FERC may impose various forms of market mitigation measures, including price caps and operating restrictions, when it determines that potential market power might exist and that the public interest requires such potential market power to be mitigated. In addition to direct regulation by the FERC, most of our facilities are subject to rules 40 Table of Contents and terms of participation imposed and administered by various ISOs and RTOs. Although these entities are themselves ultimately regulated by the FERC, they can impose rules, restrictions and terms of service that are quasi-regulatory in nature and can have a material adverse impact on our business. For example, ISOs and RTOs may impose bidding and scheduling rules, both to curb the potential exercise of market power and to ensure market functions. Such actions may materially affect our ability to sell and the price we receive for our energy, capacity and ancillary services. To conduct our business, we must obtain and periodically renew licenses, permits and approvals for our facilities. These licenses, permits and approvals can be in addition to any required environmental permits. No assurance can be provided that we will be able to obtain and comply with all necessary licenses, permits and approvals for these facilities. Conflicts may occur between reliability needs and environmental rules, particularly with increasingly stringent environmental restrictions. Without a consent decree or adjustments to permit requirements, which require long lead times to obtain, we remain subject to environmental penalties or liabilities that may occur as a result of operating in compliance with reliability requirements. Further, we could be subject to citizen suits in these types of circumstances, even if we have received a consent decree or permit adjustment exempting us from environmental requirements. We cannot predict whether the federal or state legislatures will adopt legislation relating to the restructuring of the energy industry. There are proposals in many jurisdictions that would either roll back or advance the movement toward competitive markets for the supply of electricity, at both the wholesale and retail levels. In addition, any future legislation favoring large, vertically integrated utilities and a concentration of ownership of such utilities could affect our ability to compete successfully, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Similarly, any regulations or laws that favor new generation over existing generation could adversely affect our business. Risks Related to Level of Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease obligations could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, limit our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and prevent us from meeting or refinancing our obligations. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. At December 31, 2011, our consolidated indebtedness was $4.1 billion. In addition, the present values of lease payments under the respective GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA operating leases were approximately $881 million and $466 million, respectively (assuming a 10% and 9.4% discount rate, respectively) and the termination value of the respective GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA operating leases was $1.3 billion and $735 million, respectively. Our substantial indebtedness and operating lease obligations could have important consequences for our liquidity, results of operations, financial position and prospects, including our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. These consequences include the following: •they may limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; •a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations must be dedicated to the payment of rent and principal and interest on our indebtedness and will not be available for other purposes, including for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; 41 Table of Contents •the debt service requirements of our indebtedness and our lease obligations could make it difficult for us to satisfy or refinance our financial obligations; •certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under our senior secured credit facility, are at variable rates of interest, exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates; •they may limit our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our industry; •they may place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; •our new credit facilities contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest; and •we may be more vulnerable in a downturn in general economic conditions or in our business and we may be unable to carry out capital expenditures that are important to our long-term growth or necessary to comply with environmental regulations. GenOn and its subsidiaries that are holding companies, including GenOn Americas Generation, may not have access to sufficient cash to meet their obligations if their subsidiaries, in particular GenOn Mid-Atlantic, are unable to make distributions. We and certain of our subsidiaries, including GenOn Americas Generation and GenOn Americas, are holding companies and, as a result, are dependent upon dividends, distributions and other payments from our operating subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet our obligations. In particular, a substantial portion of the cash from our operations is generated by GenOn Mid-Atlantic. The ability of certain of our subsidiaries to pay dividends and make distributions is restricted under the terms of their debt or other agreements, including the operating leases of GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA. Under their respective operating leases, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA are not permitted to make any distributions and other restricted payments unless: (a) they satisfy the fixed charge coverage ratio for the most recently ended period of four fiscal quarters; (b) they are projected to satisfy the fixed charge coverage ratio for each of the two following periods of four fiscal quarters, commencing with the fiscal quarter in which such payment is proposed to be made; and (c) no significant lease default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. In the event of a default under the respective operating leases or if the respective restricted payment tests are not satisfied, GenOn Mid-Atlantic and REMA would not be able to distribute cash. At December 31, 2011, GenOn Mid-Atlantic satisfied the restricted payments test. At December 31, 2011, REMA did not satisfy the restricted payments test. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash to service our debt and leases and to post required amounts of cash collateral necessary to hedge economically market risk. Our ability to pay principal and interest on our debt and the rent on our leases depends on our future operating performance. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to allow us to make scheduled payments on our debt, we may have to reduce or delay capital expenditures, sell assets, seek additional capital, restructure or refinance. There can be no assurance that the terms of our debt or leases will allow these alternative measures, that the financial markets will be available to us on acceptable terms or that such measures would satisfy our scheduled debt service and lease rent obligations. If we do not comply with the payment and other material covenants under our debt and lease agreements, we could default under our debt or leases and, in the case of our revolving credit facilities, the commitment to lend us money could terminate. Our asset management activities may require us to post collateral either in the form of cash or letters of credit. At December 31, 2011, we had approximately $224 million of posted cash collateral and $265 million of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving credit facility primarily to support our asset management activities, trading activities, rent reserve requirements and other commercial arrangements. See note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our 42 Table of Contents posted cash collateral and letters of credit. Although we seek to structure transactions in a way that reduces our potential liquidity needs for collateral, we may be unable to execute our hedging strategy successfully if we are unable to post the amount of collateral required to enter into and support hedging contracts. We are an active participant in energy exchange and clearing markets, which require a per-contract initial margin to be posted. The initial margins are determined by the exchanges through the use of proprietary models that rely on a variety of inputs and factors, including market conditions. We have limited notice of any changes to the margin rates. Consequently, we are exposed to changes in the per unit margin rates required by the exchanges and could be required to post additional collateral on short notice. The terms of our credit facilities and leases restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or take certain actions. Our credit facilities and leases contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: •incur additional indebtedness; •pay dividends or make other distributions or repurchase or redeem capital stock; •prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; •make loans and investments; •sell assets; •incur liens; •enter into transactions with affiliates; •enter into sale-leaseback transactions; and •consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. In addition, the restrictive covenants in our credit facilities require us to maintain a ratio of consolidated secured debt (net of up to $500 million in cash and certain collateral assets and deposits) to EBITDA of not more than 3.50 to 1.00, which will be tested at the end of each fiscal quarter and, in the case of EBITDA, will be calculated on a rolling four fiscal quarter basis ending on the last day of such fiscal quarter. Our ability to meet that financial ratio can be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with the covenants in our credit facilities could result in an event of default under our credit facilities and any other debt to which a cross-default or cross-acceleration provision applies. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. None. 