RISK FACTORS If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam capsules, our revenues may decline significantly or we may not be able to maintain our expected annual growth rate. A substantial portion of our revenues and our annual revenue growth to date has resulted from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. We expect that a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future will continue to come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $62.5 million, or 72%, in 2005, $76.4 million, or 80%, in 2006 and $90.6 million, or 80% in 2007. In addition, we expect sales of other PillCam capsules, such as PillCam ESO and PillCam COLON, to increasingly contribute to our revenues in the future. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam capsules, and PillCam SB in particular, for any reason, including, for example, product recall, natural disaster, unavailability of components, war in Israel or as a result of a legal action against us, our revenues may decline significantly or we may not be able to maintain our expected annual growth rate. If we fail to increase utilization of our workstations and recurring orders of our PillCam SB capsule, we may not be able to achieve the growth rate we expect. Since sales of our PillCam SB capsule accounts for a substantial majority of our revenues, the level of recurring orders of our PillCam SB capsule by our customers is an important factor in growing our revenues. We are seeking to increase the level of recurring orders by a number of methods directed to increasing utilization of the PillCam capsules by physicians, including focused selling and marketing activities, frequent contact with our customers, improving reimbursement coverage, generating supporting clinical evidence to expand indications and educating physicians regarding the clinical benefits of the PillCam capsule, increasing operating efficiencies of our system to the benefit of physicians and collaborating with strategic industry participants. Increasing the level of recurring orders by our customers is also important to attracting new customers to purchase and use the Given System. If we are unable to increase utilization of our workstations and the level of recurring orders of our PillCam SB capsule, we may not be able to achieve the revenues necessary to maintain our growth rate. If the number of workstations or capsules we sell declines, we may not be able to achieve broader market penetration or may choose to place systems in the market at a discounted price, and our revenues and gross margins may be negatively affected. Our principal product is the Given System, consisting of a line of PillCam capsules and the related data recorder and computer workstation with our proprietary RAPID software. As of December 31, 2007, we had an installed base of nearly 4,250 systems worldwide. Growth in our installed base of Given Systems has contributed to our revenue growth. Our success in making or increasing sales of the Given System depends on a number of factors. First, we must demonstrate that the Given System is clinically-effective and cost-effective in diagnosing a range of disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, and we must inform and educate both physicians and the third-party payers responsible for providing reimbursement coverage about the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System. Second, we must broaden the applications for which the use of the Given System is reimbursed, expand the number of people with such reimbursement coverage and educate healthcare providers as to the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System for such broader indications so that they are encouraged to adopt the Given System. Third, we must continue to improve operational efficiencies of the Given System and demonstrate and convince gastroenterologists that the Given System fits within their normal practice routines. If the number of workstations or capsules we sell declines, we may not be able to achieve broader market penetration or may choose to place them in the market at a discounted price, in which case our revenues and gross margins will be negatively affected. If we are unable to expand reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payers for procedures using the Given System, or if reimbursement is insufficient to create an economic benefit for purchasing or using the Given System when compared to alternative procedures, demand for the Given System and PillCam capsules may not grow at the rate we expect. Demand for the Given System depends significantly on the eligibility of the procedures performed using the Given System for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and private third-party payers. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region, and we must obtain reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country and region-by-region basis. In general, the process of obtaining reimbursement coverage approvals has been longer outside of the United States. Historically, we have experienced higher sales in territories in which we have received reimbursement coverage for capsule endoscopy using the Given System and in territories in which health authorities and regulators approved the marketing or use of capsule endoscopy. We may not be able to obtain further approvals in a timely manner or at all and existing reimbursement coverage policies may be revised from time to time outside of our control by third-party payers. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers for procedures using the Given System, or if reimbursement is, or is perceived by our customers to be, insufficient to create an economic incentive for purchasing or using our product or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers compared to the other procedures they offer, demand for the Given System and the PillCam capsules may not grow at the rate we expect. 3 Our future growth depends in part on our ability to market the PillCam SB capsule as a primary endoscopic diagnostic tool for a variety of disorders of the small intestine. The PillCam SB capsule has been cleared for marketing by the FDA for the detection of disorders of the small intestine. In recent years, sales of PillCam SB capsules have accounted for the significant majority of our revenues. Our ability to market and sell our line of PillCam capsules is highly dependent on the availability and adequacy of third party reimbursement for the procedures performed with the Given System. Most reimbursement policies today cover the small bowel capsule endoscopy procedure only after a previous procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology, has been performed and many of them contain other requirements making coverage for indications beyond obscure gastrointestinal bleeding, or OGIB, such as suspected Crohn’s disease, more difficult to obtain for our customers. Our ability to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule depends substantially on our ability to convince third party payers to provide reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule as a primary diagnostic tool, without the requirement to perform a prior procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology, and to provide favorable and effective reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule for small bowel indications beyond OGIB. If we are unable to obtain such reimbursement coverage, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may not increase as we expect. If we are unable to expand the market for the PillCam ESO capsule and obtain adequate third-party reimbursement for the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure, sales of the PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as we expect or at all. Our ability to market and sell our PillCam ESO capsule depends significantly on our ability to expand the use of the PillCam ESO capsule. To date, PillCam ESO has been used primarily in the detection of esophageal varices, a condition prevalent in patients suffering from cirrhosis, a chronic liver disease. As of January 31, 2008, approximately 31 million individuals in the United States had reimbursement coverage for using the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure in the detection of esophageal varices. However, due to the limited prevalence of esophageal varices in the general population, we believe the market opportunity for the use of the PillCam ESO capsule in the detection of varices is limited. We believe that the primary market opportunity for our PillCam ESO capsule may be in the detection of Gastro-Esophageal Reflux Disease, or GERD, which is more prevalent in the general population than varices. However, in order to successfully market and sell the PillCam ESO capsule in the detection of GERD we must first generate and present clinical data supporting this use and, subsequently, to obtain adequate reimbursement coverage. Our ability to expand the use of the PillCam ESO capsule depends substantially on our ability to convince additional third party payers to provide reimbursement coverage for this capsule for the varices indication, the adequacy of such coverage and our ability to generate and present clinical data supporting reimbursement for the GERD indication. If we are unable to do so, sales of the PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as we expect or at all. If we are not successful in taking over marketing and sales of the PillCam ESO capsule in the United States following termination of our exclusive agreement with Ethicon Endo-Surgery, sales of our PillCam ESO capsule may not grow as we expect or at all. Until recently, InScope, a division of Ethicon Endo-Surgery, a Johnson & Johnson company, held exclusive rights to market our PillCam ESO capsule in the United States since this capsule received regulatory clearance in November 2004. In November 2007, Ethicon terminated the agreement with us and we regained all rights in connection with the PillCam ESO capsule in January 2008. Consequently, our future growth depends in part on our success in transitioning sales and marketing activities from Ethicon to us. Sales of the PillCam ESO capsule in 2007 were insignificant and may continue to be lower than we expect if we are not successful in marketing the PillCam ESO capsule. This may negatively impact our revenue growth. If we are unable to market and sell our PillCam COLON capsule we may miss a significant market opportunity and may not grow as we expect. In 2007, we began limited sales of our new PillCam COLON capsule in Europe. We intend to market and sell this capsule as a complementary tool for traditional colonoscopy for patients who are unable or unwilling to undergo traditional colonoscopy or have incomplete colonoscopy. However, in the United States the FDA has recently determined that the PillCam COLON is not substantially equivalent to any marketed device in the United States for visualization of the colon and therefore can not be cleared for marketing in the United States, our biggest market, through the 510(k) process based on the currently available clinical data. There can be no assurance that we will be able to receive FDA clearance for this capsule in the foreseeable future or at all or that the PillCam COLON will be accepted as comparable or superior to existing technologies for visualization of the colon. Our ability to market and sell the PillCam COLON successfully depends on one or more of the following: 4 • Receipt of FDA marketing clearance in the United States: We cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, we will be required to demonstrate that the PillCam COLON is safe and effective for its intended purpose. • The existence of clinical data sufficient to support the use of the PillCam COLON for visualization of the colon as compared to other colon visualization methods: If clinical trials indicate that PillCam COLON is not as clinically-effective as other current methods, or if the PillCam COLON procedure causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell this capsule or physicians may be reluctant to use it. • The availability of sufficient clinical and cost-effectiveness data for the American Medical Association, or AMA, to provide a favorable permanent “current procedural terminology”, or CPT, code and for private third-party payers to make an adequate reimbursement decision to provide coverage for the PillCam COLON procedure. • The availability of a reliable colon cleansing and preparation procedure for the PillCam COLON capsule, which is accepted by physicians and patients. If we are unable to achieve one or more of the above, we may not be able to market and sell the PillCam COLON capsule or the demand for the PillCam COLON may be lower than expected and sales of PillCam COLON may not contribute to our growth at the rate we expect or at all. We face direct competition from manufacturers of capsule endoscopy systems and may lose market share if we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace. Olympus Corporation has a competing capsule endoscopy system for the small bowel, which it is selling in the United States, Europe and Australia. In addition, we believe that other companies in Korea and China began selling capsule endoscopy systems for the small bowel in Asian and possibly other countries outside the United States and are selling these systems at a lower price than ours. If we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace against the Olympus capsule endoscopy system and other competing systems, we may lose market share, experience delays in completing sales as a result of longer decision making process among potential customers, or experience erosion of our gross margins as a result of growing price pressure. We face competition from large, well-established manufacturers of existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general which compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Competition for the Given System also comes from existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases. Existing technologies include traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manufacturers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Hoya, and Fujinon. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG, Philips Medical Systems Ltd., Toshiba Corporation and Shimadzu Corporation for x-ray equipment. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and they have established reputations as well as worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If we are unable to convince physicians to adopt the Given System over the current technologies marketed by our competitors, our results of operations may suffer. For details regarding our cooperation agreement with Fujinon, see “Item 4 – Business Overview – Competition.” In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to the Given System, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology may compete with our system for the same capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If we are unable to market the Given System more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget as the Given System, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our technology. Protection of our technology is key to our future success. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret, design and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not adequately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Currently, many of our patent applications are still pending and we will be able to use them to protect our technology against potential competitors only after they are issued. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in issued patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or at all. Our patents and applications cover particular aspects of our products and technology and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. There may be other effective technologies, designs or methods relating to capsule endoscopy. If other effective methods are not covered by our patents or applications and our competitors are able to commercialize products using these methods, it could have an adverse effect on our sales. In addition, our competitors may obtain patents that will prevent us from using technologies, designs or methods we would like to integrate into our products. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by former employees. Laws protecting intellectual property only provide protection in the jurisdiction they are enacted. The laws and judicial systems of foreign countries may not protect or enable enforcement of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or other parties could make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. For information regarding our patent litigation with Olympus, see Item 8 – Legal Proceedings. 5 If we are unable to successfully manage the introduction of new or improved products into the market, our operating results may be negatively affected. We began marketing and selling the Given System in August 2001. Since then, we have introduced new products or significant improvements to existing components of the Given System frequently. Newer products or system components may not be able to support and work with older product versions. For example, our PillCam COLON capsule only works with RAPID 5.0 or newer versions of the RAPID software. In order for as many of our customers as possible to utilize our most advanced capsule endoscopy technology, we need to manage new product introductions and installations efficiently, addressing concerns of customers regarding product upgrade costs, time constraints and training and education in light of possible short product cycles. If we are unable to cause our customers to use the most advanced technology available or effectively address compatibility issues between older and newer products, we may harm our competitive position and our sales may be negatively affected. In addition, a failure to successfully manage the transition to newer products, may result in obsolete inventory of older products, which we may be required to write off. This will negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to introduce new capsules and products for use in the gastrointestinal tract our growth may be negatively affected. Our objective is to expand the use of the Given System as a platform to be used with a variety of products and indications. We intend to add to our current PillCam capsules by developing and introducing new capsules and products. There can be no assurance that we will be able to develop new products that will enjoy widespread market acceptance as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that can be used in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, we will be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of new products, we may be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of these new products. If future clinical trials indicate that new products are not as clinically-effective or cost-effective as current methods, or that it may cause unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell these new products or obtain reimbursement coverage, and our growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the United States, our primary market for our products, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. Since we began selling the Given System in 2001, most of our revenues have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for $63.9 million, or 74%, of our revenues in 2005, $66.4 million, or 70%, of our revenues in 2006 and $72.3 million, or 64%, in 2007. Any disruption to our operations or market in the United States resulting from changes in management or the sales team of our U.S. subsidiary, adverse changes in reimbursement policies, new regulatory requirements, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside our control, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our operating results. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our products in Japan, one of our significant growth opportunities may be materially adversely affected. In April 2007, we received regulatory clearance to market our capital equipment and PillCam SB capsule in Japan and subsequently initial reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule was announced for indications involving obscure gastrointestinal bleeding. Suzuken Co. Ltd., one of Japan’s largest pharmaceutical and medical device distributors, has exclusive rights to distribute our products in Japan. Suzuken also owns 15% of our Japanese subsidiary. Consequently, our future growth in the Japanese market depends significantly on the success of Suzuken and on our business relationship with Suzuken. In addition, marketing our other products in Japan will require additional, product-specific regulatory clearances. In particular, the current regulatory clearance we have obtained in Japan covers an early version of our data recorder of which we now have only limited inventory remaining. We have applied for clearance for our more advanced version of data recorder, similar to the version we sell in the United States and Europe. Generally, the process for obtaining marketing clearance for medical devices in Japan could range from six months for products with only very minor modifications from previous cleared product versions to a few years in case of a completely new device. There is no assurance that we will receive regulatory clearances in Japan for any of our additional products. Finally, our main competitor in the field of capsule endoscopy is based in Japan and competition may be intense once it enters the Japanese market. If we are unable to successfully market and sell our products in Japan for any of the foregoing or other reasons, one of our significant growth opportunities will be materially adversely affected. 6 Because the medical device industry is litigious, we are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. We are currently a party to patent litigation in the United States against Olympus Corporation and its affiliates. For a detailed description, see “Item 8 – Financial Information – Legal Proceedings.” Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. While we have attempted to ensure that the Given System does not infringe other parties’ valid patents and proprietary rights, searches typically performed to identify potentially infringed patents of third parties are not always conclusive and, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents which our current or future products may infringe. In addition, our competitors or other parties may assert that our product and the methods it employs may be covered by patents held by them. If our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from selling them unless we can obtain a license or redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from operating our business. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA which could restrict the sale and marketing of the Given System and could cause us to incur significant costs. FDA regulations may require us to submit for clearance improvements and modifications of the Given System, including new or improved PillCam capsules and new or improved RAPID software versions, before we are allowed to market them in the United States. FDA regulations also prohibit us from promoting or advertising our cleared products for uses not within the scope of our clearances or making unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Currently, the Given System has been cleared by the FDA for the detection of abnormalities of the small intestine and the esophagus. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar FDA actions which could limit product sales or delay or halt product shipment. Additionally, if we are unable to receive FDA clearance for new or improved products, such as PillCam COLON, the marketing and sale of these products will be delayed or cancelled, which in turn may materially adversely affect our growth potential. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA also requires us to adhere to the Quality System Regulation, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of the Given System. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through inspections. Our quality system is also subject to the Medical Devices Directive of the European Union requiring compliance with the International Standard Organization’s standard ISO 9001:2000, ISO 13485:1996 and ISO 13485:2003, which are quality standards setting forth requirements for medical device manufacturers that are more specific than the general requirements specified in ISO 9001. If we fail a Quality System Regulation inspection by the FDA or any other regulator, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to a Quality System Regulation inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of the Given System, which would have a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country or region, we will not be able to market and sell the Given System in that country or region. In addition to the United States, Germany, France, Australia and Israel, where we market and sell the Given System directly with our own direct sales and marketing organizations, we sell the Given System in over 60 other countries. To be able to market and sell the Given System in a specific country or region, we or our distributors must comply with the regulations of that country or region. While the regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling the Given System or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals for all of our products in each country or region in which we plan to market our products. If we modify the Given System, we or our distributors may need to apply for new regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell it. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations in a particular country or region, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country or region, and our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. 7 Our failure to comply with radio frequency regulations in a specific country or region could impair our ability to commercially distribute and market the Given System in that country or region. The Given System includes a wireless radio frequency transmitter and receiver, and is therefore subject to equipment authorization requirements in a number of countries and regions. In the United States, Europe and Japan, authorities require advance clearance of all radio frequency devices before they can be sold or marketed in these jurisdictions. Modifications to the approved system design and specifications may require new or further regulatory approvals before we are permitted to market and sell a modified system. If we are unable to maintain our current approvals or obtain any additional required approvals from the authorities responsible for the radio frequency regulations in these and other jurisdictions where we sell the Given System, an enforcement action could be brought to prevent the sale or use of the Given System in these countries. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. Certain U.S. federal and state laws, including but not limited to the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibit, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of healthcare items or services reimbursable by a federal or state health care program such as Medicare or Medicaid. While the federal anti-kickback statute applies only to products or services for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a federal or state health care program, state laws often also apply to private third party payers such as commercial insurance plans. Other federal and state laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payers that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. These laws may apply to the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices, such as us, and may limit the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, and other potential purchasers of medical devices. The anti-kickback statute, similar federal and state laws, and false claims laws prescribe substantial civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. A government action against us under one of these legal authorities could result in financial and other penalties, delay or prohibit sales of some or all of our products or services and, even if unsuccessful, could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We rely on local distributors to market and distribute the Given System in most of the territories in which we sell it. With the exception of Australia, France, Germany, Israel and the United States, we rely on distributors for the marketing and distribution of the Given System. Under most of our agreements with local distributors, a distributor is granted the right to market the Given System for a specified period in a particular country or region, subject to the attainment of minimum sales targets. The distributor is required to prepare and submit to us for our approval a sales plan for the Given System and to obtain the requisite regulatory and reimbursement approvals for the Given System. Our success in generating sales in countries or regions where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not control. In 2007, we derived $24.7 million, or 21.8%, of our revenues from sales to local distributors, compared to $15.7 million, or 16.5%, from sales to local distributors in 2006. To date, we have changed a number of our distributors due to a failure to meet minimum sales targets and other reasons. If a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor and to train its personnel to market the Given System and our ability to sell the Given System in that distributor’s country or region could be adversely affected. Our reliance on single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. We depend on single source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of the Given System. For example, we have sole suppliers for the imaging sensor and transmitter of our PillCam capsules. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that we require, we may not be able to find alternative sources for these key components. Although we maintain a strategic inventory of key components, the inventory may not be sufficient to satisfy the demand for our products if supply is interrupted, and is subject to risk of loss due to catastrophic events such as fire at a storage facility. As a result, we may be unable to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. If we are required to change the manufacturer of any of these key components of the Given System, there may be a significant delay in locating a suitable alternative manufacturer. Additionally, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with FDA and other applicable quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the selection of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our product in a timely manner or within budget. Furthermore, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of our product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do business with us, we may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. 8 Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our product which could decrease our revenues. Our corporate offices, manufacturing facilities (other than our PillCam SB backup production line in Ireland), and research and development facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel may directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Any escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, could prevent us from using our corporate offices and primary manufacturing facility in Israel, harm our ability to manufacture and sell our products. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our business and ability to compete will be harmed. We are dependent on the principal members of our management, scientific staff and sales team. In order to implement our business strategy, we will need to keep our key personnel with expertise in research and development, clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance. Our product development plans depend in part on our ability to retain engineers with expertise in a variety of technical fields. The loss of a number of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel between ages 21 and 45 are obligated, unless exempt, to take part in military reserve duty annually. Many of our male employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty. Additionally, all Israeli residents who perform reserve duty are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or employees due to military service. Any such disruption to our operations could delay our business plans. Our international operations will expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In 2007, we derived 67.5% of our revenues in U.S. dollars and 23.3% in Euro, with the remainder denominated in Japanese Yen and other currencies. The currency denomination of our revenues depends on the location of the customer or the distributor used to fulfill our customers’ orders. Conversely, in 2007, in addition to our U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated liabilities, 31% of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or Shekels. Our Shekel-denominated liabilities consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future a material portion of our liabilities will continue to be denominated in Shekels. If the value of a currency in which our receivables are denominated devalues against the value of a currency in which our liabilities are denominated, there will be a negative impact on our operating margins, as well as on our net income. Our revenues and expenses may not always be fully hedged against our currency exposure through financial instruments. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our products in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 38% of our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we are therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations among the U.S. dollar, the Yen, the Shekel, the Australian dollar and the Euro. Recent global economic market conditions may negatively affect our liquidity and financial results. As of December 31, 2007, we had $37.1 million in cash and cash equivalents, which were held in bank accounts and deposits with maturities of three months or less located with a number of high rated banks inside and outside of Israel. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, we had $41.6 million invested in marketable securities and $23.1 million invested in short term investments. Approximately two thirds of these cash balances were invested in securities issued by the United States government or its agencies and in AAA money market funds. The remainder was held in corporate bonds and commercial paper that were highly-rated by rating agencies at the time of investment. Our cash and investments are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by the dislocation that has affected various sectors of the financial markets since the middle of 2007 and caused credit and liquidity issues for a number of reputable financial institutions. These risks associated with our investment portfolio may have a negative effect on our liquidity and financial results. 9 The use of the Given System, including ingestion of the PillCam capsules, could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, marketing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our product were to cause or contribute to injury or death, whether by aggravating existing patient symptoms or otherwise. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of the Given System might necessitate a product recall. Although we maintain product liability insurance for the Given System, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. In the future, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs and such insurance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A product liability claim, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, or any product recall could result in substantial costs to us, damage to our reputation, customer dissatisfaction and frustration and a substantial diversion of management attention. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or our failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. Our ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq Global Market in October 2001 and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in March 2004. In 2007, the closing price of our shares has ranged from $19.25 to $31.49 per share on the Nasdaq Global Market and NIS 81.47 to NIS 135.90 on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: future announcements concerning us or our competitors, the existence and outcome of litigation concerning our intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, and new clinical or economic data regarding our current or future products. In addition, it is our practice to provide guidance to the market as to our expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to us at the time of the guidance. If our operating results do not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our shares would likely decline. In addition, based on our experience to date, we believe that many of our customers delay purchasing our products until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, revenues from sales are concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for us to determine the success of each quarter until its end. This may result in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, we believe that demand for systems and capsules may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months when physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions due to summer vacations and patients are more likely to postpone less urgent diagnostic procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume of our ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in our ordinary shares, such as short selling. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility in the price of their shares. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. The largest beneficial owner of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., has significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, four individuals in Israel who together control IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., beneficially owned approximately 43.9% of our ordinary shares as of December 31, 2007. As a result, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. could exercise a significant influence over our operations and business strategy and has sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: • the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; • raising future capital; and • amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our other shareholders the opportunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. 10 Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of December 31, 2007, we had 29,241,785 million ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 50% of these shares are “control securities” available for resale on the Nasdaq Global Market subject, however, to volume limitations under Rule 144. In addition, all of our ordinary shares are available for resale on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, subject to compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933. Most of these restricted securities are held by the largest beneficial owner of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have periodically experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares, and if one or a small number of parties buys or sells a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price and the price and liquidity of our shares may be adversely affected. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq Global Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on the Nasdaq Global Market, and Shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders that may include having gains realized on the sale of our shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains and potential payment of additional tax which apply to such gains. Furthermore, in certain cases, long-term capital gains rates might also be denied for certain dividends that may be paid by us to our shareholders. We believe we were not a PFIC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the market value of our shares and valuing our intangible assets using the methods prescribed for publicly traded corporations, and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this decision. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will not become a PFIC, in particular, since the value of our shares is likely to fluctuate. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Taxation and Government Programs—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” U.S. shareholders are urged to consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. The government grants we have received from the Office of the Chief Scientist in Israel for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manufacture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist or be subject to criminal charges. From 1998 through 2007, we received royalty-bearing grants from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the financing of a portion of our research and development expenditures in Israel. While we have paid our entire royalty obligation resulting from these grants, the terms of the Chief Scientist grants prohibit us from manufacturing products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals and completely prohibit the transfer of our technologies and related intellectual property rights outside of Israel. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing, engage in change in control transactions or otherwise transfer our technology outside Israel. We currently hold an approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist to manufacture limited quantities of the PillCam SB capsule in a facility in Ireland and we will be required to obtain an approval before manufacturing the PillCam ESO capsule or the PillCam COLON capsule outside of Israel. If we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, we may be required to pay additional royalties to the Office of the Chief Scientist or be subject to criminal charges. We receive significant tax benefits that may be reduced or eliminated in the future. Our investment program in leasehold improvements and equipment at our manufacturing facility in Yoqneam, Israel has been granted “approved enterprise” status and we are therefore eligible for significant tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs such as ours. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase. In addition, our approved enterprise status imposes certain requirements on us, such as the location of our manufacturing facility, location of certain subcontractors and the extent to which we may outsource portions of our production process. If we do not meet these requirements, the law permits the authorities to cancel the tax benefits retroactively. See Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation.” 11 We may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees involved in research and development activities. We currently have non-competition agreements with substantially all of our employees who are involved in research and development, nearly all of whom are located in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time following termination of employment. In many jurisdictions, courts are increasingly refusing to enforce restrictions on competition by former employees or have interpreted them narrowly. For example, in Israel, courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. ITEM 