Item 1A. Risk Factors The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of the material risks relating to our business activities that we have identified. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, these risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and impair our ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In that case, the market price of our limited partner units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to allow us to pay quarterly distributions at current levels following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses. The amount of cash we can distribute on our limited partner units principally depends upon the cash we generate from our operations. Because the cash we generate from operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, we may not be able to pay quarterly distributions at the current level for each quarter. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our financial results depend on the demand for the petroleum products that we transport, store and distribute, among other factors, and unfavorable economic conditions could result in lower demand for these products for a sustained period of time. Any sustained decrease in demand for petroleum products in the markets served by our pipeline and terminals could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that we transport, store and distribute, and thereby reduce our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. Economic conditions worldwide have from time to time resulted in reduced demand for the products transported and stored by our pipelines and terminals and the services that we provide. Our financial results may also be affected by uncertain or changing economic conditions within certain regions, including the challenges that have affected economic conditions in the entire United States over the last several years. If economic and market conditions remain uncertain or adverse conditions persist for an extended period, we could experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Other factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: • an increase in the market prices of crude oil and petroleum products, which may reduce demand for crude oil, gasoline and other petroleum products. Market prices for petroleum products are subject to wide fluctuations in response to changes in global and regional supply and demand over which we have no control; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase the cost of the products we handle; • an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles, technological advances by manufacturers or federal or state regulations; and 14Table of Contents • an increase in the use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Current laws will require a significant increase in the quantity of ethanol and biodiesel used in transportation fuels between now and 2022. Such an increase could have a material impact on the volume of petroleum-based fuels transported on our pipeline or distributed through our terminals. A decrease in lease renewals at substantially lower rates at our storage terminals and at leased storage along our petroleum pipeline system could cause our leased storage revenues to decline, which would adversely impact our results of operations and the amount of cash we generate. Most of the revenues we earn from our leased storage at our storage terminals and from leased storage along our pipeline system are provided for in contracts negotiated with our leased storage customers. Many of those contracts are for multi-year periods and require our customers to pay a fixed rate for storage capacity regardless of market conditions during the contract period. Changing market conditions, including changes in petroleum product supply or demand patterns, financial market conditions, regulatory, accounting or other factors could cause our customers to be unwilling to renew their leased storage contracts with us when those contracts terminate, or make them willing to renew only at lower rates or for shorter contract periods. Failure by our customers to renew their leased storage contracts on terms and at rates substantially similar to our existing contracts could result in lower utilization of our facilities and could cause our leased storage revenues to be more volatile. We have built a significant amount of new storage to meet market demand in recent years, as have several of our competitors. In addition, storage facilities previously used to support refineries or other facilities have in some cases been redeployed to provide services that compete with our own services. Increased competition from other leased storage facilities could discourage our customers from renewing their contracts with us or cause them to renew their contracts with us at lower rates. We typically make capital investments in leased storage facilities only if we are able to secure contracts from our customers that support such investment; however, in some cases the initial term of those contracts is not sufficient to ensure that we fully earn the return we expect on those investments. If our customers do not renew such contracts or renew on less favorable terms, we could earn a return on those investments that is below our cost of financing, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Reduced volatility in energy prices or new government regulations could discourage our storage customers from holding positions in crude oil or refined products, which could adversely affect the demand for our storage services. We have constructed and continue to construct new storage tanks in response to increased customer demand for storage. Many of our competitors have also built new storage facilities. The demand for new storage has resulted in part from our customers' desire to have the ability to take advantage of profit opportunities created by volatility in the prices of crude oil and petroleum products. If the prices of crude oil and petroleum products become relatively stable, or if federal and/or state regulations are passed that discourage our customers from storing these commodities, demand for our storage services could decrease, in which case we may be unable to lease storage capacity or be forced to reduce the rates we charge for leased storage capacity, either of which would reduce the amount of cash we generate. Fluctuations in prices of petroleum products, LPGs and crude oil that we purchase and sell could materially affect our results of operations. We generate product sales revenues from our petroleum products blending and fractionation activities, as well as from the sale of product generated by the operation of our pipeline and terminals. We also maintain product inventory related to these activities. In addition, we own linefill inventory required for the operation of portions of our pipeline system, and we purchase and sell refined petroleum products and crude oil in connection with the management of that inventory. Significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in losses or lower profits from these activities, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate and our ability to pay cash distributions. Additionally, significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products or crude oil could result in significant unrealized gains or losses on transactions we enter to hedge our commodity exposure. To the extent these transactions have not been designated as hedges for accounting purposes, the associated non-cash unrealized gains and losses would directly impact our results of operations. We hedge prices of refined products and crude oil by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements, futures contracts traded on the NYMEX, options contracts or over-the-counter transactions. These hedging arrangements may not eliminate all price risks, could result in fluctuations in quarterly or annual profits and could result in material cash obligations that could negatively impact our financial position or our ability to pay distributions to our unitholders. We hedge our exposure to price fluctuations for our petroleum products and crude oil purchase and sale activities by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements, futures contracts traded on the NYMEX, options contracts or over-the-counter 15Table of Contentstransactions. To the extent these hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Accounting Standards Codification 815-30, Derivatives and Hedging, or they result in material amounts of ineffectiveness, we could experience material fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations. In addition, to the extent these hedges are entered into on a public exchange, we may be required to post margin, which could result in material cash obligations. Finally, these contracts may be for the purchase or sale of product in markets different from those in which we are attempting to hedge our exposure, resulting in hedges that do not eliminate all price risks. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk. Nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers, vendors, lenders or derivative counterparties could reduce our revenues, impair our liquidity, increase our expenses, or otherwise negatively impact our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers to whom we extend credit. In addition, we frequently undertake capital expenditures based on commitments from customers upon which we rely to realize the expected return on those expenditures, and nonperformance by our customers on those commitments could result in substantial losses to us. Similarly, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide products or services to us could result in higher costs, reduce our revenues or otherwise interfere with the conduct of our business. We also rely to a significant degree on the banks that lend to us under our revolving credit facility for financial liquidity, and any failure of those banks to perform on their obligations to us could significantly impair our liquidity. Furthermore, nonpayment by the counterparties to our interest rate and commodity derivatives could expose us to additional interest rate or commodity price risk. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers, vendors, lenders or derivative counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions. Losses sustained by any money market mutual fund or other investment vehicle in which we invest our cash or the failure of any bank or financial institution in which we deposit funds could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions. We typically invest any material amount of cash on hand in cash equivalents such as money market mutual funds. These funds are primarily comprised of highly rated short-term instruments. Nevertheless, significant market volatility and financial distress could cause such investments to lose value or reduce the liquidity of such investments. We may also maintain deposits at a commercial bank in excess of amounts insured by government agencies such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In addition, certain exchange-traded derivatives transactions we enter into in order to hedge commodity-related exposures frequently require us to make margin deposits with a broker. A failure of our commercial bank or our broker could result in our losing any funds we have deposited. Any losses we sustain on the investments or deposits of our cash could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions. We rely on access to capital to fund acquisitions and growth projects and to refinance existing debt obligations. Unfavorable developments in capital markets could limit our ability to obtain funding or require us to secure funding on terms that could limit our financial flexibility, reduce our liquidity, dilute the interests of our existing unitholders and/or reduce our cash flows and ability to pay distributions. We regularly consider and pursue growth projects and acquisitions as part of our efforts to increase cash available for distribution to our unitholders. These transactions can be effected quickly, may occur at any time and may be significant in size relative to our existing assets and operations. We do not retain sufficient cash flow to finance these projects and acquisitions internally, and consequently the execution of our growth strategy requires regular access to outside sources of capital. Any limitations on our access to capital on satisfactory terms will impair our ability to execute this strategy. Similarly, we generally do not retain sufficient cash flow to repay our indebtedness when it matures and will rely on new capital to refinance these obligations. Limitations on our access to capital, including on our ability to issue additional debt and equity, could result from events or causes beyond our control, and could include, among other factors, significant increases in interest rates, increases in the risk premium required by investors, generally, or for investments in energy-related companies or master limited partnerships, decreases in the availability of credit or the tightening of terms required by lenders. Any limitations on our ability to refinance these obligations by securing new capital on satisfactory terms could severely limit our liquidity, our financial flexibility and/or our cash flows, and could result in the dilution of the interests of our existing unitholders. Economic conditions that have persisted during the last several years amplify certain risks inherent in our business. The U.S. and many other countries have experienced weak economic conditions and frequently volatile financial markets since 2007. During that period, these conditions have periodically resulted in significant reductions in access to capital, and capital constraints coupled with significant energy price volatility and generally weak economic conditions have resulted in 16Table of Contentsfinancial and liquidity issues for many companies, including some of our customers, as well as national, state and municipal governments. Such conditions have created significant uncertainty in the economic outlook and have amplified the potential impact and likelihood of the occurrence of certain risks inherent in our business. Such risks include: • increased cost of capital and increased difficulties accessing capital to fund expansion and acquisition activities; • the inability or unwillingness of lenders to honor their contractual commitments; • the failure of customers to timely or fully pay amounts due to us; • the failure of suppliers to pay third parties under obligations for which we have potential contingent liabilities; • the failure of counterparties to fulfill their delivery or purchase obligations; and• the potential for adverse actions by rating agencies. Rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates we charge on our petroleum pipeline system may reduce the amount of cash we generate. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements on our petroleum pipeline system. Shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the FERC may investigate new or changed tariff rates. Further, other than for rates set under market-based rate authority, the FERC may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline system's cost-of-service. In addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC may also investigate tariff rates absent shipper complaint. If existing rates challenged by complaint are determined by the FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline system's cost-of-service, the FERC could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. The FERC's ratemaking methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. The FERC's primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. We use this methodology to establish our rates in approximately 40% of our markets. The FERC's indexing methodology is subject to review every five years and currently allows a pipeline to change its rates each year to a new ceiling level, which is calculated as the previous year's ceiling level multiplied by a percentage. For the five-year period ending June 30, 2011, the indexing method required a pipeline to change its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3%. In December 2010, the FERC established a new price index level of PPI-FG plus 2.65% for the five-year period beginning July 1, 2011. Certain shippers have requested a rehearing of this matter by the FERC and other shippers have asked a U.S. court of appeals to review FERC's decision. At this time, management is unable to determine whether the FERC will rehear this matter or whether the court of appeals will review it or what outcome might result should such rehearing or court review occur. If the PPI-FG falls and our rates are at the ceiling level, we would be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC's price indexing methodology. We establish rates in approximately 60% of our markets using the FERC's market-based ratemaking regulations. These regulations allow us to establish rates based on conditions in individual markets without regard to the index or our cost-of-service. If we were to lose our market-based rate authority, we would then be required to establish rates on some other basis, such as our cost-of-service. Any reduction in the indexed rates, removal of our ability to establish market-based rates or payment of reparations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and reduce the amount of cash we generate. Changes in price levels could negatively impact our revenues, our expenses or both, which could adversely affect our results from operations, our liquidity and our ability to pay quarterly distributions. The operation of our assets and the implementation of our growth strategy require significant expenditures for labor, materials, property, equipment and services. Increases in the cost of these items could increase our expenses or capital costs. We may not be able to pass these increased costs on to our customers in the form of higher fees for our services. We use the FERC's PPI-based price indexing methodology to establish tariff rates in approximately 40% of the markets served by our petroleum pipeline system. For the five-year period ending June 30, 2011, the indexing method provided for a pipeline to change its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3% and for the five-year period beginning July 1, 2011, the indexing method provides for changes in rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 2.65%. Certain shippers have requested a rehearing of this matter by the FERC. At this time, management is unable to determine whether the FERC will rehear this matter or what outcome might result should such rehearing occur. This methodology could 17Table of Contentsresult in changes in our revenues that do not fully reflect changes in the costs we incur to operate and maintain our petroleum pipeline system. For example, our costs could increase more quickly or by a greater amount than the PPI-FG index plus 2.65% used by the FERC methodology. Further, in periods of general price deflation, the PPI-FG index could fall, in which case we could be required to reduce our index-based rates, even if the actual costs we incur to operate our assets increase. Changes in price levels that lead to decreases in our revenues or increases in the prices we pay to operate and maintain our assets could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products and ammonia, including ruptures, leaks and fires. In addition, our operations are exposed to potential natural disasters, including hurricanes, tornadoes, storms, floods and/or earthquakes. Our storage and pipeline facilities located near the U.S. Gulf Coast, for example, have experienced damage and interruption of business due to hurricanes. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks related to our business. In addition, as a result of market conditions or of losses experienced by us or by other companies, premiums for our insurance policies could increase significantly. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions. Changes in federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the environmental and operational safety aspects of our operations could increase our costs and liabilities. Each of our operating segments is subject to the risk of incurring substantial costs and liabilities under environmental and safety laws and regulations. These costs and liabilities arise under increasingly stringent environmental and safety laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies, and as a result of claims for damages to property or persons arising from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. If we were unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. The terminal and pipeline facilities that comprise our petroleum pipeline system have been used for many years to transport, distribute or store petroleum products. Over time our operations, or operations by our predecessors or third parties not under our control, may have resulted in the disposal or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes at or from these terminal properties and along such pipeline rights-of-way. In addition, some of our terminals and pipelines are located on or near current or former refining and terminal sites, and there is a risk that contamination is present on those sites. We may be subject to strict, joint and several liability under a number of these environmental laws and regulations for such disposal and releases of hydrocarbons or solid wastes or the existence of contamination, even in circumstances where such activities or conditions were caused by third parties not under our control or were otherwise lawful at the time they occurred. Further, the transportation of hazardous materials in our pipelines may result in environmental damage, including accidental releases that may cause death or injuries to humans, third-party damage, natural resource damages and/or result in federal and/or state civil and/or criminal penalties that could be material to our results of operations and cash flows. Anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations could subject us to significant penalties and related third-party damage claims.We are required to observe anti-market manipulation laws and related regulations enforced by the FTC and CFTC and to comply with FERC rate regulation. The FTC and CFTC hold substantial enforcement authority under the anti-market manipulation laws and regulations, including the ability to assess civil penalties of up to $1 million per day per violation. The FTC, CFTC and FERC also have authority to order disgorgement of profits or refunds and to recommend criminal penalties. Should we violate these laws and regulations, we could also be subject to related third-party damage claims.Potential regulations under the Dodd-Frank Act regarding derivatives could have an adverse effect on our ability to use derivative instruments to reduce the effect of commodity price risk and other risks associated with our business. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”), was signed into law which, among other things, establishes federal oversight and regulation of the over-the-counter derivatives market and the entities, such as us, that participate in that market. Significant regulations are required to be promulgated by the SEC and 18Table of Contentsthe Commodity Futures Trading Commission within 360 days from the date of enactment to implement the new legislation. The new legislation, to the extent applicable to us or our derivative counterparties, may result in increased costs and cash collateral requirements for the types of derivative instruments we use to hedge and otherwise manage our financial and commercial risks related to fluctuations in commodity prices, and could have an adverse effect on our ability to hedge risks associated with our business. Many of the key concepts and processes under the Dodd-Frank Act are not defined and must be delineated by rules and regulations to be adopted by the applicable regulatory agencies. As a consequence, it is not possible at this time to predict the effects that the Dodd-Frank Act or the resulting rules and regulations may have on our hedging activities. Climate change legislation or regulations restricting emissions of “greenhouse gases” could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the products that we transport, store or distribute. In December 2009, the EPA published its findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other “greenhouse gases” present an endangerment to public health and the environment because emissions of such gases are, according to EPA, contributing to warming of the earth's atmosphere and other climatic changes. These findings allow the EPA to adopt and implement regulations that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases under existing provisions of the CAA. Accordingly, the EPA had proposed two sets of CAA regulations that would require a reduction in emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and could trigger permit review for greenhouse gas emissions from certain stationary sources. In addition, in October 2009, the EPA issued a final CAA rule requiring the reporting of greenhouse gas emissions from specified large greenhouse gas emission sources in the United States, including sources that emit more than 25,000 tons of greenhouse gases on an annual basis, beginning in 2011 for emissions occurring in 2010. In June 2010, the EPA issued a final rule addressing greenhouse gas emissions in permits for major stationary sources of air emissions, which may ultimately result in emission controls. In November 2010, the EPA adopted a final rule requiring reporting of greenhouse gases from certain oil and gas facilities beginning in 2012 for emissions occurring in 2011. The adoption and implementation of any CAA regulations limiting emissions of greenhouse gases from our equipment and operations or those of customers for whom we transport, store or deliver product, could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases associated with our operations or could adversely affect demand for our services. In addition, Congress has actively considered various proposals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that may impose a carbon emissions tax, a cap-and-trade program or other programs aimed at carbon reduction, including the American Clean Energy and Security Act passed by the U.S. House of Representatives in June 2009 and a similar bill in the U.S. Senate. Either bill would have established an economy-wide "cap-and-trade" program to reduce U.S. emissions of greenhouse gases. Future laws might require reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 with a further reduction of such emissions by 2050. The U.S. Senate has considered similar cap-and-trade legislation, and Congress may consider these or similar legislation. Allowances under a future cap-and-trade program would be expected to escalate significantly in cost over time. The net effect of such potential legislation would be to impose increasing costs on the combustion of carbon-based fuels such as oil, refined petroleum products and natural gas. The Obama Administration has indicated its support of legislation to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through an emission allowance system. In addition, at least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. It is not possible at this time to predict whether or when Congress will adopt climate change legislation, or how state and federal legal and regulatory initiatives will interact. The effect on our operations of CAA regulations, legislative efforts or related implementation regulations that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas that we conduct business could adversely affect the demand for the products that we transport, store and distribute and, depending on the particular program adopted, could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities, measure and report our emissions, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. We may be unable to include some or all of such increased costs in the rates charged by our pipelines or other facilities, and any such recovery may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC or state regulatory agencies and the provisions of any final legislation or implementing regulations. In addition, some scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, droughts, floods and other climate events; if any such effects were to occur, they could have an adverse effect on our assets and operations. 19Table of ContentsMany of our storage tanks and significant portions of our pipeline system have been in service for several decades. Our pipeline and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many decades. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. We depend on refineries and petroleum pipelines owned and operated by others to supply our pipelines and terminals. We depend on connections with refineries and petroleum pipelines owned and operated by third parties as a significant source of supply for our facilities. Outages at these refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these pipelines because of weather-related or other natural causes, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in our being unable to deliver products to our customers from our terminals or receive products for storage or reduce shipments on our pipelines and could adversely affect our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions. The closure of refineries that supply, or are supplied by, our petroleum pipeline system could result in disruptions or reductions in the volumes we transport and store and in the amount of cash we generate. Refineries that supply, or are supplied by, our facilities are subject to regulatory developments, including but not limited to regulations regarding fuel specifications, plant emissions and safety and security requirements that could significantly increase the cost of their operations and reduce their operating margins. In addition, the profitability of the refineries that supply our facilities is subject to regional and sometimes global supply and demand dynamics that are difficult to predict. A period of sustained weak demand or increased cost of supply could make refining uneconomic for some refineries, including those located along our petroleum pipeline system. The closure of a refinery that delivers product to or receives crude from our petroleum pipeline system could reduce the volumes we transport and the amount of cash we generate. Further, the closure of these refineries could result in these companies electing to store and distribute refined petroleum products through their proprietary terminals, which could result in a reduction of our storage volumes. Competition could lead to lower levels of profits and reduce the amount of cash we generate. We compete with other existing pipelines and terminals that provide similar services in the same markets as our assets. In addition, our competitors could construct new assets or redeploy existing assets in a manner that would result in more intense competition in the markets we serve. We compete with other transportation, storage and distribution alternatives on the basis of many factors, including but not limited to rates, service levels, geographic location, connectivity and reliability. Our customers could utilize the assets and services of our competitors instead of our assets and services, or we could be required to lower our prices or increase our costs to retain our customers, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenue, but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and liabilities and increasing our risk of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial equity capital or us to incur substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management's attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are 20Table of Contentscombined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. For example, we completed the acquisition of the Houston-to-El Paso pipeline section in July 2009. The purchase price was $252.3 million plus $86.1 million for related linefill inventory. We financed the acquisition with debt, which substantially increased our indebtedness. Subsequently, we have purchased additional inventory to facilitate product shipments on the pipeline. We continue to develop the customer base for this pipeline system, which had minimal commercial activity when we acquired it as a result of the former owner's 2008 bankruptcy filing, and we anticipate the ramp-up of operations to continue through 2012. During this period, the operating cash flow derived from the assets may be significantly less than we ultimately anticipate once the customer base has been fully developed. As a result, our cash from operations and our credit metrics could be adversely affected during this ramp-up period. In addition, during this period, we will likely continue to own a significant portion of the related linefill inventory, and we could be exposed to price fluctuations in the value of that inventory, or to margin deposits or similar arrangements required by any transactions we enter to hedge the value of that inventory. We cannot assure that the ramp-up period will be limited to one or two years or that we will ever build a customer base for this pipeline system that fully meets our expectations. In addition, we could experience other unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of the acquisition, or we could discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired assets. The storage and pipeline assets we acquired from BP depend on facilities owned and operated by others and on a limited number of customers. The crude oil pipeline system and the refined petroleum pipeline system that we acquired from BP both depend to a substantial degree on the operation of the Texas City, Texas refineries to which those systems are connected, resulting in significant exposure to the performance of the owners of those refineries. In addition, those systems rely on connections to various other pipelines owned and operated by others for supply and distribution of the crude oil and refined petroleum products transported on those systems. Outages at the Texas City, Texas refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these connecting pipelines because of weather-related or other natural causes, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could reduce the shipments on the pipeline systems we have acquired, which could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions. The crude oil storage assets that we acquired from BP in Cushing, Oklahoma have been leased solely by an affiliate of the seller of those assets, and we are subject to risks of loss from nonpayment by that customer. In addition, any decision by that customer not to renew its lease at the end of the original lease term could result in a reduction of the revenues we receive related to those assets, which could adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to pay distributions. Our expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flows and may exceed our cost estimates. We have begun or anticipate beginning numerous expansion projects which will require us to make significant capital investments. We will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows we expect these projects to generate will not materialize, if at all, until some time after the projects are completed. The amount of time and investment necessary to complete these projects could exceed the estimates we used when determining whether to undertake them. For example, we must compete with other companies for the materials and construction services required to complete these projects, and competition for these materials or services could result in significant delays and/or cost overruns. Any such cost overruns or unanticipated delays in the completion or commercial development of these projects could reduce our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store, transport or sell. Petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For instance, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our petroleum pipeline system, or changes in the product specifications in the markets we serve, could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products, which would result in a 21Table of Contentsreduction of our revenues and operating profit from blending activities. Any such reduction of our revenues or operating profit could have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position, cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions. Terrorist attacks that are aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the U.S. government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, and the nation's pipeline and terminal infrastructure in particular, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. High natural gas prices can increase ammonia production costs and reduce the amount of ammonia transported through our ammonia pipeline system. The profitability of our ammonia customers partially depends on the price of natural gas, which is the principal raw material used in the production of ammonia. An extended period of high natural gas prices may cause our customers to produce and ship lower volumes of ammonia, which could adversely affect our cash flows. Increases in interest rates could increase our financing costs and reduce the amount of cash we generate, and could adversely affect the trading price of our units. As of December 31, 2010, we had $1,865.0 million of debt outstanding (excluding unamortized discounts and premiums on debt issuances and the unamortized portion of fair value hedges). Of this amount, borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility of approximately $15.0 million were subject to variable interest rates. We also expect to make additional floating-rate borrowings under our revolving credit facility to partially finance future expansion capital spending. As a result, we have exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. We may also use interest rate derivatives to effectively convert some of our fixed-rate notes to floating-rate debt, thereby increasing our exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. In addition, the execution of our growth strategy and the refinancing of our existing debt could require that we issue additional fixed-rate debt, and consequently we also have potential exposure to changes in long-term interest rates. Rising interest rates could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. Moreover, the trading price of our units is sensitive to changes in interest rates and could be adversely affected by any increase in interest rates. Restrictions contained in our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility. We are subject to restrictions with respect to our debt that may limit our flexibility in structuring or refinancing existing or future debt and prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. These restrictions include, among other provisions, the maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to grant liens, to sell assets or to repay existing debt without penalties. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. Our general partner's board of directors' absolute discretion in determining our level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner's board of directors to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner's board of directors to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our unit purchase rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. We currently have a unit purchase rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill.” This poison pill will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our general partner's board of directors and may have the effect of deterring future takeover attempts. The practical effect of a poison pill is to require a party seeking control of us to negotiate with our general partner's board of directors, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us and the replacement or removal of management. This poison pill, coupled with other anti-takeover provisions in our partnership agreement and under Delaware law, could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual 22Table of Contentsunitholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which unitholders would receive a premium for their limited partner units over current prices. Tax Risks to Limited Partner Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our limited partner units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. A change in our business or a change in current law could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Payments to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate dividends, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our limited partner units. The tax treatment of our structure could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. Current law may change so as to cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. For example, at the federal level, members of the U.S. Congress have recently considered substantive changes to the existing federal income tax laws that would have affected certain publicly traded partnerships. Although the most recently proposed legislation would not appear to affect us, such legislation could be reintroduced and amended prior to enactment in a manner that does apply to us. We are unable to predict whether any of these changes, or other proposals, will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Moreover, any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively. Any such changes could negatively impact a unitholder's investment in our limited partner units. At the state level, changes in current state law may subject us to additional entity-level taxation by individual states. Specifically, because of widespread state budget deficits and for other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. Imposition of any such taxes may reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS has made no determination as to our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of the positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. 23Table of Contents Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a limited partner unit, which decreased their tax basis in that limited partner unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be taxed as ordinary income due to potential recapture items, including depreciation recapture. In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholder's share of nonrecourse liabilities, if our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as employee benefit plans, individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs) and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file U.S. federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax-exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our limited partner units. We will treat each purchaser of limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual limited partner units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the limited partner units. Primarily because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury Regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our limited partner units each month based upon the ownership of our limited partner units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our limited partner units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury Regulations. Recently, however, the Department of the Treasury and the IRS issued proposed Treasury Regulations that provide a safe harbor pursuant to which a publicly traded partnership may use a similar monthly simplifying convention to allocate tax items among transferor and transferee unitholders. Although existing publicly traded partnerships are entitled to rely on these proposed Treasury Regulations, they are not binding on the IRS and are subject to change until final Treasury Regulations are issued. A unitholder whose limited partner units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of limited partner units may be considered to have disposed of those limited partner units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those limited partner units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose limited partner units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of limited partner units may be considered to have disposed of the loaned limited partner units, the unitholder may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those limited partner units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those limited partner units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those limited partner units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their limited partner units. 24Table of Contents We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between our partners. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our limited partner units. When we issue additional limited partner units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our partners. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our partners. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders' sale of our limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders' tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have technically terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit are counted only once. Our technical termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1 if relief was not available, as described below) for one fiscal year, and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year results in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in the unitholder's taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS has recently announced a publicly traded partnership technical termination relief program whereby, if the taxpayer requests relief and such relief is granted by the IRS, among other things, the partnership will only have to provide one Schedule K-1 to unitholders for the year notwithstanding two partnership tax years. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we conduct business or own property now or in the future, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in 22 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders' responsibility to file all U.S. federal, state and local tax returns. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 