ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORSLaclede Group’s and the Utilities' business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company and the Utilities consider to be material. When considering any investment in Laclede Group or the Utilities' securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption "Forward-Looking Statements," Item 7A, and other documents Laclede Group and Laclede Gas file with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive, and Laclede Group's and the Utilities' respective management places no priority or likelihood based on the risk descriptions, order of presentation or grouping by subsidiary. All references to dollar amounts are in millions.RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF LACLEDE GROUP AND ITS SUBSIDIARIESAs a holding company, Laclede Group depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.Laclede Group is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries and cash investments. Laclede Group, and the Missouri Utility prior to Laclede Group’s formation, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. Laclede Group’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments. In addition, because it is a holding company and the substantial portion of its assets are represented by its holdings in the Utilities, the risks faced by the Utilities as described under RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS UTILITY SEGMENT below may also adversely affect Laclede Group’s cash flows, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations.A downgrade in Laclede Group’s and/or its subsidiaries' credit ratings may negatively affect its ability to access capital.Currently, Laclede Group and its utility subsidiaries have investment grade credit ratings, which are subject to review and change by the rating agencies. On December 16, 2013, Standard & Poor’s lowered its debt ratings for Alagasco from investment grade with a stable outlook to investment grade with a negative outlook. In April 2014, upon the announcement of Laclede Group’s intent to acquire Alagasco, Standard & Poor’s upgraded the outlook to “positive.” Upon the completion of the acquisition by Laclede Group, Standard & Poor’s upgraded Alagasco's debt ratings to A-, stable outlook. Laclede Group, Laclede Gas and Alagasco each have a working capital line of credit to meet their short-term liquidity needs. Laclede Group’s line of credit may also be used to meet the liquidity needs of any of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies lowered the credit rating at any of these entities, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit such entity’s ability to secure new or additional credit facilities and would increase its costs of borrowing. Laclede Group’s or the Utilities’ ability to borrow under current or new credit facilities and costs of that borrowing have a direct impact on their ability to execute their operating strategies. In the fourth quarter of 2014, Laclede Group issued its first public debt and received its first senior unsecured debt ratings. Standard & Poor’s rated Laclede Group debt BBB+, one notch lower than its issuer rating of A-, while Fitch also rated the Laclede Group debt at BBB+, equal to its issuer rating, and Moody’s (which does not use issuer ratings) rated the Laclede Group debt at Baa2. These rating levels have no specific implications for Laclede Group's corporate funding ability or our ability to access the capital markets, nor do they trigger any collateralization requirements under Laclede Group's corporate guarantees. There is no assurance that such credit ratings for any of the Laclede Group companies will remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant.Unexpected losses may adversely affect Laclede Group’s or its subsidiaries financial condition and results of operations.As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Laclede Group’s subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Laclede Group or any of its subsidiaries becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion of, but not all, risks and losses. In addition, in the normal course of its operations, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries may be exposed to loss from other sources, such as bad debt expense or the failure of a counterparty to meet its financial obligations. Laclede Group and its operating companies employ many strategies to gain assurance that such risks are appropriately managed, mitigated, or insured, as appropriate. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance or other risk mitigation strategies, that loss could adversely affect the Company’s and/or its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations.12Table of ContentsIncreased inter-dependence on technology may adversely hinder Laclede Group’s and its subsidiaries' business operations and affect their financial condition and results of operations if such technologies fail or are compromised.Over the last several years, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries have implemented a variety of technological tools including both Company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties. In fiscal year 2013, the Company completed its implementation of a Company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. These tools and systems support critical functions including Laclede Group and its subsidiaries' integrated planning, scheduling and dispatching of field resources, its automated meter reading system, customer care and billing, procurement and accounts payable, operational plant logistics, management reporting, and external financial reporting. The failure of these or other similarly important technologies, or the Company’s or Laclede Gas' inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder its business operations and adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company and its subsidiaries have, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into their computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect against all potential issues related to the loss of any such technologies or the Utilities’ use of such technologies. Laclede Gas has also completed the acquisition of the assets and liabilities of MGE in Kansas City. Through fiscal 2015, Laclede Gas will be integrating MGE’s data into its systems. The Company recently completed the acquisition of the common stock of Alagasco. Alagasco utilizes a different ERP system which will remain in place pending review of the Company's long-term ERP needs during the integration process. The Company continues to evaluate Alagasco’s security controls, both process and tool based.Furthermore, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee, and vendor information maintained by the Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of business, as well as breaches in the technology that manages natural gas distribution operations and other business processes. A loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other technology business tools could adversely affect the Company’s and its subsidiaries' reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject the Company and its subsidiaries to possible financial liability, any of which could have a material effect on the Company’s and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations. The Company and its subsidiaries closely monitor both preventive and detective measures to manage these risks and maintains cyber risk insurance to mitigate a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these cyber events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company’s and its subsidiaries' financial condition and results of operations. Resources expended to pursue business acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements may adversely affect Laclede Group’s financial position and results of operations and return on investments made may not meet expectations.From time to time, Laclede Group may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements, including the recent MGE and Alagasco acquisitions, the opening of public compressed natural gas (CNG) stations or other future opportunities. Attractive acquisition candidates may be difficult to acquire on economically acceptable terms. It is possible for Laclede Group to expend considerable resources pursuing an acquisition candidate, but for a variety of reasons such as changes in economic conditions, changes in the acquisition candidate’s business or concerns arising out of due diligence review, decide not to consummate a definitive transaction. To the extent that acquisitions are made, such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including but not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, the diversion of management’s attention from daily operations to the integration of the acquisition, difficulties in assimilation and retention of employees, securing adequate capital to support the transaction, and regulatory approval. Uncertainties exist in assessing the value, risks, profitability, and liabilities associated with certain businesses or assets and there is a possibility that anticipated operating and financial synergies expected to result from an acquisition do not develop. The failure to complete an acquisition successfully, or to integrate future acquisitions that it may choose to undertake could have an adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and the market’s perception of the Company’s execution of its strategy. In order to manage and diversify the risks of certain development projects, Laclede Group may use partnerships or other investments. Such business arrangements may limit Laclede Group’s ability to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationship. These arrangements may cause additional risks such as operating agreements limiting Laclede Group's control or Laclede Group's ability to appropriately value the business drivers or assets of the business arrangement. While Laclede Group would pursue strategies to mitigate these risks and enforce its interests, these risks may adversely impact the projects and Laclede Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.In addition, to the extent Laclede Group engages in any of the above activities together with or through one or more of its subsidiaries, including the Utilities, such subsidiaries may face the same risks.13Table of ContentsWorkforce risks may affect the Company's financial results.The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to various workforce risks, including, but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages.Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact the Utilities’ financial condition and results of operations.Laclede Group and its subsidiaries are subject to changes in US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), SEC regulations and other interpretations of financial reporting requirements for public utilities. Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries have any control over the impact these changes may have on their financial condition or results of operations nor the timing of such changes. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes to GAAP, that the US Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) continues to consider may be significant.RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES' ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION ACTIVITIESAs a result of recent acquisitions, the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to risks related to a higher level of indebtedness.In connection with the Alagasco and MGE acquisitions, Laclede Group and Laclede Gas incurred additional debt to pay a portion of the acquisition cost and transaction expenses. On August 19, 2014 Laclede Group issued unsecured debt in the aggregate principal amount of $625.0 to finance the acquisition of Alagasco. On August 13, 2013, Laclede Gas issued debt in the aggregate principal amount of $450.0 to finance the acquisition of MGE. Laclede Group's total consolidated indebtedness as of September 30, 2014 was $2,138.1 ($287.1 of short-term borrowings and $1,851.0 of long-term debt) and Laclede Gas' total indebtedness as of September 30, 2014 was $1,046.5 ($238.6 of short-term borrowings and $807.9 of long-term debt).Laclede Group’s and Laclede Gas' debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on their earnings and cash flows (which after the acquisitions include the earnings and cash flows of MGE and, in the case of Laclede Group, Alagasco) for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding. Among other risks, the increase in indebtedness may:•make it more difficult for Laclede Group or Laclede Gas to pay or refinance their debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit the Company’s or Laclede Gas' flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in its business and the industry in which they operate and, consequently, place them at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt;•require an increased portion of the Company’s or Laclede Gas' cash flows from operations of their respective subsidiaries to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of their cash flows to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes;•result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Laclede Group’s or the Utilities’ indebtedness, which could limit the Utilities’ ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to Utilities’ indebtedness;•result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in market interest rates for both long-term debt and short-term commercial paper or bank loans at variable rates;•reduce the amount of credit available to support hedging activities; and•require that additional terms, conditions or covenants be placed on the Company or Laclede Gas.Based upon current levels of operations, Laclede Group or Laclede Gas expect to be able to generate sufficient cash through earnings on a consolidated basis or through refinancing to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under their existing credit agreements, indentures and other instruments governing outstanding indebtedness; but there can be no assurance that Laclede Group or Laclede Gas will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations in future periods.In addition, in order to maintain investment-grade credit ratings, Laclede Group and Laclede Gas may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding following the acquisitions. This may be accomplished in several ways, including, in the case of Laclede Group, issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, or in the case of Laclede Group or Laclede Gas, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. Issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that shareholders hold in the Company, increase the Company’s dividend payment obligations and might reduce the reported earnings per share. 14Table of ContentsThe acquisition of MGE and/or Alagasco may not achieve its intended results, including anticipated efficiencies and cost savings.Although the Company and its subsidiaries expect that the acquisition of MGE and Alagasco will result in various benefits, including a significant cost savings and other financial and operational benefits, there can be no assurance regarding when or the extent to which the Company and its subsidiaries will be able to realize these benefits. Achieving the anticipated benefits, including cost savings, is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the assets acquired can be operated in the manner the Company and its subsidiaries intended. Events outside of the control of the Company and its subsidiaries, including but not limited to regulatory changes or developments, could also adversely affect their ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the MGE and Alagasco acquisitions. Thus the integration of MGE and Alagasco may be unpredictable, subject to delays or changed circumstances, and the Company and its subsidiaries can give no assurance that the acquisitions will perform in accordance with their expectations or that their expectations with respect to integration or cost savings as a result of the MGE and Alagasco acquisitions will materialize. In addition, the anticipated costs to the Company and its subsidiaries to achieve the integration of MGE and Alagasco may differ significantly from their current estimates. The integration may place an additional burden on management and internal resources, and the diversion of management’s attention during the integration process could have an adverse effect on the Company's and its subsidiaries' business, financial condition and expected operating results.In connection with the MGE and the Alagasco acquisitions, Laclede Gas and Laclede Group, respectively, recorded goodwill and long-lived assets that could become impaired and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.Laclede Group and Laclede Gas will assess goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. The Company and Laclede Gas will assess their long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. To the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets becomes impaired, the Company and Laclede Gas may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on its results of operations. No impairment of long-lived assets was recorded during 2014 or 2013. Since interest rates are a key component, among other assumptions, in the models used to estimate the fair values of the Company's reporting units, as interest rates rise, the calculated fair values decrease and future impairments may occur. Due to the subjectivity of the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment analysis, Laclede Group and Laclede Gas cannot provide assurance that future analysis will not result in impairment. These assumptions and estimates include projected cash flows, current and future rates for contracted capacity, growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and market multiples. For additional information, see Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies.”RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS UTILITY SEGMENTRegulation of the Utilities’ businesses may impact rates they are able to charge, costs, and profitability.The Utilities are subject to regulation by federal, state and local regulatory authorities. At the state level, the Utilities are regulated by regulatory authorities in Missouri by the MoPSC and in Alabama by the APSC. The state regulatory authorities regulate many aspects of the Utilities’ distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that the Utilities may charge customers, the terms of service to their customers, transactions with their affiliates, and the rate of return that they are allowed to realize; as well as the accounting treatment for certain aspects of their operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Critical Accounting Policies pertaining to the Utilities’ operations. The Utilities’ ability to obtain and timely implement rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return is subject to regulatory review and approval. There can be no assurance that they will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue earning the current authorized rates of return. Furthermore, in accordance with a MoPSC’s Unanimous Stipulation and Agreement, the Missouri Utility will not file a general rate case for non-gas costs prior to October 1, 2015 unless a significant, unusual event impacts any of its operations. The first Missouri Utility general rate case filed in Missouri after October 1, 2015, requires that it be for both the legacy Laclede Gas and the MGE operations. Alagasco’s rate setting process, Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE), is subject to regulation by the APSC and is implemented pursuant to an APSC order that will continue beyond September 30, 2018, unless the APSC enters an order to the contrary in a manner consistent with the law. Under the current RSE order, Alagasco is allowed to earn a return on average common equity between 10.5% and 10.95%. Quarterly reviews are conducted by the APSC and if it is determined that Alagasco will exceed the allowed range of return, rates are reduced to bring the projected return within the allowed range. Rates can only be increased once a year effective December 1. Alagasco’s year-end equity under RSE is limited to 56.5% of total capitalization, subject to certain adjustments. The RSE order includes a Cost Control Mechanism (CCM) which requires Alagasco’s operation and maintenance expenses to be within an allowed index range based on inflation-adjusted from 2007 actual operation and 15Table of Contentsmaintenance (O&M) expenses. If O&M expenses exceed the index range, 75% of the amount over the range is returned to customers through future rate adjustments. The Utilities could incur additional costs if required to adjust to new laws or regulations, revisions to existing laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If the Utilities fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new, they could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate Utilities’ operations.The Utilities are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect their results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.The Utilities are involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require the Utilities to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in their financial statements, or to the extent they are not covered by insurance, could adversely affect the Utilities’ results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.The Utilities’ liquidity may be adversely affected by delays in recovery of their costs, due to regulation.In the normal course of business, there may be a lag between when the Utilities incur increases in certain of their costs and the time in which those costs are considered for recovery in the ratemaking process. Cash requirements for increased operating costs, increased funding levels of defined benefit pension and postretirement costs, capital expenditures, and other increases in the costs of doing business may require outlays of cash prior to the authorization of increases in rates charged to customers, as approved by the MoPSC and APSC. Accordingly, the Utilities’ liquidity may be adversely impacted to the extent higher costs are not timely recovered from their customers. In accordance with a MoPSC Unanimous Stipulation and Agreement, the Missouri Utility will not file a general rate case for non-gas costs prior to October 1, 2015 unless a significant, unusual event impacts any of its operations. The first Missouri Utility general rate case filed in Missouri after October 1, 2015, is required to be for both the legacy Laclede Gas and the MGE operations.The Utilities’ ability to meet their customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.In order to meet their customers’ annual and seasonal natural gas demands, the Utilities must obtain sufficient supplies, interstate pipeline capacity, and storage capacity. If they are unable to obtain these, either from their suppliers’ inability to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure replacement quantities, the Utilities’ financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If a substantial disruption in interstate natural gas pipelines’ transmission and storage capacity were to occur during periods of heavy demand, the Utilities’ financial results could be adversely impacted.The Utilities’ liquidity and, in certain circumstances, Utilities’ results of operations may be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly.The Missouri Utility's tariff rate schedules contain Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clauses and the Alabama Utility’s tariff rate schedule contains a Gas Supply Adjustment (GSA) rider that permit the Utilities to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources. Currently, the Missouri Utility is allowed to adjust the gas cost component of its rates up to four times each year while the Alabama Utility may adjust its gas cost component of its rates on a monthly basis. The Missouri Utility must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment at the beginning of the winter, in November, and during the next twelve months it may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months.The MoPSC typically approves the Missouri Utility’s PGA changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. Increases in the prices the Missouri Utility charges for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause some customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. The Missouri Utility has used short-term borrowings in the past to finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and expects to do so in the future. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas may result in an increase in short-term debt.16Table of ContentsTo lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, the Missouri Utility enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, the Missouri Utility may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, swaps, futures, and option contracts. However, the Missouri Utility does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains, or losses experienced through hedging procedures, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA clause, thereby limiting the Missouri Utility’s exposure to earnings volatility. However, variations in the timing of collections of such gas costs under the PGA clause and the effect of cash payments for margin deposits associated with the Missouri Utility’s use of natural gas derivative instruments may cause short-term cash requirements to vary. These procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC.The Utilities may be adversely affected by economic conditions.Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies, a loss of existing customers, fewer new customers especially in newly constructed buildings. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect the Utilities’ revenues and cash flows or restrict their future growth. Economic conditions in Utilities’ service territory may also adversely impact the Utilities’ ability to collect Utilities’ accounts receivable resulting in an increase in bad debt expenses.Environmental laws and regulations may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs.The Utilities are subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of their present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utilities to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and approvals. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may result in costs to the Utilities in the form of fines, penalties or business interruptions, which may be material. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and/or new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to the Utilities or their facilities, thereby impacting the Utilities’ cost of compliance. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, including former manufactured gas plant sites, and claims against the Utilities under environmental laws and regulations may result in expenditures and liabilities, which could be material. To the extent environmental compliance costs are not fully covered by insurance or recovered in rates from the Utilities’ customers, those costs may have an adverse effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and results of operations.The Utilities are subject to pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or significant increases in operating costs.Such laws and regulations affect various aspects of the Utilities’ present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utilities maintain pipeline safety and system integrity by identifying and reducing pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures that would not be recoverable from customers in rates and could result in a material effect on the Utilities’ financial condition and results of operations.Transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas and transporting and storing propane involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.There are inherent in gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to the Utilities. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Similar risks also exist for the Missouri Utility's propane storage and transmission operations. These activities may subject the Utilities to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against the Utilities or be resolved on unfavorable terms. The Utilities are subject to Federal and State laws and regulations requiring the Utilities to maintain certain safety and system integrity measures by identifying and managing storage and pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Utilities maintain insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Utilities’ financial condition and results of operations.17Table of ContentsBecause of the highly competitive nature of its business, the Utilities may not be able to retain existing customers or acquire new customers, which would have an adverse impact on its businesses, operating results and financial conditions. Both the Missouri Utility and the Alabama Utility face the risk that customers may bypass gas distribution services by gaining distribution directly from interstate pipelines. The Utilities cannot provide any assurance that increased competition or other changes in legislation, regulation or policies will not have a material adverse effect on their business, financial condition or results of operation.The Utilities compete with distributors offering a broad range of services and prices, from full-service distributors to those offering delivery only. The Utilities also compete for retail customers with suppliers of alternative energy products, principally propane and electricity. If they are unable to compete effectively, the Utilities may lose existing customers and/or fail to acquire new customers, which would have a material adverse effect on their business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utilities’ competitive position compared with alternative energy sources.Changes in wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utilities’ retention of natural gas customers and may adversely impact their financial condition and results of operations.Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions, the effects of global warming and climate change, and other factors that influence customer usage may affect the Utilities’ sale of heating energy and adversely impact their financial position and results of operations.The Utilities’ earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Missouri Utility has weather mitigation rate designs and the Alabama Utility has customer use adjustments, each of which is approved by the respective state regulatory body, which provide better assurance of the recovery of each Utilities’ fixed costs and margins during winter months despite variations in sales volumes due to the impacts of weather and other factors that affect customer usage. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utilities’ service areas and other factors, such as global warming, climate change and alternative energy sources, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales. Furthermore, continuation of the weather mitigation rate design at Laclede Gas, the rate design where distribution costs are recovered predominantly through fixed monthly charges at MGE or the Rate Stabilization and Equalization (RSE) at Alagasco are subject to regulatory discretion. In addition, the promulgation of regulations by the EPA or the potential enactment of Congressional legislation addressing global warming and climate change may result in future additional compliance costs that could impact the Utilities’ financial conditions and results of operations.Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national pipeline infrastructure, as well as regulatory discretion, may adversely affect the Missouri Utility's ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release.The Missouri Utility's income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Missouri Utility holds pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Missouri Utility’s income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively-priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Income from off-system sales and capacity release is shared with customers. The Missouri Utility is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $6.0 in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $6.0 annually. In accordance with an agreement approved by the MoPSC, Laclede Gas deferred, until fiscal year 2017, its ability to retain 15% of the first $2.0. MGE is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $3.6 in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $3.6 annually. The Missouri Utility’s ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding.Catastrophic events may adversely affect the Utilities’ facilities and operations.Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornadoes, hurricanes, tropical storms, terrorist acts, pandemic illnesses or other similar occurrences could adversely affect the Utilities’ facilities and operations. The Utilities have emergency planning and training programs in place to respond to events that could cause business interruptions. However, unanticipated events or a combination of events, failure in resources needed to respond to events, or slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on the Utilities’ operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The availability of insurance covering catastrophic events may be limited or may result in higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms.18Table of ContentsRISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS MARKETING SEGMENTIncreased competition, fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, expiration of supply and transportation arrangements, and pipeline infrastructure projects may adversely impact LER’s future profitability.Competition in the marketplace and fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on LER’s business. Changing market conditions and prices, the narrowing of regional and seasonal price differentials, and limited future price volatility may adversely impact LER’s sales margins or affect LER’s ability to procure gas supplies and/or to serve certain customers, which may reduce sales profitability and/or increase certain credit requirements caused by reductions in netting capability. Also, LER’s profitability may be impacted by the effects of the expiration, in the normal course of business, of certain of its natural gas supply contracts if those contracts cannot be replaced and/or renewed with arrangements with similar terms and pricing. Although the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas and establishes the general terms and conditions under which LER may use interstate gas pipeline capacity to purchase and transport natural gas, LER must occasionally renegotiate its transportation agreements with a concentrated group of pipeline companies. Renegotiated terms of new agreements, or increases in FERC-authorized rates of existing agreements, may impact LER’s future profitability. Profitability may also be adversely impacted if pipeline capacity or future storage capacity secured by LER is not fully utilized and/or its costs are not fully recovered.Reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent LER from executing operating strategies.LER relies on its cash flows, netting capability, parental guarantees, and access to Laclede Group’s liquidity resources to satisfy its credit and working capital requirements. LER’s ability to rely on parental guarantees is dependent upon Laclede Group’s financial condition and credit ratings. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, counterparty acceptance of parental guarantees may diminish, resulting in decreased availability of credit. Additionally, under such circumstances, certain counterparties may require LER to provide prepayments or cash deposits, amounts of which would be dependent upon natural gas market conditions. Reduced access to credit or increased credit requirements, which may also be caused by factors such as higher overall natural gas prices, may limit LER’s ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, LER has concentrations of counterparty credit risk in that a significant portion of its transactions are with (or are associated with) energy producers, utility companies, and pipelines. These concentrations of counterparties have the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that each of these three groups may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry, or other conditions. LER also has concentrations of credit risk in certain individually significant counterparties. LER closely monitors its credit exposure and, although uncollectible amounts have not been significant, increased counterparty defaults are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations.Risk management policies, including the use of derivative instruments, may not fully protect LER’s sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses.In the course of its business, LER enters into contracts to purchase and sell natural gas at fixed prices and index-based prices. Commodity price risk associated with these contracts has the potential to impact earnings and cash flows. To minimize this risk, LER has a risk management policy that provides for daily monitoring of a number of business measures, including fixed price commitments. LER currently manages the commodity price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of natural gas futures, options, and swap contracts traded on or cleared through the NYMEX and ICE to lock in margins. These exchange-traded/cleared contracts may be designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. Additionally, to the extent that LER’s natural gas contracts are classified as trading activities or do not otherwise qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales designation (or the designation is not elected), the contracts are recorded as derivatives at fair value each period. Accordingly, the associated gains and losses are reported directly in earnings and may cause volatility in results of operations. Gains or losses (realized and unrealized) on certain wholesale purchase and sale contracts, consisting of those classified as trading activities, are required to be presented on a net basis (instead of a gross basis) in the statements of consolidated income. Such presentation could result in volatility in the Company’s operating revenues.LER’s ability to meet its customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies and interstate pipeline services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.LER’s ability to deliver natural gas to its customers is contingent upon the ability of natural gas producers, other gas marketers, and interstate pipelines to fulfill delivery obligations to LER under firm contracts. If these counterparties fail to perform, they have a contractual obligation to reimburse LER for adverse consequences. LER will attempt to use such reimbursements to 19Table of Contentsobtain the necessary supplies so that LER may fulfill its customer obligations. To the extent that it is unable to obtain the necessary supplies, LER’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted.Regulatory and legislative developments pertaining to the energy industry may adversely impact LER’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.LER’s business is non-regulated in that the rates it charges its customers are not established by or subject to approval by any regulatory body. However, LER is subject to various laws and regulations affecting the energy industry. New regulatory and legislative actions may adversely impact LER’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by potentially reducing customer growth opportunities and/or increasing the costs of doing business.LER could incur additional costs to comply with new laws and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If LER fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new ones, it could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate its operations.ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTSNone.