Item 1A. Risk Factors Laclede Group’s business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company considers to be the most material. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF LACLEDE GROUP AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES As a holding company, Laclede Group depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. Laclede Group is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries. Laclede Group, and Laclede Gas prior to Laclede Group’s formation, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. However, Laclede Group relies exclusively on dividends from its subsidiaries and on the repayments of principal and interest from intercompany loans made to its subsidiaries for its cash flows. Laclede Group’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries, including Laclede Gas, to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loan repayments to Laclede Group. A downgrade in Laclede Group’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Currently, Laclede Group’s corporate rating is A by Standard & Poor’s and A- by Fitch. Laclede Group has working capital lines of credit to meet the short-term liquidity needs of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit rating, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit its ability to borrow and would increase its costs of borrowing. Laclede Group’s ability to borrow and costs of borrowing have a direct impact on its non-regulated subsidiaries’ ability to execute operating strategies. Risk of unexpected losses may adversely affect the Group’s financial position and results of operations. As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Laclede Group’s subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Laclede Group becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion, but not all, risks and losses. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance, that loss could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE REGULATED GAS DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Risks related to the regulation of the Utility business could impact rates it is able to charge, costs and profitability. Laclede Gas is regulated by the Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC or Commission). This authority regulates many aspects of its distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that the Utility may charge customers, the terms of service to its customers and the rate of return that it is allowed to realize; as well as the accounting treatment for certain aspects of its operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Critical Accounting Policies pertaining to Laclede Gas, beginning on page 25. Laclede Gas’ ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue receiving the current authorized rates of return. Laclede Gas’ liquidity and, in certain circumstances, its results of operations could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Laclede Gas’ tariff rate schedules contain purchased gas adjustment clauses that permit the Utility to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources. Currently Laclede Gas is allowed to adjust the gas cost component of its rates up to four times each year. The Utility must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment in November at the beginning of the winter, and during the next twelve months, it may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months. The MoPSC typically approves the Utility’s purchased gas adjustment changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. Increases 10 in the prices the Utility charges for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. Laclede Gas has used short-term borrowings in the past to finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and expects to do so in the future. Hedging procedures may not fully protect Laclede Gas sales and results of operations from volatility, and the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in financial losses. To lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, Laclede Gas enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, the Utility may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, futures and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX). However, the Utility does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains or losses experienced through hedging procedures generally flow through the purchased gas adjustment clause, thereby limiting its exposure to volatility. However, these procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC. Laclede Gas is dependent on bank lines of credit and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. In addition to longer term debt that is issued to the public by the Utility under its mortgage and deed of trust dated February 1, 1945, Laclede Gas has relied, and continues to rely, upon shorter term bank borrowings or commercial paper supported by bank lines of credit to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. The Utility is dependent on these capital sources to purchase its natural gas supply and maintain its properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Utility, or it may not be able to obtain money at a reasonable cost in the future. Laclede Gas’ ability to borrow under its lines of credit, or to issue commercial paper supported by its lines of credit, depends on its compliance with the Utility’s obligations under the lines of credit. A downgrade in the Utility’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Standard & Poor’s rating group, Moody’s Investor Service, Inc. and Fitch, Inc. from time to time implement new requirements for various ratings levels. To maintain Laclede Gas’ current credit ratings in light of any new requirements, it may find it necessary to take steps to change its business plans in ways that may affect its results of operations. Currently, Laclede Gas’ first mortgage bonds are rated A by Standard & Poor’s, A3 by Moody’s and A+ by Fitch. The Utility’s commercial paper currently is rated A-1 and P-2 by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s, respectively. If the rating agencies lowered the Utility’s ratings, particularly below investment grade, it could significantly limit its access to the commercial paper market and would increase its costs of borrowing. In addition, Laclede Gas would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and the Utility’s potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Also, credit ratings are an independent assessment of the Utility’s ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated. Transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. There are inherent in gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions and mechanical problems, that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations and substantial losses to Laclede Gas. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject the Utility to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines or penalties against the Utility or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices Laclede Gas maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, they could adversely affect the Utility’s financial position and results of operations. Increases in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utility’s competitive position compared with alternative energy sources. Laclede Gas is the only distributor of natural gas within its franchised service area. Historically, the Utility has sold natural gas to residential, commercial and small industrial markets at prices equal to or lower than prices charged for 11 other sources of energy. Nevertheless, rising wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utility’s retention of natural gas customers and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations. Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions may affect the Utility’s sale of heating energy and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations. Laclede Gas’ earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Utility has a weather mitigation rate design, approved by the MoPSC, which lessens the impact of weather volatility during the peak cold months of December through March, and reduces the impact of weather, to a lesser extent, during the months of November and April. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utility’s service area, particularly in November and April, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales levels. Furthermore, the weather mitigation rate design is subject to regulatory discretion. Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national pipeline infrastructure may adversely affect Laclede Gas’ ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release. Laclede Gas’ income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Utility holds pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Utility’s income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Currently, income from off-system sales and capacity release is retained by the Utility, but amounts above a predetermined level, if any, are shared with customers. The Utility’s ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE NON-REGULATED GAS MARKETING SEGMENT Risks of increased competition, regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, and new national pipeline infrastructure projects may adversely impact LER’s future profitability. Competition in the marketplace and regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on LER’s business. Changing market conditions caused by new pipeline infrastructure may adversely impact LER’s sales margins or affect LER’s ability to serve certain wholesale customers, thereby increasing certain credit requirements and/or reducing wholesale sales volumes and profitability. Risks of reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent LER from executing operating strategies. In addition to its cash flows, LER relies on parental guarantees and loans to cover the lag between when it purchases its natural gas and when its customers pay for that gas. Although LER’s uncollectible amounts are closely monitored and have not been significant, significant uncollectible amounts from customers are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations. Risk management policies and the use of cash flow hedging may not fully protect LER’s sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses. LER manages the price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of exchange-traded futures contracts to lock in margins. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE NON-REGULATED SERVICES SEGMENT Competition and the ability to retain customers may impact SM&P’s sales and profitability. The underground locating industry remains competitive. Many of SM&P’s contracts are subject to termination on short-term notice. SM&P’s customers are primarily in the utility and telecommunications sectors. In addition, SM&P’s results are influenced by construction seasonality and trends. Customer losses and technological changes could impact SM&P’s profitability and its ability to do business in certain geographic areas. 12 Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 