Item 1A. Risk Factors Laclede Group’s business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company considers to be material. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF LACLEDE GROUP AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES As a holding company, Laclede Group depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. Laclede Group is a holding company with no significant assets other than cash investments and the stock of its operating subsidiaries. Laclede Group, and Laclede Gas prior to Laclede Group’s formation, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. However, Laclede Group relies exclusively on dividends from its subsidiaries, on intercompany loans from its non-utility subsidiaries, and on the repayments of principal and interest from intercompany loans made to its subsidiaries for its cash flows. Laclede Group’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments to Laclede Group. Laclede Group’s cash flows for fiscal year 2008 included proceeds fro m the sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary, SM&P. A downgrade in Laclede Group’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Currently, Laclede Group’s corporate ratings are A by Standard & Poor’s and A- by Fitch. Laclede Group has working capital lines of credit to meet the short-term liquidity needs of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit rating, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit its ability to borrow and would increase its costs of borrowing. Laclede Group’s ability to borrow and costs of borrowing have a direct impact on its subsidiaries’ ability to execute operating strategies. Risk of unexpected losses may adversely affect Laclede Group’s financial condition and results of operations. As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Laclede Group’s subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Laclede Group becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion of, but not all, risks and losses. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance, that loss could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Changes in accounting standards may adversely impact Laclede Group’s financial condition and results of operations. The SEC is currently considering whether issuers in the United States of America (U.S.) should be required to prepare financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) instead of U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP). IFRS is a comprehensive set of accounting standards promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), which are rapidly gaining worldwide acceptance. The SEC has indicated that it will decide in 2011 whether IFRS will be required for U.S. issuers. If the SEC decides to require IFRS, it expects that U.S. issuers would first report under the new standards beginning in approximately 2015 or 2016. Unlike U.S. GAAP, IFRS does not currently address the accounting for rate-regulated activities, such as those of Laclede Gas. As such , if IFRS were adopted in its current state, Laclede Gas may be precluded from applying regulatory accounting principles, including the recognition of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. Although the IASB currently has a project on its agenda to examine the accounting for rate-regulated activities, there is no assurance that such project will result in the issuance of a final standard or that such a standard would be comparable to current U.S. GAAP. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes associated with the adoption of IFRS, may adversely impact Laclede Group’s and Laclede Gas’ financial condition and results of operations, should adoption of IFRS be required. Also, the U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board is considering various changes to U.S. GAAP, some of which may be significant, as a part of a joint effort with the IASB to converge accounting standards. If approved, adoption of these changes may adversely impact Lacle de Group’s and Laclede Gas’ financial condition and results of operations. 12 Table of Contents RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE REGULATED GAS DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Risks related to the regulation of the Utility business could impact rates it is able to charge, costs, and profitability. The Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC or Commission) regulates many aspects of the Utility’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that the Utility may charge customers, the terms of service to its customers, and the rate of return that it is allowed to realize; as well as the accounting treatment for certain aspects of its operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Critical Accounting Policies pertaining to Laclede Gas, beginning on page 32. Laclede Gas’ ability to obtain and timely implement rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obta in rate increases or rate supplements or continue earning the current authorized rates of return. Laclede Gas’ liquidity could be adversely affected by delays in recovery of its costs, due to regulation. In the normal course of business, there may be a lag between when the Utility incurs increases in certain of its costs and the time in which those costs are considered for recovery in the ratemaking process. Cash requirements for increased operating costs, increased funding levels of defined benefit pension and postretirement costs, capital expenditures, and other increases in the costs of doing business may require outlays of cash prior to the authorization of increases in rates charged to customers, as approved by the MoPSC. Accordingly, the Utility’s liquidity may be adversely impacted to the extent higher costs are not timely recovered from its customers. Laclede Gas’ ability to meet its customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services are not available or delivered in a timely manner. In order to meet its customers’ annual and seasonal natural gas demands, the Utility must obtain sufficient supplies, interstate pipeline capacity, and storage capacity. If it is unable to obtain these, either from its suppliers’ inability to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure replacement quantities, Laclede Gas’ financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. Laclede Gas’ liquidity and, in certain circumstances, its results of operations could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Laclede Gas’ tariff rate schedules contain Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) Clauses that permit the Utility to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources. Currently, Laclede Gas is allowed to adjust the gas cost component of its rates up to four times each year. The Utility must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment at the beginning of the winter, in November, and during the next twelve months it may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months. The MoPSC typically approves the Utility’s PGA changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. Increases in the prices the Utility charges for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause some customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. Laclede Gas has used short-term borrowings in the past to finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and expects to do so in the future. Rapid increases in the price of purchased g as may result in an increase in short-term debt because Laclede Gas must pay suppliers for gas in advance of when its customers pay for that gas. To lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, Laclede Gas enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, the Utility may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, futures, and option contracts. However, the Utility does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains, or losses experienced through hedging procedures, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA Clause, thereby limiting the Utility’s exposure to earnings volatility. However, variations in the timing of collections of such gas costs under the PGA Clause and the effect of cash payments for margin deposits associated with the Utility’s us e of natural gas derivative instruments may cause short-term cash requirements to vary. These procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC. 13 Table of Contents Laclede Gas may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity, such as that currently being experienced, generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in its service territory may also adversely impact the Utility’s ability to collect its accounts receivable resulting in an increase to bad debt expenses. Laclede Gas is dependent on bank lines of credit and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. In addition to longer-term debt that is issued to the public by the Utility under its mortgage and deed of trust dated February 1, 1945, Laclede Gas has relied, and continues to rely, upon shorter term bank borrowings or commercial paper supported by bank lines of credit to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. The Utility is dependent on these capital sources to purchase its natural gas supply and maintain its properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Utility, or it may not be able to obtain funds at a reasonable cost in the future. Laclede Gas’ ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit depends on its compliance with the Utility’s obligations under the lines of cr edit. If the Utility were to breach any of the financial or other covenants under these agreements, its debt repayment obligations under them could be accelerated. Laclede Gas’ ability to issue commercial paper supported by its lines of credit, to issue long-term bonds, or to obtain new lines of credit also depends on current conditions in the credit markets. A downgrade in the Utility’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Standard & Poor’s rating group, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings from time to time implement new requirements for various ratings levels. To maintain its current credit ratings in light of any new requirements, Laclede Gas may find it necessary to take steps to change its business plans in ways that may affect its results of operations. The following table shows the current ratings assigned by S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch to certain of our outstanding debt: Type of Facility S&P Moody’s Fitch Laclede Gas First Mortgage Bonds A A2 A+ Laclede Gas Commercial Paper A-1 P-2 F1 If the rating agencies lowered the Utility’s ratings, particularly below investment grade, it could significantly limit its access to the commercial paper market and would increase its costs of short-term borrowing. In addition, Laclede Gas would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future long-term financings and the Utility’s potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Credit ratings are an independent assessment of the Utility’s ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated. Numerous environmental laws and regulations may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs. Laclede Gas is subject to federal and state environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations. These laws and regulations require Laclede Gas to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and approvals. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions could give rise to expenditures and liabilities including fines or penalties, which could be material. To the extent such costs are not fully covered by insurance or recovered in rates from Utility customers, those costs may have an adverse effect on the financial condition and results of operations of Laclede Gas. 14 Table of Contents Laclede Gas is subject to pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or significant increases in operating costs. Such laws and regulations affect various aspects of Laclede Gas’ present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utility to maintain pipeline safety and system integrity by identifying and reducing pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates. Failure to comply may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures that would not be recoverable from customers in rates and could result in a material adverse effect on Laclede Gas’ financial condition and results of operations. Transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. There are inherent in gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to Laclede Gas. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject the Utility to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against the Utili ty or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices, Laclede Gas maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Utility’s financial condition and results of operations. Increases in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utility’s competitive position compared with alternative energy sources. Laclede Gas is the only distributor of natural gas within its franchised service area. Nevertheless, rising wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utility’s retention of natural gas customers and adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions, the effects of global warming and climate change, and other factors that influence customer usage may affect the Utility’s sale of heating energy and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations. Laclede Gas’ earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Utility has a weather mitigation rate design, approved by the MoPSC, which provides better assurance of the recovery of the Utility’s fixed costs and margins during winter months despite variations in sales volumes due to the impacts of weather and other factors that affect customer usage. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utility’s service area and other factors, such as global warming and climate change, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales levels. Furthermore, continuation of the weather mitigation rate design is subject to regulatory discretion. In addition, the promulgation of regulations by the U.S. Environmental Protec tion Agency or the potential enactment of Congressional legislation addressing global warming and climate change may result in future additional compliance costs that could impact the Utility’s financial condition and results of operations. Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national pipeline infrastructure, as well as regulatory discretion, may adversely affect Laclede Gas’ ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release. Laclede Gas’ income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Utility holds pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Utility’s income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively-priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Income from off-system sales and capacity release is shared with customers. The Utility is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $6 million in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $6 million annually. The Utility’s ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding. 15 Table of Contents Workforce risks could affect Laclede Gas’ financial results. Laclede Gas is subject to various workforce risks, including, but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages. Catastrophic events could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ facilities and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados, terrorists acts, or other similar occurrences could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ facilities, operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The availability of insurance covering catastrophic events may be limited or may result in higher deductibles, higher premiums and more restrictive policy terms. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE NON-REGULATED GAS MARKETING SEGMENT Risks of increased competition, regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, and pipeline infrastructure projects may adversely impact LER’s future profitability. Competition in the marketplace and regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on LER’s business. Changing market conditions may adversely impact LER’s sales margins or affect LER’s ability to serve certain wholesale customers, thereby reducing wholesale sales profitability and/or increasing certain credit requirements caused by reductions in netting capability. Although the FERC regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas and establishes the general terms and conditions under which LER may use interstate gas pipeline capacity to purchase and transport natural gas, LER must occasionally renegotiate its transportation agreements with a concentrated group of pipeline companies. Renegotiated terms of new agreements may impact LER’s future profitabil ity. Profitability may also be adversely impacted if the pipeline capacity secured by LER is not fully utilized and/or its costs are not fully recovered. Risks of reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent LER from executing operating strategies. LER relies on its cash flows, netting capability, parental guarantees, and access to Laclede Group’s liquidity resources to satisfy its credit and working capital requirements. LER’s ability to rely on parental guarantees is dependent upon Laclede Group’s financial condition and credit ratings. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, counterparty acceptance of parental guarantees may diminish, resulting in decreased availability of credit. Additionally, under such circumstances, certain counterparties may require LER to provide prepayments or cash deposits, amounts of which would be dependent upon natural gas market conditions. Reduced access to credit or increased credit requirements, which may also be caused by factors such as higher overall natural gas prices, may limit LER’s ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, LER has concentrations of counterparty credit risk in that a significant portion of its transactions are with (or are associated with) energy producers, utility companies, and pipelines. These concentrations of counterparties have the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that each of these three groups may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry, or other conditions. LER also has concentrations of credit risk in certain individually significant counterparties. LER closely monitors its credit exposure and, although uncollectible amounts have not been significant, increased counterparty defaults are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations. 16 Table of Contents Risk management policies, including the use of derivative instruments, may not fully protect LER’s sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses. In the course of its business, LER enters into contracts to purchase and sell natural gas at fixed prices and index-based prices. Commodity price risk associated with these contracts has the potential to impact earnings and cash flows. To minimize this risk, LER has a risk management policy that provides for daily monitoring of a number of business measures, including fixed price commitments. LER manages the commodity price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of natural gas futures and swap contracts traded on or cleared through the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) to lock in margins. These exchange-traded/cleared contracts are generally desig nated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. Additionally, to the extent that LER’s natural gas commitments do not qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales designation (or the designation is not elected), the contracts are recorded as derivatives at fair value each period. Accordingly, the associated gains and losses are reported directly in earnings and may cause volatility in results of operations. LER’s ability to meet its customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies and interstate pipeline services are not available or delivered in a timely manner. LER’s ability to deliver natural gas to its customers is contingent upon the ability of natural gas producers, other gas marketers, and interstate pipelines to fulfill their delivery obligations to LER under firm contracts. If these counterparties fail to perform, they have a contractual obligation to reimburse LER for any adverse consequences. LER will attempt to use such reimbursements to obtain the necessary supplies so that LER may fulfill its customer obligations. To the extent that it is unable to obtain the necessary supplies, LER’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted. The energy industry is subject to regulatory and legislative developments. LER’s business is non-regulated in that the rates it charges its customers are not established by or subject to approval by any regulatory body. However, LER is subject to various laws and regulations affecting the energy industry. New regulatory and legislative actions may adversely impact LER’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by potentially reducing customer growth opportunities and/or increasing the costs of doing business. 17 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 