RISK FACTORS If we are unable to achieve broader penetration of the Given System among gastroenterologists, we may not be able to maintain our current growth rate. Our principal product is the Given System, consisting of a line of PillCam capsules and the related data recorder and computer workstation. As of December 31, 2005, we had sold over 2,860 systems worldwide. Growth in our installed base of Given Systems has contributed to our revenue growth. If we are unable to continue to achieve broad penetration among gastroenterologists, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. Our success in making or increasing sales of the Given System depends on a number of factors. First, we must demonstrate that the Given System is clinically-effective and cost-effective in diagnosing a range of disorders of the gastrointestinal tract, and we must inform and educate both physicians and the third-party payors responsible for providing reimbursement coverage about the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System. Second, we must broaden the indications for which the use of the Given System is reimbursed, expand the number of lives with such reimbursement coverage and educate healthcare providers as to the clinical and economic benefits of using the Given System for such broader indications so that they are encouraged to adopt the Given System. Third, we must continue to improve operational efficiencies of the Given System and demonstrate and convince gastroenterologists that the Given System fits within their normal practice routines. If we are unable to achieve the foregoing, future penetration of the Given System among gastroenterologists may not be sufficient to maintain our current growth rate. If we are unable to expand reimbursement coverage from third-party healthcare payors for procedures using the Given System, or if reimbursement is insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing or using the Given System when compared to alternative procedures, demand for the Given System may not grow at the rate we expect. Demand for the Given System depends significantly on the eligibility of the procedures performed using the Given System for reimbursement through government-sponsored healthcare payment systems and private third-party payors. In general, the process of obtaining reimbursement coverage approvals has been slower outside of the United States. Reimbursement practices vary significantly from country to country and within some countries, by region, and we must obtain reimbursement approvals on a country-by-country and region-by-region basis. Historically, we have experienced higher sales in territories in which we have received reimbursement for capsule endoscopy using the Given System and in territories in which health authorities and regulators approved the marketing or use of capsule endoscopy. We may not be able to obtain further approvals in a timely manner or at all. If physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers are unable to obtain suffici­ent coverage and reim­bursement from third-party payors for procedures using the Given System, or if reimbursement is, or is perceived by our customers to be, insufficient to cover the costs of purchasing or using our product or does not adequately compensate physicians and health care providers compared to the other procedures they offer, we may be unable to generate sufficient sales to continue to grow. -6- Our future growth depends in part on our ability to market the Given System and the PillCam SB capsule as a first line diagnostic tool for a variety of disorders of the small intestine. The Given System and the PillCam SB capsule have been cleared for marketing by the FDA for the detection of disorders of the small intestine. To date, sales of the Given System and of PillCam SB capsules have accounted for the significant majority of our revenues. Our ability to market and sell our line of PillCam capsules is highly dependent on the availability of third party reimbursement for the procedures performed with the Given System. Most reimbursement policies today cover the small bowel capsule endoscopy procedure only after a previous procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology has been performed. Our ability to expand the use of the PillCam SB capsule depends substantially on our ability to convince third party payors to provide reimbursement coverage for the PillCam SB capsule as a primary diagnostic tool and not only after a previous procedure, such as endoscopy or radiology, has been performed. If we are unable to do obtain such reimbursement coverage, sales of the PillCam SB capsule may not grow as we expect. Changes in healthcare system policies may make it difficult for physicians, hospitals and other healthcare providers to obtain adequate reimbursement for procedures using the Given System, which could adversely affect demand for the Given System. Many healthcare payors have adopted a managed care system in which they contract to provide compre­hen­sive health­care for a fixed cost per person, irrespective of the amount of care actually provided. Therefore, the amount of reimbursement provided may not be sufficient to encourage physicians to purchase or utilize the Given System. We are unable to predict what changes will be made in the reimbursement policies of third-party payors. Sales of the Given System could be adversely affected by changes in reim­burse­ment policies of govern­mental or private healthcare payors to the extent any such changes affect reimbursement amounts or methods for procedures in which the Given System is used. We currently depend on sales of the PillCam SB for a substantial majority of our revenues. If we are unable to manufacture, market or sell the PillCam SB capsules or to increase PillCam SB capsule usage rates among gastroenterologists, we may not be able to maintain our current annual growth rate. A substantial portion of our annual revenue growth to date has resulted from increased sales of the PillCam SB capsule. We expect that a substantial majority of our revenues for the foreseeable future will come from sales of the PillCam SB capsule and other PillCam capsules. Sales of the PillCam SB capsule contributed $22.9 million, or 56.4%, in 2003, $41.6 million, or 64%, in 2004 and $62.5 million, or 72% in 2005. We believe that the usage rate of our PillCam capsules is an important factor in growing our revenues. The usage rate outside the United States has historically been lower than in the United States. We are seeking to increase the usage rate by a number of methods, including increased selling and marketing activities, more frequent contact with our customers, attaining reimbursement coverage for broader indications and as a first line tool, generating supporting clinical evidence and educating physicians regarding the clinical benefits of the PillCam capsule, increasing operating efficiencies of our system to the benefit of physicians and collaborating with strategic industry participants. Increasing the usage rate of our customers is also important to attracting new customers to purchase and use the Given System. If we are unable to increase the usage rate of the Given System, we may not be able to achieve the revenues necessary to maintain our growth. -7- Our future growth also depends in part on the success of Ethicon Endo-Surgery in marketing our new PillCam ESO video capsule, particularly in the United States. In May 2004, we entered into an exclusive sales representation and co-promotion agreement with Ethicon Endo-Surgery, a Johnson & Johnson company. InScope, a division of Ethicon Endo-Surgery established to market products to the gastroenterology market, has exclusive rights to market our PillCam ESO capsule in the United States. In September 2004, we launched the PillCam ESO capsule in Europe and in November 2004 we received FDA clearance. Under the agreement, InScope is responsible for marketing the PillCam ESO capsule and, consequently, our future growth depends in part on the success of InScope in doing so. The results of our cooperation with InScope since signing the agreement have not met our expectations and we and InScope have taken a number of actions in an effort to improve sales of the PillCam ESO capsule, including the transfer to us of InScope’s initial responsibility to obtain a dedicated CPT code for the esophageal capsule endoscopy procedure. Sales of the PillCam ESO capsule in 2005 were lower than we expected and may continue to be lower than we expect if InScope is not successful in marketing the PillCam ESO capsule. This may negatively impact our revenue growth. We face direct competition from manufacturers of capsule endoscopy systems and may lose market share if we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace or utilize our patent portfolio. In October 2005, Olympus Corporation launched a competing capsule endoscopy system and began sales in Europe and Australia. Based on publicly available information, Olympus is also conducting clinical trials in the United States and intends to seek FDA clearance to market its capsule endoscopy system in the United States. In addition, in December 2003, Olympus submitted a request to the United States Patent and Trademark Office, or USPTO, to re-examine some of the claims of one of our patents. We submitted our response in August 2005 and are awaiting the decision of the USPTO. Finally, other companies in Korea and China began selling capsule endoscopy systems in these territories in 2005. If we are unable to compete effectively in the marketplace or utilize our patent portfolio against the Olympus capsule endoscopy system and other competing systems, we may lose market share or experience delays in completing sales as a result of longer decision making process among potential customers. We face competition from large, well-established manufacturers of existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders, as well as from gastrointestinal products in general which compete for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. To date, competition for the Given System has come primarily from existing technologies for detecting gastrointestinal disorders and diseases. Existing technologies include traditional endoscopy and radiological imaging. The principal manu­fac­turers of gastrointestinal endoscopes are Olympus, Asahi Optical Co., which manufactures and markets cameras and other imaging equipment under the Pentax brand, and Fujinon. The principal manufacturers of equipment for radiological imaging are General Electric Healthcare Systems, Siemens Medical Solutions, a division of Siemens AG, Philips Medical Systems Ltd., Toshiba Corporation and Shimadzu Corporation for x-ray equipment. These companies have substantially greater financial resources than we do, and they have established reputations as well as worldwide distribution channels for medical instruments to physicians. If we are unable to convince physicians to adopt the Given System over the current technologies marketed by our competitors, our results of operations will suffer. In addition to competition from products performing similar clinical functions to the Given System, there is also competition for the limited capital expenditure budgets of customers. Another capital equipment item for gastroenterology that is priced similarly to our system may compete with our system for the same hospital capital budget, which is typically limited, and therefore the potential purchaser may be required to choose between the two items of capital equipment. If we are unable to market the Given System more effectively than other products which could be purchased using the same budget as the Given System, we may be unable to maintain our current growth rate. Because of the importance of our patent portfolio to our business, we may lose market share to our competitors if we fail to protect our technology. Protection of our technology is key to our future success. We rely on patent protection, as well as a combination of copyright, trade secret, design and trademark laws, nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements and other contractual restric­tions to protect our proprietary technology. However, these legal means afford only limited protection and may not ade­quately protect our rights or permit us to gain or keep any competitive advantage. Currently, many of our patent applications are still pending and we will be able to use them to protect our technology against potential competitors only after they are -8- issued. The process of issuing a patent may sometimes be lengthy and may not always result in issued patents in a form that will be advantageous to us or at all. In addition, once issued, patents may be chal­lenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Our patents and applications cover particular aspects of our products and technology and may be chal­lenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. There may be other effective technologies, designs or methods. If other effective methods are not covered by our patents or applications and our competitors are able to commercialize products using these methods, it could have an adverse effect on our sales. We may not be able to prevent the unauthorized disclosure or use of our technical knowledge or other trade secrets by former employees. Laws protecting intellectual property provide protection in the jurisdiction they are enacted. The laws and judiciary systems of foreign countries also may not protect or enable enforcement of our intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Even if we adequately protect our intellectual property rights, litigation may be necessary to enforce these rights. This litigation could be lengthy, negatively affect our earnings, require a substantial diversion of management attention and allow our competitors to gain significant market position in the meantime. If we do not adequately protect our intellectual property, our competitors or other parties could use the intellectual property that we have developed to enhance their products or make products similar to ours and compete more efficiently with us, which could result in a decrease in our market share. Due to the rapid development and introduction of improvements and upgrades to the Given System, it may be difficult for many of our customers to utilize our latest technologies. We began marketing and selling the Given System in August 2001. Since then, we have introduced new products or significant improvements to existing components of the Given System every year. Newer products or system components may not be able to support and work with older product versions. For example, our PillCam ESO capsule only works with RAPID 3.0 or newer versions of the RAPID software. In order for as many of our customers as possible to utilize our most advanced capsule endoscopy technology, we need to manage new product introductions and installations efficiently, addressing concerns of customers regarding product upgrade costs, time constraints and training and education in light of possible short product cycles. If we are unable to cause our customers to use the most advanced technology available or effectively address compatibility issues between older and newer products, we may harm our competitive position and our sales may be negatively affected. We may be unable to introduce other products for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Our objective is to expand the use of the Given System as a platform to be used with a variety of products and indications. We intend to add to our current PillCam capsules by developing and introducing new capsules for visualizing other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, including the stomach and the colon. There can be no assurance of widespread market acceptance of the Given System as superior to existing technologies for detection of abnormalities in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or that we will succeed in marketing and selling capsules for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract. In addition, we will be required to obtain FDA clearance in the United States and other regulatory approvals outside of the United States before commercially distributing the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or introducing new products for use in the gastrointestinal tract. These regulatory processes can be lengthy and expensive and we cannot be sure that FDA clearance or other regulatory approvals will be granted. In order to obtain FDA clearance and other regulatory approvals, and to obtain reimbursement coverage for use of the Given System in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract, we will be required to conduct additional clinical trials to demonstrate the diagnostic and cost-effectiveness of the Given System. If future clinical trials indicate that the Given System is not as clinically-effective or cost-effective in these parts of the gastrointestinal tract as current methods, or that it causes unexpected complications or other unforeseen negative effects, we may not obtain regulatory clearance to market and sell the Given System for use in other parts of the gastrointestinal tract or obtain reimbursement coverage, and our growth would be adversely affected. Any disruption in the United States, our primary market for our products, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our results of operations. Since we began selling the Given System in 2001, most of our revenues have been generated from sales in the United States. Sales in the United States accounted for $26.2 million, or 65%, of our revenues in 2003, $46.7 million, or 72%, of our revenues in 2004 and $63.9 million, or 74%, of our revenues in 2005. Any disruption to our market in the United States resulting from changes in management of our U.S. subsidiary, adverse changes in reimbursement policies, regulatory requirements, macro-economic changes and other events, many of which are outside our control, may result in a material reduction in our revenues and negatively affect our results of operations. -9- We may be unable to maintain or increase our profitability. We were formed in 1998 and recorded our initial sales of the Given System in the third quarter of 2001. We achieved positive cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2003 and initially became profitable in the second quarter of 2004; however, we have significant operating expenses and must continue increasing our gross profit from sales of the Given System and of the PillCam capsules at a higher rate than the increase in our expenses in order to maintain and grow our profits. If we fail to do so, we may be unable to maintain or increase our profitability. Because the medical device industry is litigious, we are susceptible to intellectual property suits that could cause us to incur substantial costs or pay substantial damages or prohibit us from selling our products. There is a substantial amount of litigation over patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device industry. Whether a product infringes a patent involves complex legal and factual issues, the determination of which is often uncertain. While we have attempted to ensure that the Given System does not infringe other parties’ valid patents and proprietary rights, searches typically performed to identify potentially infringed patents of third parties are not always conclusive and, because patent applications can take many years to issue, there may be applications now pending of which we are unaware, which may later result in issued patents which our current or future products may infringe. In addition, our competitors or other parties may assert that our product and the methods it employs may be covered by patents held by them. If our products infringe a valid patent, we could be prevented from selling them unless we can obtain a license or redesign the product to avoid infringement. A license may not always be available or may require us to pay substantial royalties. We also may not be successful in any attempt to redesign our product to avoid any infringement. Infringement and other intellectual property claims, with or without merit, can be expensive and time-consuming to litigate and can divert management’s attention from operating our business. We may be required to increase manufacturing quantities of the Given System and could encounter manufacturing problems or delays that could result in lost revenue. We are currently using two semi-automatic production lines to manufacture PillCam SB capsules and one semi-automated production line to manufacture PillCam ESO capsules. These production lines are installed at our manufacturing facilities in Yoqneam, Israel. Each semi-automatic production line has the capacity to manufacture approximately 270,000 PillCam capsules per year. We have installed one back-up semi-automatic production line at the facilities of Pemstar, Inc. in Ireland for the PillCam SB capsule and have purchased and plan to install a second back-up line for the PillCam ESO capsule. We may be unable to establish or maintain reliable, high-volume manufacturing capacity and may encounter difficulties in scaling up production of the Given System, whether by installing one or more fully-automated production lines, or otherwise. If demand for the Given System exceeds our manufacturing capacity, we could develop a substantial backlog of customer orders and our ability to generate additional revenues will be limited and our reputation in the marketplace may be harmed. We are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA which could restrict the sale and marketing of the Given System and could cause us to incur significant costs. We received the initial clearance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, to market the Given System in the U.S. in August 2001. FDA regulations may require us to submit for clearance improvements and modifications of the Given System, including new PillCam capsules, before we are allowed to market them in the United States. FDA regulations also prohibit us from promot­ing or advertising the Given System, or any other devices that the FDA may clear in the future, for uses not within the scope of our clearances or making unsupported safety and effectiveness claims. Currently, the Given System has been cleared by the FDA for the detection of abnormalities of the small intestine and the esophagus. These determinations can be subjective, and the FDA may disagree with our promotional claims. Noncompliance with applicable regulatory requirements can result in enforcement action which may include recalling products, ceasing product marketing, paying significant fines and penalties, and similar FDA actions which could limit product sales or delay or halt product shipment. Additionally, if we are unable to receive FDA clearance for new or improved products, the marketing and sale of these products will be delayed or cancelled, which in turn may materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Unanticipated changes in existing regulatory requirements or adoption of new requirements could also materially adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We are required to adhere to the FDA’s Medical Device Reporting regulation, which requires that manufacturers report to the FDA if their device may have caused or contributed to a death or serious injury or malfunctioned in a way that -10- would likely cause or contribute to a death or serious injury if it were to recur. The FDA also requires us to adhere to the Quality System Regulation, which covers the methods and documentation of the design, testing, production, control, quality assurance, labeling, packaging and shipping of the Given System. The FDA enforces the Quality System Regulation through inspections. Our quality system has passed several audits, including a re-certification audit, pursuant to the Medical Devices Directive of the European Union, the International Standard Organization’s standard ISO 9001:2000, ISO 13485:1996 and ISO 13485:2003, which are quality standards setting forth requirements for medical device manufacturers that are more specific than the general requirements specified in ISO 9001. While these quality standards contain requirements which are generally similar to the Quality System Regulation required by the FDA, we have never been through a Quality System Regulation inspec­tion by the FDA and cannot assure you that we would pass. If we fail a Quality System Regulation inspection, our operations could be disrupted and our manufacturing delayed. Failure to take adequate corrective action in response to a Quality System Regulation inspection could force a shutdown of our manufacturing operations and a recall of the Given System, which would have a material adverse effect on our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. If we or our distributors do not obtain and maintain the necessary regulatory approvals in a specific country or region, we will not be able to market and sell the Given System in that country or region. In addition to the United States, Germany, France, Australia and Israel, where we market and sell the Given System directly with our own direct sales and marketing organizations, we sell the Given System in over 50 other countries. To be able to market and sell the Given System in a specific country or region, we or our distributors must comply with the regulations of that country or region. While the regulations of some countries do not impose barriers to marketing and selling the Given System or only require notification, others require that we or our distributors obtain the approval of a specified regulatory body. These regulations, including the requirements for approvals, and the time required for regulatory review vary from country to country. Obtaining regulatory approvals is expensive and time-consuming, and we cannot be certain that we or our distributors will receive regulatory approvals in each country or region in which we plan to market our products. If we modify the Given System, we or our distributors may need to apply for new regulatory approvals before we are permitted to sell it. We may not continue to meet the quality and safety standards required to maintain the authorizations that we or our distributors have received. If we or our distributors are unable to maintain our authorizations in a particular country or region, we will no longer be able to sell our products in that country or region, and our ability to generate revenues will be materially adversely affected. Our failure to comply with radio frequency regulations in a specific country or region could impair our ability to commercially distribute and market the Given System in that country or region. The Given System includes a wireless radio frequency transmitter and receiver, and is therefore subject to equipment authori­zation requirements in a number of countries and regions. In the United States, Europe and Japan, authorities require advance clearance of all radio frequency devices before they can be sold or marketed in these jurisdictions. We currently have clearance in the United States and Europe based on the current system design and specifications and expect to be in compliance with the Japanese regulations by the middle of 2006. Modifications to the Given System may require new or further regulatory approvals before we are permitted to market and sell a modified system, and it could take several months to obtain any necessary approvals. If we are unable to maintain our current approvals or obtain any additional required approvals from the authorities responsible for the radio frequency regulations in these and other jurisdictions where we sell the Given System, an enforcement action could be brought to prevent the sale or use of the Given System in these countries. Any such action could negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. Certain federal and state laws, including but not limited to the federal anti-kickback statute, prohibit, among other things, the offer, payment, solicitation or receipt of any form of remuneration in return for the referral of healthcare items or services reimbursable by a federal or state health care program such as Medicare or Medicaid. While the federal anti-kickback statute applies only to products or services for which payment may be made in whole or in part by a federal or state health care program, state laws often also apply to private third party payors such as commercial insurance plans. Other federal and state laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly present­ing, or causing to be presented, claims for payment to Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraud­ulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. -11- These laws may apply to the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices, such as us, and may limit the kinds of financial arrangements we may have with hospitals, physicians, and other potential purchasers of medical devices. The anti-kickback statute, similar federal and state laws, and false claims laws prescribe substantial civil and criminal penalties for noncompliance. While we believe that we are in compliance with these laws, even an unsuccessful government action under one of these legal authorities could cause adverse publicity and be costly to respond to, and thus could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We have experienced rapid growth and our failure to manage this growth could harm our business. Our revenues have grown rapidly and we face significant challenges and risks in building and managing our sales and marketing team, including managing geographically dispersed sales efforts and hiring and adequately training our sales people in the use and benefits of the Given System. To succeed in the implementation of our business strategy and maintain our growth, our management team must diligently plan and rapidly execute our sales and marketing strategy, while continuing our research and development, regulatory, clinical and manufacturing activities, as well as manage our continued growth by implementing effective long term planning. If we are unable to effectively plan, manage and execute these efforts, our business may be harmed. We rely on local distributors to market and distribute the Given System in most of the territories in which we sell it. With the exception of Australia, France, Germany, Israel and the United States, we rely on distributors for the marketing and distribution of the Given System. Under most of our agreements with local distributors, a distributor is granted the right to market the Given System for an initial period of approximately three years in a particular country or region, subject to the attainment of minimum sales targets. The distributor is required to prepare and submit to us for our approval a sales plan for the Given System and to obtain the requisite regulatory and reimbursement approvals for the Given System. Our success in generating sales in countries or regions where we have engaged local distributors depends in part on the efforts of others whom we do not control. In 2005, we derived $12.9 million, or 15%, of our revenues from sales to local distributors, compared to $9.8 million, or 15%, from sales to local distributors in 2004. To date, we have changed a number of our distributors due to a failure to meet minimum sales targets. If a distributor is terminated by us or goes out of business, it may take us a period of time to locate an alternative distributor and to train its personnel to market the Given System and our ability to sell the Given System in that distributor’s country or region could be adversely affected. Our reliance on single source suppliers could harm our ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. We depend on single source suppliers for some of the components necessary for the production of the Given System. Specifically, Micron Technology, Inc., through its Micron Imaging Group and other wholly-owned subsidiaries, is currently the sole supplier of the imaging sensor and the packaging for the sensor, and Zarlink Semiconductors is currently the sole supplier of the transmitter that is inte­grated into the PillCam capsules. If the supply of these components is disrupted or terminated, or if these suppliers are unable to supply the quantities of components that we require, we may not be able to find alternative sources for these key compon­ents. Although we maintain a strategic inventory of key components, the inventory many not be sufficient to satisfy the demand for our products if supply is interrupted, and is subject to risk of loss due to catastrophic events such as fire at a storage facility. As a result, we may be unable to meet demand for our products, which could harm our ability to generate revenues, lead to customer dissatisfaction and damage our reputation. If we are required to change the manufacturer of any of these key compon­ents of the Given System, there may be a significant delay in locating a suitable alternative manufacturer. Addition­ally, we may be required to verify that the new manufacturer maintains facilities and procedures that comply with FDA and other applicable quality standards and with all applicable regulations and guidelines. The delays associated with the verifica­tion of a new manufacturer could delay our ability to manufacture our product in a timely manner or within budget. Further­more, in the event that the manufacturer of a key component of our product ceases operations or otherwise ceases to do busi­ness with us, we may not have access to the information necessary to enable another supplier to manufacture the component. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our ability to meet demand for the Given System in a timely manner or within budget. -12- Conditions in Israel affect our operations and may limit our ability to produce and sell our product which could decrease our revenues. Our corporate offices, our manufacturing facilities (other than our backup production lines in Ireland), and our research and develop­ment facilities are located in Israel. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel directly affect our operations. Since the establishment of the State of Israel in 1948, a number of armed conflicts have taken place between Israel and its Arab neighbors and a state of hostility, varying in degree and intensity, has led to security and economic problems for Israel. Any escalation in these hostilities or any future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region, could have a negative effect on our business condition, harm our results of operations and adversely affect the share price of publicly traded Israeli companies such as us. If we lose our key personnel or are unable to attract and retain additional personnel, our business and ability to compete will be harmed. We are dependent on the principal members of our management and scientific staff. In order to implement our business strategy, we will need to keep our key personnel with expertise in research and development, clinical testing, government regulation, manufacturing, sales, marketing and finance. Our product development plans depend in part on our ability to retain engineers with expertise in a variety of technical fields. The loss of a number of these persons or our inability to attract and retain qualified personnel could harm our business and our ability to compete. Our operations could be disrupted as a result of the obligation of key personnel in Israel to perform military service. Generally, all male adult citizens and permanent residents of Israel are, unless exempt, obligated to take part in military reserve duty annually. Many of our male employees are currently obligated to perform annual reserve duty, as are two of our executive officers. Additionally, all Israeli residents who perform reserve duty are subject to being called to active duty at any time under emergency circumstances. Our operations could be disrupted by the absence for a significant period of one or more of our officers or employees due to military service. Any such disruption to our operations could adversely affect the develop­ment of our business and our financial condition. Our international operations will expose us to the risk of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. In 2005, we derived 77% of our revenues in U.S. dollars and 19% in Euro, with the remainder denominated in other currencies. The currency denomination of our revenues depends on the location of the customer or the distributor used to fulfill our customers’ orders. Conversely, in 2005, in addition to our U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated liabilities, 26% of our expenses were denominated in New Israeli Shekels, or Shekels. Our Shekel-denominated liabilities consist principally of salaries and related personnel expenses. We anticipate that for the foreseeable future a material portion of our liabilities will continue to be denominated in shekels. If the value of a currency in which our receivables are denominated devalues against the value of a currency in which our liabilities are denominated, there will be a negative impact on our operating margin, as well as on our net income. Our revenues and expenses may not always be fully hedged against our currency exposure through financial instruments. In addition, if we wish to maintain the dollar-denominated value of our product in non-U.S. markets, devaluation in the local currencies of our customers relative to the U.S. dollar could cause our customers to cancel or decrease orders or default on payment. In addition, as of December 31, 2005, 11% of our cash and cash equivalents were denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar and we are therefore subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations between the Yen, the Shekel, the Australian dollar and the Euro. The use of the Given System, including ingestion of the PillCam capsules, could result in product liability claims that could be expensive, damage our reputation and harm our business. Our business exposes us to an inherent risk of potential product liability claims related to the manufacturing, market­ing and sale of medical devices. The medical device industry has historically been litigious, and we face financial exposure to product liability claims if the use of our product were to cause or contribute to injury or death, whether by aggra­vating existing patient symptoms or otherwise. There is also the possibility that defects in the design or manufacture of the Given System might necessitate a product recall. Although we maintain product liability insurance for the Given System, the coverage limits of these policies may not be adequate to cover future claims. Particularly as sales of the Given System increase, we may be unable to maintain product liability insurance on acceptable terms or at reasonable costs and such insur­ance may not provide us with adequate coverage against potential liabilities. A successful claim brought against us in excess of, or outside of, our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of -13- operations. A product liabil­ity claim, regardless of merit or ultimate outcome, or any product recall could result in substantial costs to us and a substantial diversion of manage­ment attention. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly as a result of a number of factors, including varying quarterly financial performance or our failure to meet our guidance or the expectations of analysts or investors, which may lead to additional volatility in our share price. Our ordinary shares commenced trading on the Nasdaq National Market in October 2001 and on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange in March 2004. In 2005, the closing price of our shares has ranged from $20.39 to $36.04 per share on the Nasdaq National Market and NIS 95.79 to NIS155.3 on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. The price of our shares could fluctuate significantly for, among other things, the following reasons: future announcements concerning us or our competitors, the existence of litigation concerning our intellectual property assets, changes in third-party reimbursement practices, regulatory developments, and new clinical or economic data regarding our current or future products. In addition, it is our practice to provide guidance to the market as to our expected revenues and earnings per share based on information available to us at the time of the guidance. If our quarterly operating results do not meet our guidance or the expectations of securities analysts or investors, the price of our shares would likely decline. In addition, based on our experience to date, we believe that many of our customers delay purchasing systems until the end of the fiscal quarter because they believe this will enable them to negotiate more favorable terms. Therefore, revenues from system sales may be concentrated at the end of each fiscal quarter making it difficult for us to determine the success of each quarter until its end and resulting in lower than expected quarterly revenues if external or other events cause a large number of potential customers to defer their purchasing decisions even for a short period of time. Furthermore, we believe that demand for systems and capsules may be materially affected by seasonal factors during the summer months when physicians and administrators are more likely to postpone purchasing decisions relating to systems due to summer vacations and patients are more likely to postpone less urgent diagnostic procedures until later in the year. Both of these factors may result in slower sales during the summer. Share price fluctuations may be exaggerated by low trading volume of our ordinary shares and changes in trading practices in our ordinary shares, such as short buying and selling. Securities class action litigation has often been brought against companies following periods of volatility. Any securities litigation claims brought against us could result in substantial expense and divert management’s attention from our business. The two largest beneficial owners of our shares, IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., which is controlled by four individuals, and certain funds affiliated with OrbiMed Advisors, Inc., which we refer to as the OrbiMed investors and which are controlled by Samuel D. Isaly, have significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval, which could, among other things, delay or prevent a change of control. The largest beneficial owners of our shares, four individuals in Israel through IDB Holding Corporation Ltd., beneficially own 36.5% of our ordinary shares, and the principal of the OrbiMed investors beneficially owns 13.0% of our ordinary shares. As a result, these share­holders, if they were to act together, could exercise a controlling influence over our operations and business strategy and have sufficient voting power to control the outcome of matters requiring shareholder approval. These matters may include: • the composition of our board of directors which has the authority to direct our business and to appoint and remove our officers; • approving or rejecting a merger, consolidation or other business combination; • raising future capital; and • amending our articles of association which govern the rights attached to our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership of our ordinary shares could delay or prevent proxy contests, mergers, tender offers, open-market purchase programs or other purchases of our ordinary shares that might otherwise give our other shareholders the oppor­tunity to realize a premium over the then-prevailing market price of our ordinary shares. This concentration of ownership may also adversely affect our share price. -14- Future sales of our ordinary shares in the public market and low trading volume could adversely affect our share price. As of December 31, 2005, we had 27.9 million ordinary shares outstanding. Approximately 50% of these shares are “restricted securities” available for resale on the Nasdaq National Market subject, however, to volume limitations under Rule 144. In addition, all of our ordinary shares are available for resale on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange, subject to compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933. Future sales of these restricted shares, or the perception that these sales could occur, could adversely affect the market price of our ordinary shares. We have periodically experienced a low trading volume of our ordinary shares, and if one or a small number of parties buys or sells a large number of our ordinary shares, we may experience volatility in our share price and our share price may be adversely affected. In addition, the holders of approximately 13 million ordinary shares are entitled to request that we register their ordinary shares under the Securities Act of 1933 and have the right to request that we include their shares in any registration statement that we file, in each case, subject to exclusion for marketing reasons. These registration rights expire on October 10, 2006. Registration of these shares would result in them becoming freely tradable without restriction immediately upon the effectiveness of such registration, except for shares purchased by affiliates, which may be sold subject to the volume limitations of Rule 144. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to raise additional funds through future offerings of our ordinary shares or other securities. Our ordinary shares are traded on more than one market and this may result in price variations. Our ordinary shares are traded on the Nasdaq National Market and the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange. Trading in our ordinary shares on these markets is made in different currencies (dollars on the Nasdaq National Market, and Israeli shekels on the Tel Aviv Stock Exchange) and at different times (due to different time zones, trading days and public holidays in the United States and Israel). The trading prices of our ordinary shares on these two markets may differ due to these and other factors. Any decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on one of these markets could cause a decrease in the trading price of our ordinary shares on the other market. If we are characterized as a passive foreign investment company, our U.S. shareholders may suffer adverse tax consequences. If, for any taxable year, our passive income, or our assets which produce passive income, exceed specified levels, we may be characterized as a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This characterization could result in adverse U.S. tax consequences for our U.S. shareholders, which may include having gains realized on the sale of our ordinary shares treated as ordinary income, rather than as capital gains income, having potentially punitive interest charges apply to those gains, and the denial of the taxation of certain dividends paid by us at the lower rates applicable to long-term capital gains. We believe we were not a PFIC for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005. However, the tests for determining PFIC status are applied annually and are based in part on reference to the market value of our shares and valuing our intangible assets using the methods prescribed for publicly traded corporations, and it is difficult to make accurate predictions of future income and assets, which are relevant to this decision. Accordingly, we cannot give any assurance that we will not become a PFIC, in particular, since the value of our shares is likely to fluctuate. For a more detailed discussion of the consequences of our being classified as a PFIC, see “Taxation and Government Programs—United States Federal Income Taxation—Passive Foreign Investment Company Considerations.” U.S. shareholders are urged to consult with their own U.S. tax advisors with respect to the U.S. tax consequences of investing in our ordinary shares. The government grants we have received for research and development expenditures limit our ability to manu­facture products and transfer technologies outside of Israel and require us to satisfy specified conditions. If we fail to satisfy these conditions, we may be required to refund grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. From 1998 through 2005, we received grants totaling $4.9 million from the government of Israel through the Office of the Chief Scientist of the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the financing of a portion of our research and development expendi­tures in Israel. The terms of the Chief Scientist grants prohibit us from manufacturing products developed using these grants outside of Israel without special approvals and completely prohibit the transferring of our technologies and related intellectual property rights outside of Israel. Even if we receive approval to manufacture the Given System outside of Israel, we would be required to pay an increased total amount of royalties, which may be up to 300% of the grant amount plus interest, depending on the manufacturing volume that is performed outside of Israel, as well as a possible increased rate or royalties. This restriction may impair our ability to outsource manufacturing, engage in change in control transactions or -15- otherwise transferring our technology outside Israel. We currently hold an approval from the Office of the Chief Scientist to manufacture limited quantities of the PillCam SB capsule in Pemstar’s facilities in Ireland without an increase in royalty rates and we will be required to obtain an approval before manufacturing the PillCam ESO capsule outside of Israel. In addition, if we fail to comply with any of the conditions imposed by the Office of the Chief Scientist, we may be required to refund any grants previously received together with interest and penalties, and may be subject to criminal charges. In recent years, the government of Israel has accelerated the rate of repayment of Chief Scientist grants and may further accelerate them in the future. We receive significant tax benefits that may be reduced or eliminated in the future. Our investment program in leasehold improvements and equipment at our manufacturing facility in Yoqneam, Israel has been granted “approved enterprise” status and we are therefore eligible for significant tax benefits under the Israeli Law for Encouragement of Capital Investments. From time to time, the government of Israel has considered reducing or eliminating the tax benefits available to approved enterprise programs such as ours. These tax benefits may not be continued in the future at their current levels or at all. If these tax benefits were reduced or eliminated, the amount of taxes that we pay would likely increase. In addition, our approved enterprise status imposes certain requirements on us, such as the location of our manufacturing facility, location of certain subcontractors and the extent to which we may outsource portions of our production process. If we do not meet these requirements, the law permits the authorities to cancel the tax benefits retroactively. See Item 10 “Additional Information—Taxation.” It may be difficult to enforce a U.S. judgment against us, our officers and directors or to assert U.S. securities laws claims in Israel or serve process on our officers and directors. We are incorporated in Israel. The majority of our executive officers and directors are not residents of the United States, and the majority of our assets and the assets of these persons are located outside the United States. Therefore, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to enforce a U.S. court judgment based upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws in an Israeli court against us or any of these persons or to effect service of process upon these persons in the United States. Additionally, it may be difficult for an investor, or any other person or entity, to assert U.S. securities law claims in original actions instituted in Israel. Israeli courts may refuse to hear a claim based on a violation of U.S. securities laws because Israel is not the most appropriate forum to bring such a claim. In addition, even if an Israeli court agrees to hear a claim, it may determine that Israeli law and not U.S. law is applicable to the claim. If U.S. law is found to be applicable, the content of applicable U.S. law must be proved as a fact which can be a time-consuming and costly process. Certain matters of procedure will also be governed by Israeli law. There is little binding case law in Israel addressing the matters described above. Under current Israeli law, we may not be able to enforce covenants not to compete and therefore may be unable to prevent competitors from benefiting from the expertise of some of our former employees involved in research and development activities. We currently have non-competition agreements with substantially all of our employees who are involved in research and development, nearly all of whom are located in Israel. These agreements prohibit our employees, if they cease working for us, from directly competing with us or working for our competitors for a limited period of time following termination of employment. Israeli courts have required employers seeking to enforce non-compete undertakings of a former employee to demonstrate that the competitive activities of the former employee will harm one of a limited number of material interests of the employer which have been recognized by the courts, such as the secrecy of a company’s confidential commercial information or its intellectual property. If we cannot demonstrate that harm would be caused to us, we may be unable to prevent our competitors from benefiting from the expertise of our former employees. -16- ITEM 