Item 1A. Risk Factors Laclede Group’s business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company considers to be the most material. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF LACLEDE GROUP AND ITS SUBSIDIARIES As a holding company, Laclede Group depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations. Laclede Group is a holding company with no significant assets other than cash investments and the stock of its operating subsidiaries. Laclede Group, and Laclede Gas prior to Laclede Group’s formation, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. However, Laclede Group relies exclusively on dividends from its subsidiaries, on intercompany loans from its non-regulated subsidiaries, and on the repayments of principal and interest from intercompany loans made to its subsidiaries for its cash flows. Laclede Group’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments to Laclede Group. Laclede Group’s cash flows for fiscal year 2008 included proceeds from the sale of its wholly-owned subsidiary, SM&P. A downgrade in Laclede Group’s credit ratings could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Currently, Laclede Group’s corporate ratings are A by Standard & Poor’s and A- by Fitch. Laclede Group has working capital lines of credit to meet the short-term liquidity needs of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit rating, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit its ability to borrow and would increase its costs of borrowing. Laclede Group’s ability to borrow and costs of borrowing have a direct impact on its subsidiaries’ ability to execute operating strategies. Risk of unexpected losses may adversely affect Laclede Group’s financial position and results of operations. As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Laclede Group’s subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Laclede Group becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion of, but not all, risks and losses. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance, that loss could adversely affect the Company’s financial position and results of operations. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE REGULATED GAS DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT Risks related to the regulation of the Utility business could impact rates it is able to charge, costs, and profitability. The Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC or Commission) regulates many aspects of the Utility’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that the Utility may charge customers, the terms of service to its customers, and the rate of return that it is allowed to realize; as well as the accounting treatment for certain aspects of its operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Critical Accounting Policies pertaining to Laclede Gas, beginning on page 28. Laclede Gas’ ability to obtain rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue earning the current authorized rates of return. In addition, the FERC regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas from the wellhead to the Utility’s city gate and establishes the terms and conditions under which it may use interstate gas pipeline and storage capacity to purchase, store, and transport natural gas. 11 Table of Contents Laclede Gas’ liquidity and, in certain circumstances, its results of operations could be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly. Laclede Gas’ tariff rate schedules contain Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) Clauses that permit the Utility to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources. Currently, Laclede Gas is allowed to adjust the gas cost component of its rates up to four times each year. The Utility must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment at the beginning of the winter, in November, and during the next twelve months it may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months. The MoPSC typically approves the Utility’s PGA changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. Increases in the prices the Utility charges for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause some customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. Laclede Gas has used short-term borrowings in the past to finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and expects to do so in the future. Laclede Gas may be adversely affected by economic conditions. Periods of slowed economic activity, such as that currently being experienced, generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in its service territory may also adversely impact the Utility’s ability to collect its accounts receivable resulting in an increase to bad debt expenses. Hedging procedures may not fully protect Laclede Gas sales and results of operations from volatility, and the use of derivative contracts in the normal course of business could result in financial losses. To lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, Laclede Gas enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, the Utility may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, futures, and option contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange. However, the Utility does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains, or losses experienced through hedging procedures, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA Clause, thereby limiting the Utility’s exposure to earnings volatility. However, variations in the timing of collections of such gas costs under the PGA Clause and the effect of cash payments for margin deposits associated with the Utility’s use of natural gas derivative instruments may cause short-term cash requirements to vary. These procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC. Laclede Gas is dependent on bank lines of credit and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies. In addition to longer term debt that is issued to the public by the Utility under its mortgage and deed of trust dated February 1, 1945, Laclede Gas has relied, and continues to rely, upon shorter term bank borrowings or commercial paper supported by bank lines of credit to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. The Utility is dependent on these capital sources to purchase its natural gas supply and maintain its properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Utility, or it may not be able to obtain funds at a reasonable cost in the future. Laclede Gas’ ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit depends on its compliance with the Utility’s obligations under the lines of credit. Laclede Gas’ ability to issue commercial paper supported by its lines of credit, to issue long-term bonds, or to obtain new lines of credit also depends on current conditions in the credit markets. 12 Table of Contents A downgrade in the Utility’s credit rating could negatively affect its ability to access capital. Standard & Poor’s rating group, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings from time to time implement new requirements for various ratings levels. To maintain its current credit ratings in light of any new requirements, Laclede Gas may find it necessary to take steps to change its business plans in ways that may affect its results of operations. The following table shows the current ratings assigned by S&P, Moody’s, and Fitch to certain of our outstanding debt: Type of Facility S&P Moody’s Fitch Laclede Gas First Mortgage Bonds A A2 A+ Laclede Gas Commercial Paper A-1 P-2 F1 If the rating agencies lowered the Utility’s ratings, particularly below investment grade, it could significantly limit its access to the commercial paper market and would increase its costs of borrowing. In addition, Laclede Gas would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future financings and the Utility’s potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. Credit ratings are an independent assessment of the Utility’s ability to pay its obligations. Consequently, real or anticipated changes in credit ratings will generally affect the market value of the specific debt instruments that are rated. Transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. There are inherent in gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, and mechanical problems, that could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to Laclede Gas. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. These activities may subject the Utility to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against the Utility or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices, Laclede Gas maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Utility’s financial position and results of operations. Increases in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utility’s competitive position compared with alternative energy sources. Laclede Gas is the only distributor of natural gas within its franchised service area. Nevertheless, rising wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utility’s retention of natural gas customers and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations. Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions, the effects of global warming and climate change, and other factors that influence customer usage may affect the Utility’s sale of heating energy and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations. Laclede Gas’ earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Utility has a weather mitigation rate design, approved by the MoPSC, that provides better assurance of the recovery of the Utility’s fixed costs and margins during winter months despite variations in sales volumes due to the impacts of weather and other factors that affect customer usage. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utility’s service area and other factors, such as global warming and climate change, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales levels. Furthermore, continuation of the weather mitigation rate design is subject to regulatory discretion. In addition, the promulgation of regulations by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the potential enactment of Congressional legislation addressing global warming and climate change may result in future additional compliance costs that could impact the Utility’s financial position and results of operations. 13 Table of Contents Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national pipeline infrastructure, as well as regulatory discretion, may adversely affect Laclede Gas’ ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release. Laclede Gas’ income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Utility holds pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Utility’s income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively-priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Income from off-system sales and capacity release is shared with customers. Effective October 1, 2007, the Utility is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $6 million in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $6 million annually. The Utility’s ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding. Workforce risks could affect Laclede Gas’ financial results. Laclede Gas is subject to various workforce risks, including, but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages. Catastrophic events could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ facilities and operations. Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados, terrorists acts, or other similar occurrences could adversely affect Laclede Gas’ facilities, operations, financial condition, and results of operations. RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE NON-REGULATED GAS MARKETING SEGMENT Risks of increased competition, regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, and new national pipeline infrastructure projects may adversely impact LER’s future profitability. Competition in the marketplace and regional fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on LER’s business. Changing market conditions caused by new pipeline infrastructure may adversely impact LER’s sales margins or affect LER’s ability to serve certain wholesale customers, thereby reducing wholesale sales profitability and/or increasing certain credit requirements caused by reductions in netting capability. Although the FERC regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas and establishes the general terms and conditions under which LER may use interstate gas pipeline capacity to purchase and transport natural gas, LER must occasionally re-negotiate its transportation agreements with a concentrated group of pipeline companies. Re-negotiated terms of new agreements may impact LER’s future profitability. Risks of reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent LER from executing operating strategies. LER relies on its cash flows, parental guarantees, and netting capability to satisfy its credit and working capital requirements. Reduced access to credit or increased credit requirements may limit LER’s ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, LER has concentrations of counterparty credit risk in that a significant portion of its transactions are with (or are associated with) energy producers, utility companies, and pipelines. These concentrations of counterparties have the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that each of these three groups may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry, or other conditions. LER closely monitors its credit exposure and, although uncollectible amounts have not been significant, increased counterparty defaults are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations. Risk management policies, including the use of derivative instruments, may not fully protect LER’s sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses. LER manages the price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of exchange-traded futures contracts to lock in margins. These exchange-traded futures contracts are generally designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. Additionally, to the extent that LER’s natural gas commitments do not qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales designation (or the designation is not elected), the contracts are recorded as derivatives at fair value each period. Accordingly, the associated gains and losses are reported directly in earnings and may cause volatility in reported results of operations. 14 Table of Contents Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. Item 