RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We face increasing competition in the Norwegian telecommunications market which may result in further reductions in tariffs and loss of market share and could affect our future revenues and profitability. We are experiencing competition from competing service providers in the Norwegian market for telecommunications services. Generally, the Norwegian regulatory regime poses few barriers to entry for new competitors. In fixed network services, a number of regulatory measures have been introduced that have strengthened and may strengthen the position of our competitors. Pursuant to regulatory requirements, we introduced carrier pre-selection for our customers in November 2000, enabling them to select alternative service providers. In April 2000, we began offering interconnection services for our local access network, or local loop, at cost-oriented prices. Competitors may also use alternative technologies, such as cable or wireless local loop connections, to provide telecommunications services, and in March 2000 the Norwegian regulator awarded licenses to our competitors to provide wireless access services. From 2003 onwards, we have offered wholesale line rental (PSTN and ISDN) to other operators, enabling the operators of telephony traffic to deliver fixed telephony subscription to their customers using our fixed network. Such unbundled telephony access also means that subscriptions and traffic may be delivered separately by different operators. In addition, a number of service providers have recently launched Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP), which is a competitive technology to traditional telephony in the consumer market. In the mobile market, there are two Universal Mobile Telephony Service (UMTS) license holders apart from us, one of which is our primary competitor in the Norwegian mobile market, NetCom. The second license holder, Hi3G, a new entrant to the Norwegian mobile market, was awarded its license in August 2003. Apart from enjoying more favorable license conditions than NetCom and us, Hi3G was permitted to immediately claim national roaming in the existing GSM networks. Currently, several mobile service providers utilize our infrastructure, or that of our primary competitor, and the regulator may require us to reduce the prices we charge to these service providers. You should read “Risks related to regulatory matters” for further information. We have also launched an MVNO (Mobile Virtual Network Operator) offer in the market. Furthermore, pursuant to regulatory requirements, we provide network access to external providers of short messaging services (SMS). As competition continues to intensify, we expect that market pressures may require us to reduce tariffs further and to increase our marketing and sales expenses. However, we may nonetheless lose further market share, which may adversely affect our revenue growth and profit margin since the effect of lost market share in the retail market is unlikely to be fully offset by providing wholesale services to competing service providers. If we fail to successfully develop and market new mobile communications services, our ability to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications services in the Norwegian market and the more mature international markets in which we operate may be reduced. Because of being the market leader, the current high penetration rate and increased competition in the mobile telephony market in Norway and certain more mature international markets in which we operate, such as Denmark and Hungary, we expect that further revenue growth in mobile communications in these countries will depend on our ability to successfully develop and market new applications and services or have third parties provide services using our network. In particular, it is our goal to stimulate demand for value-added services. Failure to successfully do so may impair our ability to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications services in these countries. 10 Table of Contents Lack of control, or failure to increase our ownership and thus gain control, over companies in which we have minority interests, or disagreements with our principal shareholders in our international operations, may impede our strategic objectives. As part of our strategy, we intend to expand our minority ownership interests in, and gain control of, some of our investments in order to exercise a controlling influence over key business decisions, including the approval of strategy and business plans. If we fail to increase our ownership interests and gain control, our cost savings and revenue enhancement from these operations may be limited. A failure to increase our ownership interest in our associated companies may limit our ability to influence key business or strategic decisions, particularly in situations in which we disagree with other principal shareholders. For example, our ability to influence key business or strategic decisions in our associated company VimpelCom, a Russian mobile operator in which we own 26.6% of its voting share capital, is closely related to the fact that VimpelCom’s charter requires certain decisions to be approved by 80% of the members of VimpelCom’s board of directors. However, during the last two years, an individual shareholder of VimpelCom and Vimpelcom’s other principal shareholder, the Alfa Group (whose telecommunications division now does business under the name “Altimo”), have filed lawsuits in Russian courts aimed at undermining these provisions of VimpelCom’s charter. All of these lawsuits have now been dismissed or withdrawn, but our ability to influence decisions about important matters in VimpelCom might be limited as a result of future actions by the Alfa Group. In addition, when our other principal shareholders in our international mobile operations fail to adequately support these companies, not participate or disagree with us over key corporate actions, such companies may not be able to compete or operate effectively and the value of our investments may be impaired. For example, Ukrainian law requires the attendance of shareholders holding more than 60% of a company’s share capital for a quorum to be present at shareholder meetings, and the charter of Kyivstar, our 56.5% owned Ukrainian mobile operator, requires the attendance of at least one director from Storm, the other shareholder in Kyivstar and a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Alfa Group, for a valid quorum at board meetings. There have been situations arising in 2005 that resulted in the failure of Storm or its nominees to attend meetings. Telenor has therefore been involved in litigation with Storm LLC concerning these corporate governance and other issues involving Kyivstar, including but not limited to the lack of Storm or its nominees attendance at Board of Directors meetings. As provided for under Kyivstar’s shareholders’ agreement, we have also commenced arbitration proceedings against Storm to force Storm, and its affiliates in the Alfa Group, to comply with the terms of the shareholders’ agreement. Furthermore, we have also proposed certain amendments to the Kyivstar charter but the actions of Storm described above, including the failure of Storm or its nominees to attend meetings, could still adversely affect the ability of Kyivstar to operate and compete effectively. Your should read “Item 4: Information on the Company — Mobile Operations — Associated Companies — VimpelCom — Russian and other CIS countries” and “Item 4: Information on the Company — Kyivstar — Ukraine” for additional information about VimpelCom and Kyivstar, respectively. The value of our international operations and investments may be adversely affected by political, social, economic and legal developments in foreign countries. Some of the countries in which we have operations or in which we have made significant equity investments in telecommunications operators, have political, social, economic and legal systems that may at times be unpredictable. Political or economic upheaval or changes in laws or their application may harm the operations of the companies in which we have invested and impair the value of these investments to us. A significant risk of operating in emerging market countries is that foreign exchange restrictions could be established. This could effectively prevent us from receiving profits from, or from selling our investments in, these countries. 11 Table of Contents Increased exposure to currency exchange rate fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our reported earnings and the value of our international operations and investments. An increasing proportion of our revenues and profits are derived from our international mobile operations and investments. Fluctuations in currency exchange rates between the Norwegian Krone and the currencies, in particular the U.S. dollar, in which our international operations or investments report and operate, could adversely affect our earnings as reported in Norwegian Krone. We attempt to mitigate the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates through foreign currency hedging. However, there can be no assurance that our efforts will be successful. If we or international mobile operators in which we have invested fail to obtain, or fail to enter into agreements to utilize, licenses for third generation mobile services, we may be unable to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications or to benefit from certain cost reductions related to network improvements in our target markets. Our ability to offer third generation mobile services, either directly, or through our international associated companies, depends upon our obtaining UMTS licenses or entering into agreements with operators that have been awarded such licenses in markets in which we are, or intend to be, present. Failure to establish ourselves or our associated companies among the providers of third generation mobile services may limit our ability: • to achieve further revenue growth in mobile communications, if demand for improved or new services and products, which will work better on UMTS networks, proves to be strong; and/or • to benefit from the low incremental costs of increases in UMTS network capacity compared to increases in GSM network capacity. Continuing rapid changes in technologies could increase competition or require us to make substantial additional investments. The services we offer are technology-intensive. The development of new technologies may render our services non-competitive. We may have to make substantial additional investments in new technologies to remain competitive. New technologies we choose may not prove to be commercially successful. As a result, we could lose customers, fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs in order to maintain our customer base. In-orbit satellite failure may result in lost revenues in our satellite broadcasting business. The operation of satellites is subject to the risk of in-orbit failure, which could arise from various causes, such as a failure of satellite components, solar or other astronomical events or space debris. It is not feasible to repair satellites in space. The satellites themselves are insured in such cases, but we do not insure against lost revenues in the event of a total or partial loss of the communications capacity of a satellite while in orbit. Actual or perceived health risks or other problems relating to mobile handsets or transmission masts could lead to decreased mobile communications usage. Concern has been expressed that the electromagnetic signals from mobile handsets and base stations and chemicals leaking from mobile handsets may pose health risks or interfere with the operation of electronic equipment, including automobile braking and steering systems. Actual or perceived risks of mobile handsets or base stations and related publicity, regulation or litigation could reduce our mobile telephone customer base, make it difficult to find attractive sites for base stations or cause mobile telephone customers to use their mobile phones less. 12 Table of Contents Risks Related to Regulatory Matters Increased regulation and changes in the regulatory environment could adversely affect our business operations in Norway. Our operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements in Norway. In particular, we must comply with requirements regulating the licensing, construction and operation of our telecommunications, cable TV, broadcasting and satellite networks and services, and there are governmental authorities which monitor and enforce competition laws and consumer protection laws applicable to the telecommunications industry. It is difficult for us to predict the precise impact of any proposed or potential changes in regulatory, environmental or government policies on our operations. If regulators decide to expand or introduce restrictions and obligations applicable to our business operations or to extend them to new services and markets, this could adversely affect our business operations and competitiveness in existing and new markets. For additional information on the regulatory requirements to which we are subject, you should read “Item 4: Information on the Company — Regulation — Norway”. Existing and new regulatory requirements may impair our flexibility in setting tariff structures, require us to further reduce tariffs, provide advantages to our competitors or provide grounds for legal proceedings against us. We are considered by the Norwegian Post and Telecommunications Authority to have significant market power with regard to both our fixed and our mobile operations in the Norwegian markets for voice telephony, transmission capacity and interconnection services. As a result, we are subject to specific obligations regarding pricing, accounting and reporting with respect to these services. In particular, we are required to offer these services to our wholesale customers and end users at cost-oriented prices and on non-discriminatory terms. These and other new requirements may impair our flexibility in setting tariff structures or may require us to further reduce tariffs, which may adversely affect our revenues and net income. In addition, if we are required to reduce interconnection prices or change the terms on which we provide certain services as a result of our obligation to provide cost-oriented pricing and non-discriminatory terms for interconnection and access, our competitors may be at an advantage, depending on the services provided. This regulatory environment also provides the grounds for several legal proceedings brought against us by our competitors and customers, alleging that our failure or delay in providing access to our network on the terms required by law has caused them loss. Our alleged failures and delays include failing to deliver cost-oriented pricing and late implementation of carrier pre-selection. For additional information on these legal proceedings, you should read “Item 8: Financial Information — Legal Proceedings”. The regulatory framework in Norway, which is based on EU telecommunications regulation, may impair our ability to compete effectively in our existing or new markets. In February 2002, the European Union (EU) adopted a number of directives with the objective of developing a harmonized regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services throughout the EU. In Norway, the new regulatory framework was implemented by the Electronic Communications Act of July 2003. The impact of the introduction of the new framework is still uncertain, in part because it will depend on the regulators’ interpretation of the framework and their assessment of the competitive situation in the relevant markets. Our ability to compete effectively in our existing or new geographical and product markets could be adversely affected by the regulators’ decision to extend the scope of the restrictions we are currently subject to, to new services and markets in the face of continuing convergence of information and communications services. You should read “Item 4: Information on the Company — Regulation — Norway — Regulatory framework and developments” and “Regulation — European Union Regulation” for more information on the new regulatory framework. 13 Table of Contents Increased and unpredictable regulation of our international mobile operations and investments and the lack of institutional continuity and safeguards in certain of the emerging market countries in which we operate could adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs of regulatory compliance and adversely affect our results and business prospects. We derive an increasingly higher portion of our revenues and profits (or losses) from our international mobile operations and investments,with increased regulation. As a consequence, regulatory uncertainty or unfavorable regulatory developments in certain countries could adversely affect our results and business prospects. We must comply with an extensive range of requirements that regulate the licensing, construction and operation of our telecommunications networks and services or restrict our ability to invest or increase our investment in local companies in these countries. In particular, there are agencies which regulate and supervise the allocation of frequency spectrum and which monitor and enforce regulation and competition laws which apply to the mobile telecommunications industry. Decisions by regulators regarding the granting, amendment or renewal of licences, to us or to third parties, could adversely affect our future operations in these countries. For example, our subsidiary Pannon has been identified as having significant market power in the mobile and interconnection markets in Hungary, and has been required to contribute to a fund established by the Hungarian authorities to compensate universal service providers. In Malaysia, we are required to reduce our current 61% ownership interest in our mobile subsidiary DiGi.Com to below 50% by the second half of 2006, unless we apply for additional extensions. In Thailand, where we operate through our consolidated subsidiary DTAC, we are exposed to uncertainty relating to the licensing system, the consequences of the build, operate and transfer regime applicable to mobile networks operated by private investors and uncertainty relating to restrictions on foreign investment in Thailand, in particular with respect to the cap on our direct ownership interest in DTAC. For additional information on these regulatory developments outside Norway, you should read “Item 4: Information about the Company”. Some of the emerging markets in which we operate are in the process of transition to market economies, stable political institutions and comprehensive regulatory systems. Overall, we expect the regulatory framework in most countries to converge with that of the European Union. However, some of the emerging market countries in which we operate lack the institutional continuity and strong procedural and regulatory safeguards typical of the more established countries in which we operate, such as Norway, Denmark and Sweden. In addition, in countries with a large and complicated structure of government and administration, such as Russia, national, regional, local and other governmental bodies may issue inconsistent decisions. As a result, in these emerging countries we are exposed to regulatory uncertainty, which could increase uncertainty for our business and our cost of regulatory compliance, and we enjoy less comprehensive protection for some of our rights. Risks Related to Our Ownership by the Kingdom of Norway We could be influenced by the Kingdom of Norway whose interest may not always be aligned with the interests of our other shareholders. As of March 31, 2006, the Kingdom of Norway holds 54.4% of our shares. Accordingly, the Kingdom of Norway continues to have the power to determine certain matters submitted for a vote of shareholders, including electing a majority of the corporate assembly which in turn has the power to elect our board of directors, as well as the power of approval of the annual financial statements and declarations of dividends. The interests of the Kingdom of Norway in deciding these matters and the factors it considers in exercising its votes could be different from the interests of our other shareholders. 14 Table of Contents Risks Related to Our Ordinary Shares and the American Depositary Shares The price of our ordinary shares and ADSs may be volatile and fluctuate significantly due to many factors, including variations in our operating results and changes to the regulatory environment. The trading price of our ordinary shares and ADSs could fluctuate widely in response to factors such as quarterly variations in our operating results, adverse business developments, interest rate changes, changes in financial estimates by securities analysts, announcements of technological or other developments by us or our major customers or competitors, changes to the regulatory environment in which we operate or the actual or expected sale of a large block of shares by the Kingdom of Norway. An ADS holder may not be able to exercise voting rights as readily as an ordinary shareholder. Holders of ADSs may instruct the ADR depositary to vote the ordinary shares underlying the ADSs. However, in order to exercise their voting rights at meetings, holders of ADSs must instruct the ADR depositary to cause the temporary transfer of the underlying ordinary shares so as to register their ownership of such ordinary shares directly in our share register in the VPS (Norwegian Central Securities Depository System) prior to the meeting. In addition, the ADR holder must cause the delivery of such holder’s ADSs to a blocked account with The Depository Trust Company for the account of the ADR depositary and notify the ADR depositary that such ADSs are being held in a blocked account. The ADSs must remain in the designated account until the conclusion of the meeting at which such voting rights are to be exercised by the ADR depositary. There is no guarantee that you will receive voting materials in time to instruct the ADR depositary to vote and it is possible that ADS holders, or persons who hold their ADSs through brokers, dealers or other third parties, will not have the opportunity to exercise a right to vote. 