Item 1A. Risk FactorsLaclede Group’s business and financial results are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those set forth below. The risks described below are those the Company considers to be material. When considering any investment in Laclede Group securities, investors should carefully consider the following information, as well as information contained in the caption "Forward-Looking Statements," Item 7A, and other documents Laclede files with the SEC. This list is not exhaustive, and Laclede Group's management places no priority or likelihood based on the risk descriptions, order of presentation or grouping by subsidiary. RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES THAT RELATE TO THE BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS OF LACLEDE GROUP AND ITS SUBSIDIARIESAs a holding company, Laclede Group depends on its operating subsidiaries to meet its financial obligations.Laclede Group is a holding company with no significant assets other than the stock of its operating subsidiaries and cash investments. Laclede Group, and the Utility prior to Laclede Group’s formation, have paid dividends continuously since 1946. However, Laclede Group relies exclusively on dividends from its subsidiaries, on intercompany loans from its non-utility subsidiaries, and on the repayments of principal and interest from intercompany loans made to its subsidiaries for its cash flows. Laclede Group’s ability to pay dividends to its shareholders is dependent on the ability of its subsidiaries to generate sufficient net income and cash flows to pay upstream dividends and make loans or loan repayments.A downgrade in Laclede Group’s credit ratings may negatively affect its ability to access capital.Currently, Laclede Group has investment grade credit ratings, which are subject to review and change by the rating agencies. Laclede Group has working capital lines of credit to meet the short-term liquidity needs of its subsidiaries. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit rating, particularly below investment grade, it might significantly limit its ability to secure new or additional credit facilities and would increase its costs of borrowing. Laclede Group’s ability to borrow under current or new credit facilities and costs of that borrowing have a direct impact on its subsidiaries’ ability to execute their operating strategies. In the fourth quarter of 2013, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings each lowered their ratings of Laclede Group by one notch to A- and BBB+, respectively. There are no implications of this downgrade on our corporate funding ability or our ability to access the capital markets, nor does this downgrade trigger any collateralization requirements under our corporate guarantees. There is no assurance that such credit ratings will be issued or remain in effect for any given period of time or that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies, if, in each rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. For additional credit rating information, see Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” Unexpected losses may adversely affect Laclede Group’s financial condition and results of operations.As with most businesses, there are operations and business risks inherent in the activities of Laclede Group’s subsidiaries. If, in the normal course of business, Laclede Group becomes a party to litigation, such litigation could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary practice, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries maintain insurance against a significant portion of, but not all, risks and losses. In addition, in the normal course of its operations, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries may be exposed to loss from other sources, such as bad debt expense or the failure of a counterparty to meet its financial obligations. Laclede Group and its operating companies employ many strategies to gain assurance that such risks are appropriately managed, mitigated, or insured, as appropriate. To the extent a loss is not fully covered by insurance or other risk mitigation strategies, that loss could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.9Table of ContentsIncreased inter-dependence on technology may adversely hinder Laclede Group’s business operations and affect its financial condition and results of operations if such technologies fail or are compromised. Over the last several years, Laclede Group and its subsidiaries have implemented a variety of technological tools including both Company-owned information technology and technological services provided by outside parties. In fiscal year 2013, the Company completed its implementation of a Company-wide enterprise resource planning (ERP) system. These tools and systems support critical functions including the Company’s integrated planning, scheduling and dispatching of field resources, its automated meter reading system, customer care and billing, procurement and accounts payable, operational plant logistics, management reporting, and external financial reporting. The failure of these or other similarly important technologies, or the Company’s inability to have these technologies supported, updated, expanded, or integrated into other technologies, could hinder its business operations and adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations. Although the Company has, when possible, developed alternative sources of technology and built redundancy into its computer networks and tools, there can be no assurance that these efforts to date would protect against all potential issues related to the loss of any such technologies or their use. Furthermore, the Company is subject to cyber-security risks primarily related to breaches of security pertaining to sensitive customer, employee, and vendor information maintained by the Company in the normal course of business, as well as breaches in the technology that manages natural gas distribution operations and other business processes. A loss of confidential or proprietary data or security breaches of other technology business tools could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, diminish customer confidence, disrupt operations, and subject the Company to possible financial liability, any of which could have a material affect on the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company closely monitors both preventive and detective measures to manage these risks and maintains cyber risk insurance to mitigate a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these cyber events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. The Company has also completed the acquisition of the assets and liabilities of MGE in Kansas City. Through fiscal 2015, the Utility will be integrating MGE’s data into Laclede’s systems. During this time the Utility will also be evaluating the security controls both process and tool based in place at MGE. Resources expended to pursue business acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements may adversely affect Laclede Group’s financial position and results of operations and return on investments made may not meet expectations.From time to time, Laclede Group may seek to grow through strategic acquisitions, investments or other business arrangements, including the Missouri Gas Energy transaction completed in fiscal year 2013. Attractive acquisition candidates may be difficult to acquire on economically acceptable terms. It is possible for Laclede Group to expend considerable resources pursuing an acquisition candidate, but for a variety of reasons such as changes in economic conditions, changes in the acquisition candidate’s business or concerns arising out of due diligence review, decide not to consummate a definitive transaction. To the extent that acquisitions are made, such acquisitions involve a number of risks, including but not limited to, the assumption of material liabilities, the diversion of management’s attention from daily operations to the integration of the acquisition, difficulties in assimilation and retention of employees, securing adequate capital to support the transaction, and regulatory approval. Uncertainties exist in assessing the value, risks, profitability, and liabilities associated with certain businesses or assets and there is a possibility that anticipated operating and financial synergies expected to result from an acquisition do not develop. The failure to complete an acquisition successfully, or to integrate future acquisitions that it may choose to undertake could have an adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations and the market’s perception of the Company’s execution of its strategy. In order to manage and diversify the risks of certain development projects, Laclede Group may use partnerships or other investments. Such business arrangements may limit Laclede Group’s ability to fully direct the management and policies of the business relationship. These arrangements may cause additional risks such as operating agreements limiting Laclede Group's control or Laclede Group's ability to appropriately value the business drivers or assets of the business arrangement. While Laclede Group would pursue strategies to mitigate these risks and enforce its interests, these risks may adversely impact the projects and Laclede Group’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.10Table of ContentsChanges in accounting standards may adversely impact the Utility's financial condition and results of operations.Laclede group is subject to changes in U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), SEC regulations and other interpretations of financial reporting requirements for public utilities. The company has no control over the impact these changes may have on our financial condition or results of operations nor the timing of such changes. The potential issues associated with rate-regulated accounting, along with other potential changes considered by U.S. Financial Accounting Standards Board continues to consider various changes to U.S. GAAP may be significant.RISKS RELATED TO THE COMPANY'S ACQUISITION OF MISSOURI GAS ENERGY (MGE) ASSETS AND LIABILITIES AS WELL AS THE ACQUISITION AGREEMENTS WITH SOUTHERN UNION COMPANY AND ALGONQUIN POWER & UTILITIES CORP REGARDING NEW ENGLAND GAS ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.The New England Gas (NEG) transaction may not be completed or may be approved subject to unfavorable regulatory conditions, which could adversely affect anticipated benefits and/or Laclede Group's business, financial condition, results of operations and/or stock price.On December 14, 2012, Laclede Group, through a wholly owned subsidiary, Plaza Massachusetts Acquisition, Inc. (Plaza Massachusetts), entered into an acquisition agreement to acquire from Southern Union Company (SUG) substantially all of the assets and liabilities of New England Gas Company (NEG). On February 11, 2013, the Company entered into an agreement with Algonquin Power & Utilities Corp. (APUC) that will allow an APUC subsidiary, through its acquisition of the stock of Plaza Massachusetts, to acquire the Company's rights to purchase the assets of NEG, subject to certain approvals and conditions. In order to close the NEG transaction, approval by the Massachusetts Department of Public Utilities (MDPU) of the acquisition of the assets of NEG by the APUC subsidiary must be received. The sale of NEG to APUC is still pending before the MDPU. The acquisition agreement contains certain termination rights for both the Company and SUG, including, among others, the right to terminate if the transaction is not completed by October 14, 2013 (subject to up to four 30-day extensions under certain circumstances related to obtaining required regulatory approvals). The Company and SUG have agreed to extend the NEG purchase agreement twice until December 14, 2013 to enable the MDPU to complete its review process. Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that APUC will be able to satisfy all of the required conditions on or before the end of the extension periods. The Company's agreement to acquire NEG remains in effect if APUC cannot satisfy the conditions for closing before the expiration of the extension periods.The pending transaction with APUC and SUG for the NEG assets subjects Laclede Group to a number of additional risks, including the following:•the Company’s estimate of the costs to complete the sale of NEG may vary significantly from actual results;•both before and after the sale of NEG to APUC, the attention of management may be diverted to the closing of the sale of NEG rather than to current operations, the integration of MGE or the pursuit of other opportunities that could be beneficial to the Company;•the potential loss of key employees of the Company or of NEG who may be uncertain about their future roles if and when the NEG sale is completed; and•the trading price of Laclede Group’s common stock may decline to the extent that the current market price reflects a market assumption that the transaction will be completed.The occurrence of any of these events individually or in combination could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations or the trading price of its common stock.On August 13, 2013, the Utility issued debt in the aggregate principal amount of $450 million to provide permanent financing for the acquisition of MGE and, as a result, the Company is subject to risks related to a higher level of indebtedness. In connection with the MGE acquisition, the Utility incurred additional debt to pay a portion of the acquisition cost and transaction expenses. The Utility's total indebtedness as of September 30, 2013 was $1,011 million (including $121 million of short-term borrowings and $890 million of long-term debt).The Utility’s debt service obligations with respect to this increased indebtedness could have an adverse impact on its earnings and cash flows (which after the acquisition include the earnings and cash flows of MGE) for as long as the indebtedness is outstanding.11Table of ContentsAmong other risks, the increase in indebtedness may:•make it more difficult for Laclede Group to pay or refinance its debts as they become due during adverse economic and industry conditions;•limit the Company’s flexibility to pursue other strategic opportunities or react to changes in its business and the industry in which it operates and, consequently, place it at a competitive disadvantage to competitors with less debt;•require an increased portion of the Company’s cash flows from operations of Laclede Group and the Utility to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of its cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments and other general corporate purposes;•result in a downgrade in the credit rating of Laclede Group’s or the Utility's indebtedness, which could limit their ability to borrow additional funds or increase the interest rates applicable to their indebtedness;•result in higher interest expense in the event of an increase in market interest rates for both long-term debt and short-term commercial paper or bank loans at variable rates;•reduce the amount of credit available to support hedging activities; and•require that additional terms, conditions or covenants be placed on the Company.Based upon current levels of operations, the Utility expects to be able to generate sufficient cash through earnings on a consolidated basis or through refinancing to make all of the principal and interest payments when such payments are due under its existing credit agreements, indentures and other instruments governing its outstanding indebtedness; but there can be no assurance that the Utility will be able to repay or refinance such borrowings and obligations in future periods.In addition, in order to maintain investment-grade credit ratings, Laclede Group may consider it appropriate to reduce the amount of indebtedness outstanding following the acquisitions. This may be accomplished in several ways, including issuing additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock, reducing discretionary uses of cash or a combination of these and other measures. Issuances of additional shares of common stock or securities convertible into shares of common stock would have the effect of diluting the ownership percentage that shareholders hold in the combined company, increase the Company’s dividend payment obligations and might reduce the reported earnings per share. The acquisition of MGE and associated costs and integration efforts may adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition or results of operations, which may negatively affect the market price of Laclede Group's common shares.While management currently anticipates that the acquisition of MGE will be accretive to the Utility's net economic earnings in fiscal year 2014, and thereafter, this expectation is based on preliminary estimates which may materially change. Laclede Group may encounter additional transaction and integration-related costs, may fail to realize all of the anticipated synergies and benefits of the acquisitions or be subject to other factors that affect those preliminary estimates. The process of integrating the operations of MGE could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of those businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. Integration could take longer than anticipated and could result in inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements. The diversion of management's attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with the transaction and the integration of the companies' operations could have an adverse effect on the business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects of Laclede Group after the acquisitions are ultimately consummated. The Company expects to incur costs associated with integrating the operations of the utilities, and management’s estimate of the costs and the operating performance after the transaction closes may vary significantly from actual results. In accordance with the Unanimous Stipulation and Agreement, the Utility may amortize and recover certain transition costs in future rate case proceedings subject to review of other parties’ and the Missouri Public Service Commission’s (MoPSC or Commission) approval of the Company’s quantification of such cost. Potential differences regarding these quantifications may impact the Company’s financial results. Additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the businesses.Any of these factors could cause a decrease in the price of Laclede Group's common shares.The acquisition of MGE may not achieve its intended results, including anticipated synergies and cost savings.Although we expect that the acquisition of MGE will result in various benefits, including a significant amount of synergies, cost savings and other financial and operational benefits, there can be no assurance regarding when or the extent to which we will be able to realize these synergies, cost savings or other benefits. Achieving the anticipated benefits, including synergies and cost savings, is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the assets acquired can be operated in the manner we intend. Events outside of our control, including but not limited to regulatory changes or developments, could also adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the MGE acquisition. 12Table of ContentsThus the integration of MGE may be unpredictable, subject to delays or changed circumstances, and we can give no assurance that the acquired assets will perform in accordance with our expectations or that our expectations with respect to integration, synergies or cost savings as a result of the MGE acquisition will materialize. In addition, our anticipated costs to achieve the integration of MGE may differ significantly from our current estimates. The integration may place an additional burden on our management and internal resources, and the diversion of management’s attention during the integration process could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and expected operating results.We are dependent on ETE and SUG for certain transitional services for MGE to be provided pursuant to a continuing services agreement. The failure of ETE or SUG to perform its obligations under this agreement could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition.We are initially dependent upon ETE and SUG to continue to provide certain shared services and business support functions in areas such as technology and human resources for a period of time after the close of the acquisition to facilitate the integration of MGE. The terms of these arrangements are governed by a continuing services agreement. If ETE or SUG fails to perform its obligations under the continuing services agreement, we may not be able to perform such services or obtain such services from third parties on favorable terms or at all. In addition, upon termination of the continuing services agreement, if we are unable to perform such services or obtain such services from third parties, it could adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition.In connection with the MGE acquisition, the Utility recorded goodwill and long-lived assets that could become impaired and adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations.Laclede Group will assess goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently if events or circumstances occur that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. The Company assesses its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that an asset’s carrying amount may not be recoverable. To the extent the value of goodwill or long-lived assets becomes impaired, the Company may be required to incur impairment charges that could have a material impact on its results of operations. No impairment of long-lived assets was recorded during 2013. Since interest rates are a key component, among other assumptions, in the models used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units, as interest rates rise, the calculated fair values decrease and future impairments may occur. Due to the subjectivity of the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment analysis, Laclede Group cannot provide assurance that future analyses will not result in impairment. These assumptions and estimates include projected cash flows, current and future rates for contracted capacity, growth rates, weighted average cost of capital and market multiples. For additional information, see Item 7, “Critical Accounting Policies.”RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS UTILITY DISTRIBUTION SEGMENTRegulation of the Utility business may impact rates it is able to charge, costs, and profitability.The Missouri Public Service Commission (MoPSC or Commission) regulates many aspects of the Utility’s distribution operations, including construction and maintenance of facilities, operations, safety, the rates that the Utility may charge customers, the terms of service to its customers, transactions with its affiliates, and the rate of return that it is allowed to realize; as well as the accounting treatment for certain aspects of its operations. For further discussion of these accounting matters, see Critical Accounting Policies pertaining to the Utility operations, beginning on page 34. The Utility's ability to obtain and timely implement rate increases and rate supplements to maintain the current rate of return depends upon regulatory discretion. There can be no assurance that it will be able to obtain rate increases or rate supplements or continue earning the current authorized rates of return. Furthermore, in accordance with the Unanimous Stipulation and Agreement, the Utility will not file a general rate case, other than the currently pending MGE rate case, for non-gas costs prior to October 1, 2015 unless a significant, unusual event impacts any of its operations. The first general rate case filed after October 1, 2015, requires that it be for both Laclede Gas and MGE.The Utility could incur additional costs if required to adjust to new laws or regulations, revisions to existing laws or regulations or changes in interpretations of existing laws or regulations such as the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If the Utility fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new, it could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate its operations.13Table of ContentsThe Utility is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies that could adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.The Utility is involved in legal or administrative proceedings before various courts and governmental bodies with respect to general claims, rates, environmental issues, gas cost prudence reviews and other matters. Adverse decisions regarding these matters, to the extent they require the Utility to make payments in excess of amounts provided for in our financial statements, or to the extent they are not covered by insurance, could adversely affect the Utility's results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.The Utility's liquidity may be adversely affected by delays in recovery of its costs, due to regulation.In the normal course of business, there may be a lag between when the Utility incurs increases in certain of its costs and the time in which those costs are considered for recovery in the ratemaking process. Cash requirements for increased operating costs, increased funding levels of defined benefit pension and postretirement costs, capital expenditures, and other increases in the costs of doing business may require outlays of cash prior to the authorization of increases in rates charged to customers, as approved by the MoPSC. Accordingly, the Utility’s liquidity may be adversely impacted to the extent higher costs are not timely recovered from its customers. In accordance with the Unanimous Stipulation and Agreement, the Utility will not file a general rate case for non-gas costs prior to October 1, 2015 unless a significant, unusual event impacts any of its operations. The first general rate case filed after October 1, 2015, is required to be for both Laclede Gas and MGE.The Utility's ability to meet its customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies, interstate pipeline and/or storage services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.In order to meet its customers’ annual and seasonal natural gas demands, the Utility must obtain sufficient supplies, interstate pipeline capacity, and storage capacity. If it is unable to obtain these, either from its suppliers’ inability to deliver the contracted commodity or the inability to secure replacement quantities, the Utility's financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted. If a substantial disruption in interstate natural gas pipelines’ transmission and storage capacity were to occur during periods of heavy demand, the Utility’s financial results could be adversely impacted.The Utility's liquidity and, in certain circumstances, its results of operations may be adversely affected by the cost of purchasing natural gas during periods in which natural gas prices are rising significantly.Laclede Gas’ and MGE's tariff rate schedules contain Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) Clauses that permit it to file for rate adjustments to recover the cost of purchased gas. Changes in the cost of purchased gas are flowed through to customers and may affect uncollectible amounts and cash flows and can therefore impact the amount of capital resources. Currently, Laclede Gas and MGE are allowed to adjust the gas cost component of their rates up to four times each year. The Utility must make a mandatory gas cost adjustment at the beginning of the winter, in November, and during the next twelve months it may make up to three additional discretionary gas cost adjustments, so long as each of these adjustments is separated by at least two months.The MoPSC typically approves the Utility’s PGA changes on an interim basis, subject to refund and the outcome of a subsequent audit and prudence review. Due to such review process, there is a risk of a disallowance of full recovery of these costs. Any material disallowance of purchased gas costs would adversely affect revenues. Increases in the prices the Utility charges for gas may also adversely affect revenues because they could lead customers to reduce usage and cause some customers to have trouble paying the resulting higher bills. These higher prices may increase bad debt expenses and ultimately reduce earnings. The Utility has used short-term borrowings in the past to finance storage inventories and purchased gas costs, and expects to do so in the future. Rapid increases in the price of purchased gas may result in an increase in short-term debt.To lower financial exposure to commodity price fluctuations, the Utility enters into contracts to hedge the forward commodity price of its natural gas supplies. As part of this strategy, the Utility may use fixed-price, forward, physical purchase contracts, swaps, futures, and option contracts. However, the Utility does not hedge the entire exposure of energy assets or positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time. Any costs, gains, or losses experienced through hedging procedures, including carrying costs, generally flow through the PGA Clause, thereby limiting the Utility’s exposure to earnings volatility. However, variations in the timing of collections of such gas costs under the PGA Clause and the effect of cash payments for margin deposits associated with the Utility’s use of natural gas derivative instruments may cause short-term cash requirements to vary. These procedures remain subject to prudence review by the MoPSC.14Table of ContentsThe Utility may be adversely affected by economic conditions.Periods of slowed economic activity generally result in decreased energy consumption, particularly by industrial and large commercial companies. As a consequence, national or regional recessions or other downturns in economic activity could adversely affect the Utility's revenues and cash flows or restrict its future growth. Economic conditions in its service territory may also adversely impact the Utility’s ability to collect its accounts receivable resulting in an increase in bad debt expenses.The Utility is dependent on bank lines of credit and continued access to capital markets to successfully execute its operating strategies.In addition to longer-term debt that is issued by the Utility under its mortgage and deed of trust dated February 1, 1945, the Utility has relied, and continues to rely, upon shorter term borrowings or commercial paper supported by bank lines of credit to finance the execution of a portion of its operating strategies. The Utility is dependent on these capital sources to purchase its natural gas supply and maintain its properties. The availability and cost of these credit sources is cyclical and these capital sources may not remain available to the Utility, or it may not be able to obtain funds at a reasonable cost in the future. the Utility's ability to borrow under its existing lines of credit depends on its compliance with the Utility’s obligations under the lines of credit. If the Utility were to breach any of the financial or other covenants under these agreements, its debt repayment obligations under them could be accelerated. The Utility's ability to issue commercial paper supported by its lines of credit, to issue long-term bonds, or to obtain new lines of credit also depends on current conditions in the credit markets. The Utility’s access to funds under committed short-term credit facilities, which are currently provided by a number of banks, is dependent on the ability of the participating banks to meet their funding commitments. Those banks may not be able to meet their funding commitments if they experience shortages of capital and liquidity. Disruptions in the bank or capital financing markets as a result of economic uncertainty, changing or increased regulation of the financial sector, or failure of major financial institutions could adversely affect the Utility’s access to capital and negatively impact its ability to run its business and make strategic investments.A downgrade in the Utility’s credit rating may negatively affect its ability to access capital.Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investors Service, and Fitch Ratings from time to time implement new requirements for various ratings levels. To maintain its current credit ratings in light of any new requirements, the Utility may find it necessary to take steps to change its business plans in ways that may affect its results of operations. The Utility’s credit ratings remain at investment grade, but are subject to review and change by the rating agencies. If the rating agencies lowered the Utility’s ratings, particularly below investment grade, it could significantly limit its ability to secure new or additional credit facilities and would increase its costs of borrowing. In addition, the Utility would likely be required to pay a higher interest rate in future long-term financings and the Utility’s potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease. The Utility's ability to borrow under current or new credit facilities and costs of that borrowing have a direct impact on its ability to execute operating strategies. Numerous environmental laws and regulations may require significant expenditures or increase operating costs.The Utility is subject to federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations affecting many aspects of its present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utility to obtain and comply with a wide variety of environmental licenses, permits, inspections, and approvals. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations and failure to obtain any required permits and licenses may result in costs to the Utility in the form of fines, penalties or business interruptions, which may be material. In addition, existing environmental laws and regulations could be revised or reinterpreted and/or new laws and regulations could be adopted or become applicable to the Utility or its facilities, thereby impacting the Utility’s cost of compliance. The discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions, including former manufactured gas plant sites, and claims against the Utility under environmental laws and regulations may result in expenditures and liabilities, which could be material. To the extent environmental compliance costs are not fully covered by insurance or recovered in rates from the Utility’s customers, those costs may have an adverse effect on the Utility's financial condition and results of operations.The Utility is subject to pipeline safety and system integrity laws and regulations that may require significant expenditures or significant increases in operating costs.Such laws and regulations affect various aspects of the Utility's present and future operations. These laws and regulations require the Utility to maintain pipeline safety and system integrity by identifying and reducing pipeline risks. Compliance with these laws and regulations, or future changes in these laws and regulations, may result in increased capital, operating and other costs which may not be recoverable in a timely manner from customers in rates. 15Table of ContentsFailure to comply may result in fines, penalties, or injunctive measures that would not be recoverable from customers in rates and could result in a material effect on the Utility's financial condition and results of operations.Transporting, distributing, and storing natural gas and transporting and storing propane involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs.There are inherent in gas distribution activities a variety of hazards and operations risks, such as leaks, accidental explosions, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. In addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of operations, and substantial losses to the Utility. The location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. Similar risks also exist for the Utility's propane storage and transmission operations. These activities may subject the Utility to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time. Such litigation or proceedings could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against the Utility or be resolved on unfavorable terms. In accordance with customary industry practices, the Utility maintains insurance against a significant portion, but not all, of these risks and losses. To the extent that the occurrence of any of these events is not fully covered by insurance, it could adversely affect the Utility’s financial condition and results of operations.Changes in the wholesale costs of purchased natural gas supplies may adversely impact the Utility’s competitive position compared with alternative energy sources.The Utility is the only distributor of natural gas within its franchised service area. Nevertheless, the changes in wholesale natural gas prices compared with prices for electricity, fuel oil, coal, propane, or other energy sources may affect the Utility’s retention of natural gas customers and adversely impact its financial condition and results of operations.Significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions, the effects of global warming and climate change, and other factors that influence customer usage may affect the Utility’s sale of heating energy and adversely impact its financial position and results of operations.The Utility's earnings are primarily generated by the sale of heating energy. The Utility has weather mitigation rate designs, approved by the MoPSC, which provide better assurance of the recovery of the Utility’s fixed costs and margins during winter months despite variations in sales volumes due to the impacts of weather and other factors that affect customer usage. However, significantly warmer-than-normal weather conditions in the Utility’s service area and other factors, such as global warming, climate change and alternative energy sources, may result in reduced profitability and decreased cash flows attributable to lower gas sales. Furthermore, continuation of the weather mitigation rate design at Laclede Gas or the straight fixed variable rate design at MGE are subject to regulatory discretion. In addition, the promulgation of regulations by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or the potential enactment of Congressional legislation addressing global warming and climate change may result in future additional compliance costs that could impact the Utility’s financial condition and results of operations.Regional supply/demand fluctuations and changes in national pipeline infrastructure, as well as regulatory discretion, may adversely affect the Utility's ability to profit from off-system sales and capacity release.The Utility's income from off-system sales and capacity release is subject to fluctuations in market conditions and changing supply and demand conditions in areas the Utility holds pipeline capacity rights. Specific factors impacting the Utility’s income from off-system sales and capacity release include the availability of attractively-priced natural gas supply, availability of pipeline capacity, and market demand. Income from off-system sales and capacity release is shared with customers. The Utility is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $6 million in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $6 million annually. In accordance with the MoPSC agreement to suspend the procedural schedule in Laclede Gas’ base rate proceeding, the Utility deferred, until fiscal year 2017, its ability to retain 15% of the first $2 million. MGE is allowed to retain 15% to 25% of the first $3.6 million in annual income earned (depending on the level of income earned) and 30% of income exceeding $3.6 million annually. The Utility’s ability to retain such income in the future is subject to regulatory discretion in a base rate proceeding.16Table of ContentsWorkforce risks may affect the Utility's financial results.The Utility is subject to various workforce risks, including, but not limited to, the risk that it will be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel; that it will be unable to effectively transfer the knowledge and expertise of an aging workforce to new personnel as those workers retire; and that it will be unable to reach collective bargaining arrangements with the unions that represent certain of its workers, which could result in work stoppages.Catastrophic events may adversely affect the Utility's facilities and operations.Catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, tornados, terrorist acts, or other similar occurrences could adversely affect the Utility's facilities and operations. The Utility has emergency planning and training programs in place to respond to events that could cause business interruptions. However, unanticipated events or a combination of events, failure in resources needed to respond to events, or slow or inadequate response to events may have an adverse impact on the Utility’s operations, financial condition, and results of operations. The availability of insurance covering catastrophic events may be limited or may result in higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive policy terms.RISKS THAT RELATE TO THE GAS MARKETING SEGMENTIncreased competition, fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices, expiration of existing supply and transportation arrangements, and pipeline infrastructure projects may adversely impact LER’s future profitability.Competition in the marketplace and fluctuations in natural gas commodity prices have a direct impact on LER’s business. Changing market conditions and prices, the narrowing of regional and seasonal price differentials, and limited future price volatility may adversely impact LER’s sales margins or affect LER’s ability to procure gas supplies and/or to serve certain customers, which may reduce sales profitability and/or increase certain credit requirements caused by reductions in netting capability. Also, LER’s profitability may be impacted by the effects of the expiration, in the normal course of business, of certain of its natural gas supply contracts if those contracts cannot be replaced and/or renewed with arrangements with similar terms and pricing. Although the FERC regulates the interstate transportation of natural gas and establishes the general terms and conditions under which LER may use interstate gas pipeline capacity to purchase and transport natural gas, LER must occasionally renegotiate its transportation agreements with a concentrated group of pipeline companies. Renegotiated terms of new agreements, or increases in FERC-authorized rates of existing agreements, may impact LER’s future profitability. Profitability may also be adversely impacted if pipeline capacity or future storage capacity secured by LER is not fully utilized and/or its costs are not fully recovered.Reduced access to credit and/or capital markets may prevent LER from executing operating strategies.LER relies on its cash flows, netting capability, parental guarantees, and access to Laclede Group’s liquidity resources to satisfy its credit and working capital requirements. LER’s ability to rely on parental guarantees is dependent upon Laclede Group’s financial condition and credit ratings. If the rating agencies lowered Laclede Group’s credit ratings, particularly below investment grade, counterparty acceptance of parental guarantees may diminish, resulting in decreased availability of credit. Additionally, under such circumstances, certain counterparties may require LER to provide prepayments or cash deposits, amounts of which would be dependent upon natural gas market conditions. Reduced access to credit or increased credit requirements, which may also be caused by factors such as higher overall natural gas prices, may limit LER’s ability to enter into certain transactions. In addition, LER has concentrations of counterparty credit risk in that a significant portion of its transactions are with (or are associated with) energy producers, utility companies, and pipelines. These concentrations of counterparties have the potential to affect the Company’s overall exposure to credit risk, either positively or negatively, in that each of these three groups may be affected similarly by changes in economic, industry, or other conditions. LER also has concentrations of credit risk in certain individually significant counterparties. LER closely monitors its credit exposure and, although uncollectible amounts have not been significant, increased counterparty defaults are possible and may result in financial losses and/or capital limitations.Risk management policies, including the use of derivative instruments, may not fully protect LER’s sales and results of operations from volatility and may result in financial losses.In the course of its business, LER enters into contracts to purchase and sell natural gas at fixed prices and index-based prices. Commodity price risk associated with these contracts has the potential to impact earnings and cash flows. To minimize this risk, LER has a risk management policy that provides for daily monitoring of a number of business measures, including fixed price commitments. 17Table of ContentsLER currently manages the commodity price risk associated with fixed-price commitments for the purchase or sale of natural gas by either closely matching the offsetting physical purchase or sale of natural gas at fixed prices or through the use of natural gas futures, options, and swap contracts traded on or cleared through the NYMEX and ICE to lock in margins. These exchange-traded/cleared contracts may be designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted transactions. However, market conditions and regional price changes may cause ineffective portions of matched positions to result in financial losses. Additionally, to the extent that LER’s natural gas contracts are classified as trading activities or do not otherwise qualify for the normal purchases or normal sales designation (or the designation is not elected), the contracts are recorded as derivatives at fair value each period. Accordingly, the associated gains and losses are reported directly in earnings and may cause volatility in results of operations. Gains or losses (realized and unrealized) on certain wholesale purchase and sale contracts, consisting of those classified as trading activities, are required to be presented on a net basis (instead of a gross basis) in the statements of consolidated income. Such presentation could result in reductions to and/or volatility in the Company’s operating revenues.LER’s ability to meet its customers’ natural gas requirements may be impaired if contracted gas supplies and interstate pipeline services are not available or delivered in a timely manner.LER’s ability to deliver natural gas to its customers is contingent upon the ability of natural gas producers, other gas marketers, and interstate pipelines to fulfill their delivery obligations to LER under firm contracts. If these counterparties fail to perform, they have a contractual obligation to reimburse LER for any adverse consequences. LER will attempt to use such reimbursements to obtain the necessary supplies so that LER may fulfill its customer obligations. To the extent that it is unable to obtain the necessary supplies, LER’s financial position and results of operations may be adversely impacted.Regulatory and legislative developments pertaining to the energy industry may adversely impact LER’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.LER’s business is non-regulated in that the rates it charges its customers are not established by or subject to approval by any regulatory body. However, LER is subject to various laws and regulations affecting the energy industry. New regulatory and legislative actions may adversely impact LER’s results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows by potentially reducing customer growth opportunities and/or increasing the costs of doing business.LER could incur additional costs to comply with new laws and regulations, such as the Dodd-Frank Act. In addition, as the regulatory environment for the natural gas industry increases in complexity, the risk of inadvertent noncompliance could also increase. If LER fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, whether existing or new ones, it could be subject to fines, penalties or other enforcement action by the authorities that regulate its operations.Item 1B. Unresolved Staff CommentsNone.