ITEM 1A. Risk Factors The nature of our business activities subjects us to certain hazards and risks. The following is a summary of some of the material risks relating to our business activities. In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report, you should consider carefully the risks and uncertainties described below, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. However, these risks are not the only risks that we face. Our business could also be impacted by additional risks and uncertainties not currently known or that we currently deem to be immaterial. If any of these risks actually occur, they could materially harm our business, financial condition or results of operations and impair our ability to implement business plans or complete development projects as scheduled. In that case, the market price of our limited partner units could decline. Risks Related to Our Business We may not be able to generate sufficient cash from operations to allow us to pay quarterly distributions at current levels following establishment of cash reserves and payment of fees and expenses, including payments to our affiliates. The amount of cash we can distribute on our limited partner units principally depends upon the cash we generate from our operations. Because the cash we generate from operations will fluctuate from quarter to quarter, we may not be able to pay quarterly distributions at the current level for each quarter. Our ability to pay quarterly distributions depends primarily on cash flow, including cash flow from financial reserves and working capital borrowings, and not solely on profitability, which is affected by non-cash items. As a result, we may pay cash distributions during periods when we record losses and may be unable to pay cash distributions during periods when we record net income. Our financial results depend on the demand for the petroleum products that we transport, store and distribute. Any sustained decrease in demand for petroleum products in the markets served by our pipeline and terminals could result in a significant reduction in the volume of products that we transport in our pipeline, store at our marine terminals and distribute through our inland terminals, and thereby reduce our cash flow and our ability to pay cash distributions. Factors that could lead to a decrease in market demand include: • an increase in the market price of petroleum products, which may reduce demand for gasoline and other petroleum products. Market prices for petroleum products are subject to wide fluctuation in response to changes in global and regional supply over which we have no control; • a recession or other adverse economic condition that results in lower spending by consumers and businesses on transportation fuels such as gasoline, aviation fuel and diesel; • higher fuel taxes or other governmental or regulatory actions that increase the cost of the products we handle; • an increase in fuel economy, whether as a result of a shift by consumers to more fuel-efficient vehicles, technological advances by manufacturers or federal or state regulations; and • an increase in the use of alternative fuel sources, such as ethanol, biodiesel, fuel cells and solar, electric and battery-powered engines. Current laws will require a significant increase in the quantity of biofuels such as ethanol and biodiesel used in transportation fuels over the next 15 years. Such increase could have a material impact on the volume of fuels transported on our pipeline or loaded at our terminals. 15 Table of Contents Our business involves many hazards and operational risks, some of which may not be covered by insurance. Our operations are subject to many hazards inherent in the transportation and distribution of petroleum products and ammonia, including weather-related or other natural causes, ruptures, leaks and fires. These risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property and equipment and pollution or other environmental damage, and may result in curtailment or suspension of our related operations. We are not fully insured against all risks incident to our business. In addition, as a result of market conditions, premiums for our insurance policies could increase significantly. In some instances, insurance could become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. If a significant accident or event occurs that is not fully insured, it could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows and our ability to pay cash distributions. Fluctuations in prices of refined petroleum products and natural gas liquids could materially affect our earnings. We generate product sales revenues from our petroleum products blending and fractionation activities, as well as from the sale of product generated by the operation of our pipeline and terminals. We also maintain product inventory related to these activities. Significant fluctuations in market prices of petroleum products could result in losses or lower profits from these activities, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate and our ability to pay cash distributions. We sometimes negotiate agreements with a customer pursuant to which we charge storage rental and throughput fees based on discounted rates plus a variable fee based on a percentage of the net profits from certain trading activities conducted by our customer. We recognize revenues for the variable fees from these agreements at the end of the contract terms. During 2006, 2007 and 2008, we recognized revenues from variable-rate fee agreements of $9.4 million, $2.8 million and $0.9 million, respectively. We may negotiate similar agreements in the future. Our customer’s trading activities, upon which our variable-rate fees are based, involve substantial risks. As a result, our share of the variable-rate revenues from such agreements in future periods could be zero. We hedge prices of refined products by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements, futures contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) or Intercontinental Exchange (“ICE”), options contracts or over-the-counter transactions. These hedging arrangements may not eliminate all price risks, could result in fluctuations in quarterly or annual profits and could result in material cash obligations. We hedge our exposure to price fluctuations with respect to refined products generated from or used in our operations by utilizing physical purchase and sale agreements, futures contracts traded on the NYMEX or ICE, options contracts or over-the-counter transactions. To the extent these hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (as amended) or they result in material amounts of ineffectiveness, we could experience material fluctuations in our quarterly or annual results of operations. In addition, to the extent these hedges are entered into on a public exchange, we may be required to post margin which could result in material cash obligations. Finally, these contracts may be for the purchase or sale of product in markets different from those in which we are attempting to hedge our exposure, resulting in hedges that do not eliminate all price risks. We are exposed to counterparty credit risk. Nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers, vendors or derivative counterparties could reduce our revenues, increase our expenses or otherwise negatively impact our operating results, cash flows and ability to make distributions to our unitholders. We are subject to risks of loss resulting from nonpayment or nonperformance by our customers to whom we extend credit. In addition, nonperformance by vendors who have committed to provide products or services to us could result in higher costs or interfere with the conduct of our business. Furthermore, nonpayment by the counterparties to our interest rate and commodity derivatives could expose us to additional interest rate or 16 Table of Contents commodity price risk. Weak economic conditions and widespread financial stress could reduce the liquidity of our customers, vendors or counterparties, making it more difficult for them to meet their obligations to us. Any substantial increase in the nonpayment and nonperformance by our customers, vendors or counterparties could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. We may not be able to obtain funding at acceptable terms because of the deterioration of the credit and capital markets. This may prevent us from meeting our future capital needs. Global financial markets and economic conditions have been, and continue to be, disrupted and volatile, which has caused a substantial deterioration in the credit and capital markets. These conditions, along with significant write-offs in the financial services sector and the re-pricing of credit risk, could make it difficult to obtain funding for our capital needs. In particular, the cost of raising money in the debt and equity capital markets has increased substantially while the availability of funds from those markets generally has diminished significantly. In addition, as a result of concerns about the stability of financial markets generally and the solvency of counterparties specifically, the cost of obtaining money from the credit markets generally has increased as many lenders and institutional investors have increased interest rates, enacted tighter lending standards, refused to refinance existing debt at maturity at all or on terms similar to existing debt, and reduced and, in some cases, ceased to provide funding to borrowers. If any of our 18 committed lenders under our revolving credit facility were to become unwilling or unable to meet their funding obligations, and if the other committed lenders thereunder were to refuse to provide additional funding to make up the portion of the unfulfilled commitments, we would be unable to use the full borrowing capacity under our revolving credit agreement. Due to these factors, we cannot be certain that funding for our capital needs from credit and capital markets will be available if needed and, to the extent required, on acceptable terms. If funding is not available when needed, or is available only on unfavorable terms, we may be unable to meet our obligations as they come due or be required to substantially reduce our capital expenditures and therefore be unable to expand our existing business, complete acquisitions or otherwise take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. Losses sustained by any money market mutual fund or other investment vehicle in which we invest our cash or the failure of any bank in which we deposit funds could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions. We typically invest any material amount of cash on hand in cash equivalents such as money market mutual funds. These funds are primarily comprised of highly rated short-term instruments; nevertheless, significant market volatility and financial distress can cause such investments to lose value or reduce the liquidity of such investments. We may also maintain deposits at a commercial bank in excess of amounts insured by government agencies such as the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. A failure of our commercial bank could result in our losing such deposits. Any losses we sustain on the investments or deposits of our cash could adversely affect our financial position and our ability to pay cash distributions. Rate regulation or a successful challenge to the rates we charge on our petroleum products pipeline system may reduce the amount of cash we generate. The FERC regulates the tariff rates for interstate movements on our petroleum products pipeline system. Shippers may protest our pipeline tariff filings, and the FERC may investigate new or changed tariff rates. Further, other than for rates set under market-based rate authority, the FERC may order refunds of amounts collected under newly filed rates that are determined by the FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level 17 Table of Contents when taking into consideration our pipeline system’s cost of service. In addition, shippers may challenge by complaint the lawfulness of tariff rates that have become final and effective. The FERC may also investigate such rates absent shipper complaint. If existing rates challenged by complaint are determined by the FERC to be in excess of a just and reasonable level when taking into consideration our pipeline system’s cost of service, the FERC could require the payment of reparations to complaining shippers for up to two years prior to the complaint. The FERC’s ratemaking methodologies may limit our ability to set rates based on our true costs or may delay the use of rates that reflect increased costs. The FERC’s primary ratemaking methodology is price indexing. We use this methodology to establish our rates in approximately 40% of our interstate markets. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates to the new ceiling level by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3%. If the PPI-FG falls, we could be required to reduce our rates that are based on the FERC’s price indexing methodology. The FERC’s indexing methodology is subject to review every five years; the current methodology is expected to remain in place through June 30, 2011. Rate increases made pursuant to the indexing methodology can be challenged by protest and/or complaint. The potential for a challenge to our indexed rates creates the risk that the FERC might find some of our indexed rates to be in excess of a just and reasonable level—that is, a level justified by our cost of service. In such an event, the FERC would order us to reduce any such rates and could require the payment of refunds and/or reparations. We establish rates in approximately 60% of our interstate markets using the FERC’s market-based ratemaking regulations. These regulations allow us to establish rates based on conditions in individual markets without regard to the index or our cost of service. If we were to lose our market-based rate authority, we would then be required to establish rates on some other basis, such as our cost of service. Any reduction in the indexed rates, removal of our ability to establish market-based rates, change in the treatment of income tax allowances or payment of reparations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and reduce the amount of cash we generate. The FERC’s policies regarding income tax allowance and return on equity in cost-of-service based rates could affect the amount of cash we generate. In May 2005, the FERC adopted a policy statement (“Policy Statement”), stating that it would permit entities owning public utility assets, including oil pipelines, to include an income tax allowance in such utilities’ cost-of-service rates to reflect actual or potential tax liability attributable to their public utility income, regardless of the form of ownership. Pursuant to the Policy Statement, a tax pass-through entity seeking such an income tax allowance would have to establish that its partners or members have an actual or potential income tax obligation on the entity’s public utility income. This tax allowance policy was upheld by the D.C. Circuit in May 2007. In December 2006, the FERC issued an order addressing income tax allowance in rates, in which it reaffirmed prior statements regarding its income tax allowance policy, but raised a new issue regarding the implications of the Policy Statement for publicly traded partnerships. The FERC noted that the tax deferral features of a publicly traded partnership may cause some investors to receive, for some indeterminate duration, cash distributions in excess of their taxable income, creating an opportunity for those investors to earn additional return, funded by ratepayers. Responding to this concern, FERC adjusted the equity rate of return of the pipeline at issue downward based on the percentage by which the publicly traded partnership’s cash flow exceeded taxable income. Requests for rehearing of the order are currently pending before the FERC. Whether a pipeline’s owners have actual or potential income tax liability will be reviewed by the FERC on a case-by-case basis. Although the FERC’s current income tax allowance policy is generally favorable for pipelines that are organized as pass-through entities, it still entails rate risks due to the case-by-case review requirement. How the Policy Statement is applied in practice to pipelines owned by publicly traded partnerships could impose limits on our ability to include a full income tax allowance in cost of service. 18 Table of Contents The FERC instituted a rulemaking proceeding in July 2007 to determine whether any changes should be made to the FERC’s methodology for determining natural gas and oil pipeline equity returns to be included in cost-of-service based rates. The FERC determined that it would retain its current methodology for determining return on equity but that, when stock prices and cash distributions of tax pass-through entities are used in the return on equity calculations, the growth forecasts for those entities should be reduced by 50%. Despite the FERC’s determination, some complainants in rate proceedings have advocated that the FERC disallow the full use of cash distributions in the return on equity calculation. If the FERC were to disallow the use of full cash distributions in the return on equity calculation, such a result might adversely affect our ability to achieve a reasonable return. Changes in price levels could negatively impact our revenues, our expenses or both, which could adversely affect our results from operations, our liquidity and our ability to pay quarterly distributions. The operation of our assets and the implementation of our growth strategy require significant expenditures for labor, materials, property, equipment and services. Increases in the price levels of these items could increase our expenses or capital costs. We may not be able to pass through these increased costs to our customers in the form of higher fees for our services. We use the FERC’s PPI-based price indexing methodology to establish tariff rates in approximately 40% of the interstate markets served by our petroleum products pipeline system. The indexing method allows a pipeline to increase its rates by a percentage equal to the change in the PPI-FG plus 1.3%. This methodology could result in changes in our revenues that do not fully reflect changes in the costs we incur to operate and maintain our petroleum products pipeline system. For example, our costs could increase more quickly or by a greater amount than the PPI-FG index plus 1.3% currently used by the FERC methodology. Further, in periods of general price deflation, the PPI-FG index could fall, in which case we could be required to reduce our index-based rates, even if the actual costs we incur to operate our assets increase. Changes in price levels that lead to decreases in our revenues or increases in the prices we pay to operate and maintain our assets could adversely affect our results of operations, liquidity and ability to pay distributions. Competition could lead to lower levels of profits and reduce the amount of cash we generate. We face competition from other pipelines and terminals in the same markets as our assets. Our customers demand delivery of products on tight time schedules and in a number of geographic markets. If our quality of service declines or we cannot meet the demands of our customers, they may utilize the services of our competitors. Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the environmental and operational safety aspects of our operations which could increase our costs and liabilities. Each of our operating segments is subject to the risk of incurring substantial costs and liabilities under environmental and safety laws and regulations. These costs and liabilities arise under increasingly stringent environmental and safety laws, including regulations and governmental enforcement policies, and as a result of claims for damages to property or persons arising from our operations. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens and, to a lesser extent, issuance of injunctions to limit or cease operations. If we were unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our ability to meet our financial obligations and pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. The terminal and pipeline facilities that comprise our petroleum products pipeline system have been used for many years to transport, distribute or store petroleum products. Over time our operations, or operations by our predecessors or third parties not under our control, may have resulted in the disposal or release of hydrocarbons or solid wastes at or from these terminal properties and along such pipeline rights-of-way. In addition, some of 19 Table of Contents our terminals and pipelines are located on or near current or former refining and terminal sites, and there is a risk that contamination is present on those sites. We may be subject to strict, joint and several liability under a number of these environmental laws and regulations for such disposal and releases of hydrocarbons or solid wastes or the existence of contamination, even in circumstances where such activities or conditions were caused by third parties not under our control or were otherwise lawful at the time they occurred. Further, the transportation of hazardous materials in our pipelines may result in environmental damage, including accidental releases that may cause death or injuries to humans, third-party damage, natural resource damages, and/or result in federal and/or state civil and/or criminal penalties that could be material to our results of operations and cash flows. Our operations may incur substantial liabilities to comply with climate change legislation and regulatory initiatives. Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, commonly referred to as “greenhouse gases” and including carbon dioxide and methane, may be contributing to warming of the Earth’s atmosphere. In response to such studies, the U.S. Congress is actively considering legislation to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, at least one-third of the states, either individually or through multi-state regional initiatives, have already taken legal measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases, primarily through the planned development of greenhouse gas emission inventories and/or greenhouse gas cap and trade programs. As an alternative to reducing emission of greenhouse gases under cap and trade programs, Congress may consider the implementation of a program to tax the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. The EPA is separately considering whether it will regulate greenhouse gases as “air pollutants” under the existing federal Clean Air Act. Passage of climate change legislation or other regulatory initiatives by Congress or various states of the U.S. or the adoption of regulations by the EPA or analogous state agencies that regulate or restrict emissions of greenhouse gases in areas in which we conduct business could result in changes to the demand for the products we store, transport and distribute, and could increase the costs of our operations, including costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our greenhouse gas emissions, pay any taxes related to our greenhouse gas emissions and administer and manage a greenhouse gas emissions program. We may be unable to recover any such lost revenues or increased costs in the rates we charge our customers, and any such recovery may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC and the provisions of any final legislation or regulations. Reductions in our revenues or increases in our expenses as a result of climate control initiatives could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Many of our storage tanks and significant portions of our pipeline system have been in service for several decades. Our pipeline and storage assets are generally long-lived assets. As a result, some of those assets have been in service for many decades. The age and condition of these assets could result in increased maintenance or remediation expenditures. Any significant increase in these expenditures could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. We depend on refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by others to supply our pipelines and terminals. We depend on connections with refineries and petroleum products pipelines owned and operated by third parties as a significant source of supply for our facilities. Outages at these refineries or reduced or interrupted throughput on these pipelines because of weather-related or other natural causes, testing, line repair, damage, reduced operating pressures or other causes could result in our being unable to deliver products to our customers from our terminals or receive products for storage or reduce shipments on our pipelines and could adversely affect our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions. 20 Table of Contents The closure of refineries that supply our petroleum products pipeline system could result in disruptions or reductions in the volumes we transport and the amount of cash we generate. The EPA has adopted requirements that require refineries to install equipment to lower the sulfur content of gasoline and some diesel fuel they produce. The requirements relating to gasoline took effect in 2004, and the requirements relating to diesel fuel are being implemented through 2010. If refinery owners that use our petroleum pipeline system determine that compliance with these new requirements is too costly, they may close some of these refineries. In addition, the downturn in the U.S. and global economy has resulted in lower demand for refined petroleum products and has placed additional pressures on the profitability of refiners. A period of sustained weak demand and low profit margins may make refining uneconomic for some refineries, including those located along our petroleum products pipeline system. The closure of a refinery that delivers product to our petroleum products pipeline system could reduce the volumes we transport and the amount of cash we generate. Mergers among our customers and competitors could result in lower volumes being shipped on our pipelines or products stored in or distributed through our terminals, thereby reducing the amount of cash we generate. Mergers between our existing customers and our competitors could provide strong economic incentives for the combined entities to utilize their existing systems instead of ours in those markets where the systems compete. As a result, we could lose some or all of the volumes and associated revenues from these customers and we could experience difficulty in replacing those lost volumes and revenues. Because most of our operating costs are fixed, a reduction in volumes would result not only in less revenue, but also a decline in cash flow of a similar magnitude, which would reduce our ability to pay cash distributions. Potential future acquisitions and expansions, if any, may affect our business by substantially increasing the level of our indebtedness and liabilities and increasing our risk of being unable to effectively integrate these new operations. From time to time, we evaluate and acquire assets and businesses that we believe complement our existing assets and businesses. Acquisitions may require substantial capital or the incurrence of substantial indebtedness. If we consummate any future acquisitions, our capitalization and results of operations may change significantly. Acquisitions and business expansions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in the assimilation of the assets and operations of the acquired businesses, inefficiencies and difficulties that arise because of unfamiliarity with new assets and the businesses associated with them and new geographic areas and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. Further, unexpected costs and challenges may arise whenever businesses with different operations or management are combined, and we may experience unanticipated delays in realizing the benefits of an acquisition. Following an acquisition, we may discover previously unknown liabilities associated with the acquired business for which we have no recourse under applicable indemnification provisions. Our expansion projects may not immediately produce operating cash flows and may exceed our cost estimates. We have begun or anticipate beginning numerous expansion projects which will require us to make significant capital investments. We will incur financing costs during the planning and construction phases of these projects; however, the operating cash flows we expect these projects to generate will not materialize until some time after the projects are completed. The amount of time and investment necessary to complete these projects could exceed the estimates we used when determining whether to undertake them. For example, we must compete with other companies for the materials and construction services required to complete these projects, and competition for these materials or services could result in significant delays and/or cost overruns. Any such cost overruns or unanticipated delays in the completion or commercial development of these projects could reduce our liquidity and our ability to pay cash distributions. 21 Table of Contents Our business is subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations that govern the product quality specifications of the petroleum products that we store and transport. Petroleum products that we store and transport are sold by our customers for consumption into the public market. Various federal, state and local agencies have the authority to prescribe specific product quality specifications to commodities sold into the public market. Changes in product quality specifications or blending requirements could reduce our throughput volume, require us to incur additional handling costs or require capital expenditures. For instance, different product specifications for different markets impact the fungibility of the products in our system and could require the construction of additional storage. If we are unable to recover these costs through increased revenues, our cash flows and ability to pay cash distributions could be adversely affected. In addition, changes in the product quality of the products we receive on our petroleum products pipeline system could reduce or eliminate our ability to blend products. Terrorist attacks that are aimed at our facilities or that impact our customers or the markets we serve could adversely affect our business. Since the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks, the United States government has issued warnings that energy assets in general, and the nation’s pipeline and terminal infrastructure in particular, may be future targets of terrorist organizations. The threat of terrorist attacks has subjected our operations to increased risks. Any future terrorist attack on our facilities, those of our customers and, in some cases, those of other pipelines, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Similarly, any future terrorist attacks that severely disrupt the markets we serve could adversely affect our results of operations, financial position or cash flows, as well as our ability to pay cash distributions. High natural gas prices can increase ammonia production costs and reduce the amount of ammonia transported through our ammonia pipeline system. The profitability of our ammonia customers partially depends on the price of natural gas, which is the principal raw material used in the production of ammonia. An extended period of high natural gas prices may cause our customers to produce and ship lower volumes of ammonia, which could adversely affect our cash flows. Rising short-term interest rates could increase our financing costs and reduce the amount of cash we generate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $70.0 million of floating rate borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility. We intend to use the floating rate facility to facilitate expansion capital spending in 2009. As a result, we have exposure to changes in short-term interest rates. Rising short-term rates could reduce the amount of cash we generate and adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. Restrictions contained in our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility. We are subject to restrictions with respect to our debt that may limit our flexibility in structuring or refinancing existing or future debt and prevent us from engaging in certain beneficial transactions. These restrictions include, among other provisions, the maintenance of certain financial ratios, as well as limitations on our ability to incur additional indebtedness, to grant liens, to sell assets or to repay existing debt without penalties. These restrictions could result in higher costs of borrowing and impair our ability to generate additional cash. In addition, a change in control of our general partner could, under certain circumstances, result in our debt becoming due and payable. Our financial reporting is subject to rules promulgated primarily by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC. Changes in these rules could result in our incurring increased costs, as well as in material changes to our financial statements and related disclosures. Rule changes promulgated by the FASB or SEC could result in significant changes to our current financial reporting policies and procedures. For example, the SEC’s proposed rule under Release No. 33-9005, Roadmap 22 Table of Contents for the Potential Use of Financial Statements Prepared in Accordance With International Financial Reporting Standards by U.S. Issuers could result in our being required to file financial statements that conform to international financial accounting standards rather than U.S. generally accepted accounting standards. The costs to convert to international standards could be material and could result in material changes to our reported financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Similarly, in Emerging Issue Task Force (“EITF”) Issue No. 04-7, Application of the Two-Class Method under FASB Statement No. 128, Earnings per Share, to Master Limited Partnerships, FASB required a change in the methodology by which we allocate income between our general and limited partners. We adopted this EITF on January 1, 2009. Had this EITF been in effect for 2008, our reported basic and diluted earnings per unit would have increased by $0.49, or 15%. Material changes in our reported earnings per unit could influence our unit price. Risks Related to Our Partnership Structure Cost reimbursements due our general partner may be substantial and could reduce our cash available for distribution. Prior to making any distribution on our limited partner units, we reimburse our general partner and its affiliates, including officers and directors of our general partner, for expenses they incur on our behalf. These reimbursements could adversely affect our ability to pay cash distributions. Our general partner has sole discretion to determine the amount of its expenses which must be reimbursed. In addition, our general partner and its affiliates may provide us other services for which we will be charged fees as determined by our general partner. Our general partner’s absolute discretion in determining the level of cash reserves may adversely affect our ability to make cash distributions to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement requires our general partner to deduct from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are necessary to fund our future operating expenditures. In addition, the partnership agreement permits our general partner to reduce available cash by establishing cash reserves for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future distributions to partners. These cash reserves will affect the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Potential conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner, its affiliates and us. Our general partner and its affiliates have limited fiduciary duties to us and our unitholders, which may permit them to favor their own interests to the detriment of us and our unitholders. Conflicts of interest may arise among our general partner and it affiliates, including MGG, on the one hand, and us and our unitholders, on the other hand. The directors and officers of our general partner have fiduciary duties to manage us in a manner beneficial to us and our limited partners. At the same time, our general partner has a fiduciary duty to manage us in a manner beneficial to MGG, the owner of our general partner, and its affiliates. The board of directors of our general partner will resolve any such conflict and has broad latitude to consider the interests of all parties to the conflict. As a result of these conflicts, our general partner may favor its own interests and the interests of its affiliates over the interests of our unitholders. These conflicts may include, among others, the following: • our general partner is allowed to take into account the interests of parties other than us, including MGG, and their respective affiliates, in resolving conflicts of interest, which has the effect of limiting its fiduciary duty to our unitholders; • our general partner determines whether or not we incur debt and that decision may affect our credit ratings; 23 Table of Contents • our general partner has limited its liability and reduced its fiduciary duties under the partnership agreement, while also restricting the remedies available to our unitholders for actions that, without these limitations, might constitute breaches of fiduciary duty; • our general partner determines the amount and timing of our investment transactions, borrowings, issuances of additional partnership securities and reserves, each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner, through its ownership of our incentive distribution rights, is entitled to receive increasing percentages, up to a maximum of 48%, of any incremental cash we distribute per limited partner unit, which could reduce our ability to complete accretive transactions or otherwise increase the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders; • our general partner determines which costs incurred by it and its affiliates are reimbursable by us; • our partnership agreement does not restrict our general partner from causing us to pay it or its affiliates for any services rendered, or from entering into additional contractual arrangements with any of these entities on our behalf, so long as the terms of any such additional contractual arrangements are fair and reasonable to us; • our general partner controls the enforcement of obligations owed to us by it and its affiliates; • our general partner decides whether to retain separate counsel, accountants or others to perform services for us; • our general partner determines the allocation of shared overhead expenses to MGG and us; and • our general partner interprets and enforces contractual obligations between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and MGG, on the other hand. All of our executive officers face conflicts in the allocation of their time to our business. Our general partner shares officers and administrative personnel with MGG’s general partner to operate both our business and MGG’s business. Our general partner’s officers, several of whom are also officers of MGG’s general partner, will allocate the time they and the other employees of MGG’s general partner spend on our behalf and on behalf of MGG. These officers face conflicts regarding the allocation of their and other employees’ time, which may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. These allocations may not necessarily be the result of arms-length negotiations between our general partner and MGG’s general partner. Changes in the composition of our board of directors could impact our business strategies. We are a limited partnership and do not have our own board of directors. We are managed and operated by the officers of, and are subject to the oversight of the board of directors of, our general partner. The total number of directors on our general partner’s board of directors is currently set at eight and there are four vacancies. When these vacancies are filled, the composition of our general partner’s board of directors will change, resulting in new directors that may not continue with previous business strategies. Our unit purchase rights plan may make it more difficult for others to obtain control of us. We currently have a unit purchase rights plan, commonly referred to as a “poison pill”, in place. This poison pill will cause substantial dilution to the ownership of a person or group that attempts to acquire us on terms not approved by our general partner’s board of directors, and may have the effect of deterring future takeover attempts. The practical effect of a poison pill is to require a party seeking control of us to negotiate with our general partner’s board of directors, which could delay or prevent a change in control of us and the replacement or removal of management. This poison pill, coupled with other antitakeover provisions in our partnership 24 Table of Contents agreement and under Delaware law, could discourage a future takeover attempt which individual unitholders might deem to be in their best interests or in which unitholders would receive a premium for their units over current prices. MGG also has a unit purchase rights plan. Tax Risks to Common Unitholders Our tax treatment depends on our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, as well as our not being subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation by individual states. If the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) were to treat us as a corporation or if we become subject to a material amount of entity-level taxation for state tax purposes, it would reduce the amount of cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The anticipated after-tax economic benefit of an investment in our limited partner units depends largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes. Although we do not believe based upon our current operations that we are so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purpose or otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity. If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax rate, which is currently a maximum of 35%, and would likely pay state income tax at varying rates. Distributions to our unitholders would generally be taxed again as corporate distributions, and no income, gains, losses or deductions would flow through to our unitholders. Because a tax would be imposed upon us as a corporation, our cash available for distribution to our unitholders would be substantially reduced. Therefore, treatment of us as a corporation would result in a material reduction in the anticipated cash flow and after-tax return to our unitholders, likely causing a substantial reduction in the value of our limited partner units. Current law may change causing us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or otherwise subject us to entity-level taxation. In addition, because of widespread state budget deficits and other reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise and other forms of taxation. For example, we are required to pay Texas franchise tax at a rate of 1% of our net revenue apportioned to Texas in the prior year. Imposition of such a tax on us by Texas and, if applicable, any other state will reduce the cash available for distribution to our unitholders. Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal income tax purposes, the target distribution amounts will be adjusted to reflect the impact of that law on us. The tax treatment of our structure could be subject to potential legislative, judicial or administrative changes and differing interpretations, possibly on a retroactive basis. The federal income tax treatment of common unitholders depends in some instances on determinations of fact and interpretations of complex provisions of federal income tax law. The federal income tax rules are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS and the U.S. Treasury Department, frequently resulting in revised interpretations of established concepts, statutory changes, revisions to Treasury regulations and other modifications and interpretations. The IRS pays close attention to the proper application of tax laws to partnerships. The present federal income tax treatment of an investment in our limited partner units may be modified by administrative, legislative or judicial interpretation at any time. Any modification to the federal income tax laws and interpretations thereof may or may not be applied retroactively and could make it more difficult or impossible to meet the exception for us to be treated as a partnership for federal income tax purposes that is not taxable as a corporation (referred to as the “Qualifying Income 25 Table of Contents Exception”), affect or cause us to change our business activities, affect the tax considerations of an investment in us, change the character or treatment of portions of our income and adversely affect an investment in our common units. For example, in response to recent public offerings of interests in the management operations of private equity funds and hedge funds, members of Congress have considered substantive changes to the definition of qualifying income under Section 7704 of the Internal Revenue Code which could change the characterization of certain types of income received from partnerships. Although the legislation would not have applied to us as currently proposed, we are unable to predict whether any of these changes or other proposals will be reintroduced or will ultimately be enacted. Any such changes could negatively impact the value of an investment in our limited partner units and the amount of cash available to pay as distributions to our unitholders. If the IRS contests the federal income tax positions we take, the market for our limited partner units may be adversely impacted and the cost of any IRS contest will reduce our cash available for distribution to our unitholders. The IRS has made no determination as to our status as a partnership for federal income tax purposes. The IRS may adopt positions that differ from the positions we take. It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to sustain some or all of the positions we take. A court may not agree with some or all of our counsel’s conclusions or positions we take. Any contest with the IRS may materially and adversely impact the market for our limited partner units and the price at which they trade. In addition, our costs of any contest with the IRS will be borne indirectly by our unitholders and our general partner because the costs will reduce our cash available for distribution. Our unitholders may be required to pay taxes on their share of our income even if they do not receive any cash distributions from us. Because our unitholders will be treated as partners to whom we will allocate taxable income which could be different in amount than the cash we distribute, our unitholders will be required to pay any federal income taxes and, in some cases, state and local income taxes on their share of our taxable income even if they receive no cash distributions from us. Our unitholders may not receive cash distributions from us equal to their share of our taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that results from that income. Tax gain or loss on disposition of our limited partner units could be more or less than expected. If our unitholders sell their limited partner units, they will recognize a gain or loss equal to the difference between the amount realized and their tax basis in those limited partner units. Prior distributions to our unitholders in excess of the total net taxable income they were allocated for a limited partner unit, which decreased their tax basis in that limited partner unit, will, in effect, become taxable income to our unitholders if the limited partner unit is sold at a price greater than their tax basis in that limited partner unit, even if the price they receive is less than their original cost. A substantial portion of the amount realized, whether or not representing gain, may be ordinary income. In addition, if our unitholders sell their units, they may incur a tax liability in excess of the amount of cash received from the sale. Tax-exempt entities and foreign persons face unique tax issues from owning our limited partner units that may result in adverse tax consequences to them. Investment in limited partner units by tax-exempt entities, such as individual retirement accounts (known as IRAs), and foreign persons raises issues unique to them. For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations that are exempt from federal income tax, including IRAs and other retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be taxable to them. Distributions to foreign persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at the highest applicable effective tax rate, and foreign persons will be required to file United States federal tax returns and pay tax on their share of our taxable income. Tax exempt entities or foreign persons should consult their tax advisor before investing in our limited partner units. 26 Table of Contents We will treat each purchaser of limited partner units as having the same tax benefits without regard to the actual limited partner units purchased. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of the limited partner units. Primarily because we cannot match transferors and transferees of limited partner units, we will adopt depreciation and amortization positions that may not conform to all aspects of existing Treasury regulations. A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the amount of tax benefits available to our unitholders. It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain from the sale of limited partner units and could have a negative impact on the value of our limited partner units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. We prorate our items of income, gain, loss and deduction between transferors and transferees of our units each month based upon the ownership of our units on the first day of each month, instead of on the basis of the date a particular unit is transferred. The use of this proration method may not be permitted under existing Treasury regulations. If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury regulations were issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders. A unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of those units. If so, he would no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan and may recognize gain or loss from the disposition. Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a “short seller” to cover a short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition. Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income. Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from borrowing their units. We have adopted certain valuation methodologies that may result in a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between the general partner and limited partners. The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could adversely affect the value of our common units. When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our limited partners and general partner. Our methodology may be viewed as understating the value of our assets. In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be unfavorable to such unitholders. Moreover, under our current valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) adjustment allocated to our tangible assets and a lesser portion allocated to our intangible assets. The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between our general partner and limited partners. A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our unitholders. It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders’ sale of common units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or result in audit adjustments to our unitholders’ tax returns without the benefit of additional deductions. 27 Table of Contents The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profit interests during any twelve-month period will result in the termination of our partnership for federal income tax purposes. We will be considered to have terminated for federal income tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period. For purposes of determining whether the 50% threshold has been met, multiple sales of the same unit will be counted only once. Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal year and could result in a significant deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in computing our taxable income. In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in his taxable income for the year of termination. Our termination currently would not affect our classification as a partnership for federal income tax purposes, but instead, we would be treated as a new partnership for tax purposes. If treated as a new partnership, we must make new tax elections and could be subject to penalties if we are unable to determine that a termination occurred. Our unitholders may be subject to state and local taxes and return filing requirements in states where they do not live as a result of investing in our limited partner units. In addition to federal income taxes, our unitholders may be subject to other taxes, including state and local taxes, unincorporated business taxes and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various jurisdictions in which we do business or own property, even if they do not live in any of those jurisdictions. Our unitholders may be required to file state and local income tax returns and pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various jurisdictions. Further, our unitholders may be subject to penalties for failure to comply with those requirements. We currently own assets and conduct business in 22 states, most of which impose a personal income tax. As we make acquisitions or expand our business, we may own assets or conduct business in additional states that impose a personal income tax. It is our unitholders’ responsibility to file all United States federal, state and local tax returns. ITEM 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. 