ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are a number of factors, many beyond our control, which may cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below. Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more other factors, have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. Insurance market conditions may alter the effectiveness of our current business strategy and impact our revenues. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive. We compete with large national property and casualty insurance companies, locally-based specialty companies, self-insured entities and alternative risk transfer mechanisms (such as captive insurers and risk retention groups) whose activities are directed to limited markets in which they have extensive knowledge. Competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do, hospitals purchasing physician practices, as well as mutual companies and similar companies not owned by shareholders whose return on equity objectives may be lower than ours. Competition in the property and casualty insurance business is based on many factors, including premiums charged and other terms and conditions of coverage, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, claims services, reputation, geographic scope, local presence, agent and client relationships, financial strength and the experience of the insurance company in the line of insurance to be written. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business at current premium levels, impact our market share and reduce the profits that would otherwise arise from operations. Our operating results and financial condition may be affected if actual insured losses differ from our loss reserves. We establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing our estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Our largest liability is our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Due to the size of our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses, even a small percentage adjustment to our reserve can have a material effect on our results of operations for the period in which the change is made. The process of estimating loss reserves is complex. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss by the insured and payment of that loss. Ultimate loss costs, even for claims with similar characteristics, can vary significantly depending upon many factors, including but not limited to, the nature of the claim and the personal situation of the claimant or the claimant’s family, the outcome of jury trials, the legislative and judicial climate where the insured event occurred, general economic conditions and, for MPL claims, the trend of healthcare costs. Consequently, the loss cost estimation process requires actuarial skill and the application of judgment, and such estimates require periodic revision. As part of the reserving process, we review the known facts surrounding reported claims as well as historical claims data and consider the impact of various factors such as: • for reported claims, the nature of the claim and the jurisdiction in which the claim occurred; • trends in paid and incurred loss development; • trends in claim frequency and severity; • emerging economic and social trends; • trend of healthcare costs for MPL claims; • inflation; and • changes in the regulatory legal and political environment. 15 Table of Contents This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate, but not necessarily accurate, basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. Our loss reserves also may be affected by court decisions that expand liability on our policies after they have been issued and priced. In addition, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of our insureds could require us to pay large sums of money in excess of our reserved amounts. Due to uncertainties inherent in the jury system, each case that is litigated to a jury verdict increases our risk of incurring a loss that has a material adverse affect on reserves. To the extent loss reserves prove to be inadequate to meet future claim payments, we would incur a charge to earnings in the period the reserves are increased. We purchase reinsurance to mitigate the effect of large losses. Our receivable from reinsurers on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represents our estimate of the amount of our reserve for losses that will be recoverable under our reinsurance programs. We base our estimate of funds recoverable upon our expectation of ultimate losses and the portion of those losses that we estimate to be allocable to reinsurers based upon the terms of our reinsurance agreements. Given the uncertainty of the ultimate amounts of our losses, our estimates of losses and related amounts recoverable may vary significantly from the eventual outcome. Also, we estimate premiums ceded under reinsurance agreements wherein the premium due to the reinsurer, subject to certain maximums and minimums, is based in part on losses reimbursed or to be reimbursed under the agreement. Due to the size of our reinsurance balances, an adjustment to these estimates or our inability to collect a reinsurance receivable could have a material effect on our results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is made. Any adjustments are reflected in then-current operations. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance. We may be unable to maintain current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would need to reduce the amount of our underwritten risk. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion or at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We transfer part of our risks to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although our reinsurance agreements make the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, the liability to our policyholders remains our responsibility. If reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results and/or cash flows would be adversely affected. At December 31, 2011 our Receivable from Reinsurers on Unpaid Losses is $247.7 million and our Receivable from Reinsurers on Paid Losses is $4.2 million. Our claims handling practices could result in a bad faith claim against us. We have been, from time-to-time, sued for allegedly acting in bad faith during our handling of a claim. The damages claimed in actions for bad faith may include amounts owed by the insured in excess of the policy limits as well as consequential and punitive damages. Awards above policy limits are possible whenever a case is taken to trial. These actions have the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 16 Table of Contents Changes in healthcare policy could have a material effect on our operations. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010, otherwise known as the Healthcare Reform Act, was passed and signed into law in March 2010. While the primary provisions of the Healthcare Reform Act do not appear to directly affect our business, specific regulations to implement the law are still being written. The Healthcare Reform Act is expected to have a significant impact on the practice of medicine in future years and could have unanticipated or indirect effects on our business or alter the risk and cost environments in which we and our insureds operate. Included among these risks are: (i) reduced operating margins may cause physicians and hospitals to join in larger groupings which are more likely to utilize self-insured solutions for MPL insurance products; and (ii) the possibility that the use of electronic medical records will lead to additional medical malpractice litigation or increase the cost of litigation. Conversely, it is anticipated that there will be growth in the number of ancillary healthcare providers that will become customers for MPL products. Ongoing legal challenges may reverse all or a portion of the Healthcare Reform Act. Further, legislative changes may be enacted that repeal or substantially alter the Healthcare Reform Act prior to its full implementation. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effect that the Healthcare Reform Act or future related legislation will have on our insureds or our business. Changes due to recent financial reform legislation could have a material effect on our operations. The Dodd-Frank Act was passed and signed into law in July 2010. The provisions of the bill do not appear to directly affect our operations; however, the bill establishes new regulatory oversight of financial institutions. As detailed regulations are developed to implement the provisions of the bill, there may be changes in the regulatory environment that affect the way we conduct our operations or the cost of regulatory compliance, or both. We are unable to predict with any certainty the effect that the Dodd-Frank Act or future related legislation will have on our insureds or our business. The passage of tort reform or other legislation, and the subsequent review of such laws by the courts could have a material impact on our operations. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim, and limiting venue or court selection. A number of states in which we do business, notably Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Missouri, Ohio, Texas, and West Virginia, enacted tort reform legislation in the previous decade as a response to a rapid deterioration in loss trends. The statutes in Georgia and Illinois were overturned in 2010. We cannot predict with any certainty how other state appellate courts will rule on these laws. While the effects of tort reform have been generally beneficial to our business in states where these laws have been enacted, there can be no assurance that such reforms will be ultimately upheld by the courts. Further, if tort reforms are effective, the business of providing professional liability insurance may become more attractive, thereby causing an increase in competition. In addition, the enactment of tort reforms could be accompanied by legislation or regulatory actions that may be detrimental to our business because of expected benefits which may or may not be realized. These expectations could result in regulatory or legislative action limiting the ability of professional liability insurers to maintain rates at adequate levels. Coverage mandates or other expanded insurance requirements could also be imposed. States may also consider state sponsored MPL insurance entities that could remove some physicians from the private insurance market. We continue to monitor developments on a state-by-state basis, and make business decisions accordingly. 17 Table of Contents A significant amount of our business is concentrated in certain states so that our performance is dependent on the business, economic, regulatory and legislative conditions in those states. Our top five states, Alabama, Texas, Ohio, Florida and Michigan, represented 46% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2011. Moreover, on a combined basis, Alabama, Texas and Ohio accounted for 33%, 28%, and 32% of our gross premiums written for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Because of these concentrations, unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in any of these states could have a disproportionately greater effect on us than they would if we were less geographically concentrated. We may be unable to identify future strategic acquisitions or expected benefits from completed and proposed acquisitions may not be achieved or may be delayed longer than expected. Our corporate strategy anticipates growth through the acquisition of other companies or books of business. However, such expansion is opportunistic and sporadic, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to identify strategic acquisition targets in the future. Additionally, if we are able to identify a strategic target for acquisition, state insurance regulation concerning change or acquisition of control could delay or prevent us from growing through acquisitions. State insurance regulatory codes provide that the acquisition of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that directly or indirectly controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the domiciliary insurance regulator. There is no assurance that we will receive such approval from the respective insurance regulator. When we are able to complete an acquisition there is no guarantee that the expected benefits will be achieved as planned. The process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Potential problems that may arise include, among other reasons, business disruption, loss of customers and employees, the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices, the increase in the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time until stable trends reestablish themselves within the combined organization, diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges, the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees, increased operating costs or inability to achieve cost savings, and the assumption of greater than expected liabilities. There is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. If we are unable to maintain favorable financial strength ratings, it may be more difficult for us to write new business or renew our existing business. Independent rating agencies assess and rate the claims paying ability and the financial strength of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Periodically the rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of previously assigned ratings. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder and debt obligations and are not directed toward the protection of equity investors. Ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of equity securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell our equity securities. Our principal operating subsidiaries hold favorable claims paying ratings with A.M. Best, Fitch and Moody’s. Claims paying ratings are used by agents and customers as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. If our financial position deteriorates or the rating agencies significantly change the rating criteria that are used to determine ratings, we may not maintain our favorable financial strength ratings from the rating agencies. A downgrade or involuntary withdrawal of any such rating could limit or prevent us from writing desirable business. 18 Table of Contents The following table presents the claims paying ratings of our group and our core subsidiaries as of February 14, 2012: Rating Agency A.M. Best(www.ambest.com) Fitch(www.fitchratings.com) Moody’s(www.moodys.com) ProAssurance Group A (Excellent) A (Strong) A3 ProAssurance Indemnity Company, Inc. A (Excellent) A (Strong) A3 ProAssurance Casualty Co. A (Excellent) A (Strong) A3 ProAssurance Specialty Insurance Company, Inc. A (Excellent) A (Strong) NR Podiatry Insurance Company of America A (Excellent) A (Strong) A3 PACO Assurance Company, Inc. A-(Excellent) A (Strong) NR ProAssurance National Capital Insurance Co. A-(Excellent) A (Strong) NR Four rating agencies evaluate and rate our ability to service current debt and potential debt. These financial strength ratings reflect each agency’s independent evaluation of our ability to meet our obligation to holders of our debt. While these ratings may be of greater interest to investors than our claims paying ratings, these are not ratings of our equity securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell our equity securities. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of independent agents. We depend in part on the services of independent agents in the marketing of our insurance products. We face competition from other insurance companies for the services and allegiance of independent agents. These agents may choose to direct business to competing insurance companies. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more senior executives. We are heavily dependent upon our senior management, and the loss of services of our senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of key employees or senior managers, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. Our Board regularly reviews succession planning relating to our Chief Executive Officer as well as other senior officers. Mr. Starnes, our Chief Executive Officer, has indicated to the Board that he has no immediate plans for retirement. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and state insurance law may impede attempts to replace or remove management or may impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. We currently have no preferred stock outstanding, and no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock. In addition, our Corporate Governance Principles provide that the Board, subject to its fiduciary duties, will not issue any series of preferred stock for any defense or anti-takeover purpose, for the purpose of implementing any stockholders rights plan, or with features intended to make any acquisition more difficult or costly without obtaining stockholder approval. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by the Board in its sole discretion, the rights and preferences of any such preferred stock may be superior to those of our common stock and thus may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. 19 Table of Contents The voting structure of common stock and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation are intended to encourage a person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, the Board in connection with a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage our future acquisition, including an acquisition in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, state insurance laws provide that no person or entity may directly or indirectly acquire control of an insurance company unless that person or entity has received approval from the insurance regulator. An acquisition of control of ProAssurance would be presumed if any person or entity acquires 10% (5% in Alabama) or more of our outstanding common stock, unless the applicable insurance regulator determines otherwise. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by stockholders. We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions. We are a holding company whose principal source of funds is cash dividends and other permitted payments from operating subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries are unable to make payments to us, or are able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to make payments on our indebtedness, meet other holding company financial obligations, or pay dividends to shareholders. The payment of dividends by these operating subsidiaries is subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile, as discussed in Item 1 Insurance Regulatory Matters. Regulatory requirements or changes to regulatory requirements could have a material effect on our operations. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of policyholders rather than shareholders. In addition to the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made to a holding company by insurance subsidiaries, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to: • licensing requirements; • trade practices; • capital and surplus requirements; • investment practices; and • rates charged to insurance customers. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate changes or other actions that we may desire to take in order to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us in a variety of matters such as acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of affiliated transactions. Also, certain states sponsor MPL insurance entities which affects the amount and type of MPL coverages purchased by healthcare providers in the sponsoring state. Changes to the number of state sponsored entities of this type could result in a large number of healthcare practitioners changing the amount and type of coverage purchased from private insurance entities such as ProAssurance. The guaranty fund assessments that we are required to pay to state guaranty associations may increase and results of operations and financial condition could suffer as a result. Each state in which we operate has separate insurance guaranty fund laws requiring admitted property and casualty insurance companies doing business within their respective jurisdictions to be members of their guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay covered claims (as defined and limited by the various guaranty association statutes) under insurance policies issued by insurance companies that have become insolvent. Most guaranty association laws enable the associations to make assessments against member insurers to obtain funds to pay covered claims after a member insurer becomes insolvent. These 20 Table of Contents associations levy assessments (up to prescribed limits) on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the covered lines of business in that state. Maximum assessments generally vary between 1% and 2% of annual premiums written by a member in that state, although one notable exception occurred in Florida in 2006, when the state assessed all property casualty insurers a total of 4% of their non-property premiums to offset bankruptcies caused by hurricane claims. Some states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through surcharges on policyholders or through full or partial premium tax offsets, while other states permit recovery of assessments through the rate filing process. In 2011 and 2010, guaranty fund refunds and recoupments exceeded current year assessments by $0.1 million and $1.3 million, respectively, which reduced total acquisition expenses. Our practice is to accrue for the insurance insolvencies when notified of assessments. We are not able to reasonably estimate the liabilities of an insolvent insurer or develop a meaningful range of the insolvent insurer’s liabilities because the guaranty funds do not provide sufficient information for development of such ranges. Our investment results will fluctuate as interest rates change. Our investment portfolio is primarily comprised of interest-earning assets, marked to market each period. Thus, prevailing economic conditions, particularly changes in market interest rates, may significantly affect our operating results. Significant movements in interest rates potentially expose us to lower yields or lower asset values. Changes in market interest rate levels generally affect our net income to the extent that reinvestment yields are different than the yields on maturing securities. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, which are principally comprised of fixed and adjustable-rate investment securities. Generally, the values of fixed-rate investment securities fluctuate inversely with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our stockholders’ equity, income and/or cash flows. Our investments are subject to credit and prepayment risk. A significant portion of our total assets ($4.1 billion or 82%) at December 31, 2011 are financial instruments whose value can be significantly affected by economic and market factors beyond our control including, among others, the unemployment rate, the strength of the domestic housing market, the price of oil, changes in interest rates and spreads, consumer confidence, investor confidence regarding the economic prospects of the entities in which we invest, corrective or remedial actions taken by the entities in which we invest, including mergers, spin-offs and bankruptcy filings, the actions of the U.S. government, and global perceptions regarding the stability of the U.S. economy. Adverse economic and market conditions could cause investment losses or other-than-temporary impairments of our securities, which could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. At December 31, 2011 approximately 18% of our investment portfolio is invested in mortgage and asset-backed securities. We utilize ratings determined by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) (Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s, and Fitch) as an element of our evaluation of the credit worthiness of our securities. The ratings are subject to error by the agencies; therefore, we may be subject to additional credit exposure should the rating be misstated. 21 Table of Contents At December 31, 2011, we hold the following asset-backed securities: (In thousands) CarryingValue (1) AmortizedCost Basis NRSRO WeightedAverage Rating Agency mortgage-backed securities (2) $ 513,834 $ 484,312 AA+ Non-agency mortgage-backed securities 15,342 15,279 BB Subprime mortgage-backed securities 8,089 9,277 BBB Alt A mortgage-backed securities 5,286 5,544 B- Commercial mortgage-backed securities 81,188 76,366 AAA Asset backed securities collateralized by: Credit card receivables 22,130 21,663 AAA Automobile 52,998 52,772 AAA Other 18,592 18,338 AAA Total asset-backed securities $ 717,459 $ 683,551 AA+ (1) At December 31, 2011 all asset-backed securities are carried at fair value. (2) Guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac The prolonged depression in the U. S. housing and real estate markets as well as the U.S. economic downturn has resulted in increases in delinquencies and losses with respect to mortgage- and asset-backed securities. The value of our mortgage- and asset-backed securities is subject to the risk that some of these investments may default or become significantly impaired. Such defaults or impairments would result in net realized investment losses. Our asset-backed securities are also subject to prepayment risk. A prepayment is the unscheduled return of principal. When rates decline, the propensity for refinancing may increase and the period of time we hold our asset-backed securities may shorten due to prepayments. Prepayments may cause us to reinvest cash proceeds at lower yields than currently recognized. Conversely, as rates increase, and motivations for refinancing lessen, the period of time we hold our asset-backed securities may lengthen, causing us to not reinvest cash flows at the higher available yields. The economic downturn in preceding years lessened tax receipts and other revenues in many states and their municipalities and the frequency of credit downgrades of these entities has increased. At December 31, 2011 the fair value of our state/municipal portfolio is $1.2 billion (amortized cost basis of $1.1 billion). While our state/municipal portfolio has a high credit rating (AA on average) which indicates a strong ability to pay, there is no assurance that there will not be a credit related event which would cause fair values to decline. U.S. Government debt rating has been downgraded. In August 2011, one of the major rating agencies downgraded the rating of U.S. Government debt. Another major agency has published a negative outlook for U.S. debt. The rating agencies have previously indicated that debt instruments of other issuers dependent upon federal support and distributions, including state and local municipalities, may also be downgraded, but this has not yet occurred to any widespread extent except with respect to U.S. Agency debt or U.S. Agency guaranteed debt. If ratings downgrades become more widespread, the average credit rating of our investment portfolio will be reduced. Due to the unpredictable nature of this situation, we are unable to provide a reliable estimate regarding the extent to which our portfolio might be affected. As of December 31, 2011 debt securities represent 90% of our total investments and include U.S. Government debt, U.S. Agency debt, and U.S. Agency guaranteed debt having a combined fair value of $906 million and state and municipal securities having a combined fair value of $1,228 million. 22 Table of Contents In a period of market illiquidity and instability, the fair values of our investments are more difficult to assess and our assessments may prove to be greater or less than amounts received in actual transactions. In accordance with applicable GAAP, we value 95% of our investments at fair value and the remaining 5% at cost, equity, or cash surrender value. See Notes 1, 3 and 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Approximately 5% of investments are traded in active markets and we use quoted market prices to value those investments. We estimate fair values for the remaining 90% of our investments, based on broker dealer quotes and various other valuation methodologies, which may require us to choose among various input assumptions and which requires us to utilize judgment. When markets exhibit much volatility, there is more risk that we may utilize a quoted market price, broker dealer quote, valuation technique or input assumption that results in a fair value estimate that is either over or understated as compared to actual amounts received upon disposition or maturity of the security. Our Board may decide that our financial condition does not allow the continued payment of a quarterly cash dividend, or requires that we reduce the amount of our quarterly cash dividend. Our Board approved a cash dividend policy in September 2011 and we instituted a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share at that time. However, any decision to pay future cash dividends is subject to the Board’s final determination after a comprehensive review of the company’s financial performance, future expectations and other factors deemed relevant by the Board. Resolution of uncertain tax matters and changes in tax laws or taxing authority interpretations of tax laws could result in actual tax benefits or deductions that are different than we have estimated, both with regard to amounts recognized and the timing of recognition. Such differences could affect our results of operations or cash flows. Our provision for income taxes, our recorded tax liabilities and net deferred tax assets, including any valuation allowances, are recorded based on estimates. These estimates require us to make significant judgments regarding a number of factors, including, among others, the applicability of various federal and state laws, the interpretations given to those tax laws by taxing authorities, courts and ProAssurance, the timing of future income and deductions, and our expected levels and sources of future taxable income. We believe our tax positions are supportable under tax laws and that our estimates are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, from time to time there are changes to tax laws and interpretations of tax laws which could change our estimates of the amount of tax benefits or deductions expected to be available to us in future periods. In either case, changes to our prior estimates would be reflected in the period changed and could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to U.S. federal and various state income taxes. We are periodically under routine examination by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters and our tax positions could be successfully challenged; the costs of defending our tax positions could be considerable. Our federal returns for the 2010 and 2009 tax years are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. An estimate of our potential liability for known uncertain tax positions is reflected in our financial statements. As of December 31, 2011 our current tax liability is approximately $53.4 million, which includes our liability for unrecognized current tax benefits of $18.6 million, and we have net deferred tax assets of approximately $31.0 million. Unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2011, if recognized, would not affect the effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of tax. 23 Table of Contents New or changes in existing accounting standards, practices and/or policies, and also subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, estimation of losses, determination of fair value, asset impairment (particularly investment securities and goodwill) and tax matters, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the discussion on accounting policies. ProAssurance is primarily a holding company of insurance subsidiaries which are required to comply with statutory accounting principles (SAP). SAP and its components are subject to review by the NAIC and state insurance departments. The NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures manual provides that a state insurance department may allow insurance companies that are domiciled in that state to depart from SAP by granting them permitted non-SAP accounting practices. This permission may allow for more favorable treatment to competitors. It is uncertain whether or how SAP might be revised or whether any revisions will have a positive or negative effect. It is also uncertain whether any changes to SAP or its components or any permitted non-SAP accounting practices granted to our competitors will negatively affect our financial results or operations. See the Insurance Regulatory Matters section in Item 1 for the full discussion on regulatory matters. 24 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 