ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS Significant Competition from an Array of Financial Service Providers Our ability to achieve strong financial performance and a satisfactory return on investment to shareholders will depend in part on our ability to expand our available financial services. In addition to the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, our competitors now include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and finance and insurance companies who seek to offer one-stop financial services to their customers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past. The increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial services providers. If we fail to adequately address each of the competitive pressures in the banking industry, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Economic Downturn A general economic slowdown in the geographic region where the Company operates could negatively impact our business. The Company’s profitability is primarily dependent on the profitability of the Bank, which operates in the Southeastern portion of the State of Michigan. In addition to adverse changes in general economic conditions in the United States, unfavorable changes in economic conditions affecting the geographic region in which the Company operates, such as adverse effects of weather or changes in the automotive industry, may have a significant adverse impact on operations of the Company. An economic slowdown could have the following consequences: • Loan delinquencies may increase; • Problem assets and foreclosures may increase; • Demand for the products and services of the Company may decline; and • Collateral (including real estate) for loans made by the Company may decline in value, in turn reducing customers’ borrowing power, and making existing loans less secure. General Credit Risk The risk of nonpayment of loans is inherent in commercial banking. Such nonpayment could have an adverse effect on the Company’s earnings and our overall financial condition as well as the value of our common stock. Management attempts to reduce the Company’s credit exposure by carefully monitoring the concentration of its loans within specific industries and through loan application and approval procedures. However, there can be no assurance that such monitoring and procedures will reduce such lending risks. Credit losses can cause insolvency and failure of a financial institution and, in such event, its shareholders could lose their entire investment. Environmental Risks In the course of our business, we may foreclose and take title to real estate, and could be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these properties. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third persons for property damage, personal injury, 31 Table of Contents investigation and clean-up costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental contamination, or may be required to investigate or clean up hazardous or toxic substances, or chemical releases at a property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation activities could be substantial. In addition, as the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, we may be subject to common law claims by third parties based on damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the property. If we ever become subject to significant environmental liabilities, our business, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Susceptibility to Changes in Regulation Any changes to state and federal banking laws and regulations may negatively impact our ability to expand services and to increase the value of our business. We are subject to extensive state and federal regulation, supervision, and legislation that govern almost all aspects of our operations. These laws may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, depositors and the deposit insurance funds. In addition, the Company’s earnings are affected by the monetary policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. These policies, which include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act regarding financial modernization that became effective in November, 1999 removed many of the barriers to the integration of the banking, securities and insurance industries and is likely to increase the competitive pressures upon the Company. We cannot predict what effect such Act and any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, but such changes could be materially adverse to our financial performance. For more information on this subject, see the section under Part I, Item 1 of this Report captioned “Regulation and Supervision.” Interest Rate Risk Changes in interest rates affect our operating performance and financial condition in diverse ways. Our profitability depends in substantial part on our “net interest spread,” which is the difference between the rates we receive on loans and investments and the rates we pay for deposits and other sources of funds. Our net interest spread will depend on many factors that are partly or entirely outside our control, including competition, federal economic, monetary and fiscal policies, and economic conditions generally. Historically, net interest spreads for other financial institutions have widened and narrowed in response to these and other factors, which are often collectively referred to as “interest rate risk.” Over the last few years, the Company, along with most other financial institutions, has experienced a “margin squeeze” as lower interest rates have made it difficult to maintain a more favorable net interest spread. The Company manages interest rate risk within an overall asset/liability framework. The principal objectives of asset/liability management are to manage sensitivity of net interest spread and net income to potential changes in interest rates. Funding positions are kept within predetermined limits designed to ensure that risk-taking is not excessive and that liquidity is properly managed. In the event that our asset/liability management strategies are unsuccessful, our profitability may be adversely affected. For more information regarding the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A of this Report. Attraction and Retention of Key Personnel Our success depends upon the continued service of our senior management team and upon our ability to attract and retain qualified financial services personnel. Competition for qualified employees is intense. In our experience, it can take a significant period of time to identify and hire personnel with the combination of skills and attributes required in carrying out our strategy. If we lose the services of our key personnel, or are unable to attract additional qualified personnel, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Dividend Payout Restrictions We currently pay a quarterly dividend on our common shares. However, there is no assurance that we will be able to pay dividends in the future. Dividends are subject to determination and declaration by our board of directors, which takes into account many factors. The declaration of dividends by us on our common stock is subject to the discretion of our board and to applicable state and federal regulatory limitations. The Company’s ability to pay dividends on its common stock depends on its receipt of dividends from the Bank. The Bank is subject to restrictions and limitations in the amount and timing of the dividends it may pay to the Company. 32 Table of Contents Anti-Takeover Provisions Provisions of our Articles of Incorporation and Delaware law could have the effect of discouraging takeover attempts which certain stockholders might deem to be in their interest. These anti-takeover provisions may make us a less attractive target for a takeover bid or merger, potentially depriving shareholders of an opportunity to sell their shares of common stock at a premium over prevailing market prices as a result of a takeover bid or merger. Operational Risks We are subject to certain operations risks, including, but not limited to, data processing system failures and errors, customer or employee fraud and catastrophic failures resulting from terrorist acts or natural disasters. We maintain a system of internal controls to mitigate against such occurrences and maintain insurance coverage for such risks that are insurable, but should such an event occur that is not prevented or detected by our internal controls, uninsured or in excess of applicable insurance limits, it could have a significant adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Information Systems We rely heavily on communications and information systems to conduct our business. Any failure, interruption or breach in security of these systems could result in failures or disruptions in our customer relationship management, general ledger, deposit, loan and other systems. While we have policies and procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of the failure, interruption or security breach of our information systems, there can be no assurance that any such failures, interruptions or security breaches will not occur or, if they do occur, that they will be adequately addressed. The occurrence of any failures, interruptions or security breaches of our information systems could damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business, subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, or expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Technological Advances The financial services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. The effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve customers and to reduce costs. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to address the needs of our customers by using technology to provide products and services that will satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional efficiencies in our operations. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. Failure to successfully keep pace with technological change affecting the financial services industry could have a material adverse impact on our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. Severe Weather, Natural Disasters, Acts Of War Or Terrorism and Other External Events Severe weather, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism and other adverse external events could have a significant impact on our ability to conduct business. Such events could affect the stability of our deposit base, impair the ability of borrowers to repay outstanding loans, impair the value of collateral securing loans, cause significant property damage, result in loss of revenue and/or cause us to incur additional expenses. Although management has established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Trading Volume Risks Although our common stock is listed for trading on the Nasdaq National Market, the trading volume in our common stock is less than that of other larger financial services companies. A public trading market having the desired characteristics of depth, liquidity and orderliness depends on the presence in the marketplace of willing buyers and sellers of our common stock at any given time. This presence depends on the individual decisions of investors and general economic and market conditions over which we have no control. Given the lower trading volume of our common stock, significant sales of our common stock, or the expectation of these sales, could cause our stock price to fall. 33 Table of Contents Our Common Stock Is Not An Insured Deposit Our common stock is not a bank deposit and, therefore, is not insured against loss by the FDIC, any other deposit insurance fund or by any other public or private entity. Investment in our common stock is inherently risky for the reasons described in this “Risk Factors” section and elsewhere in this report and is subject to the same market forces that affect the price of common stock in any company. As a result, if you acquire our common stock, you may lose some or all of your investment. This list of important factors is not exclusive. These risks and uncertainties should be considered in evaluating forward-looking statements, and undue reliance should not be placed on these statements. Neither the Company nor the Bank undertakes — and each specifically disclaims any obligation — to update any forward-looking statement, whether written or oral, that may be made from time to time by or on behalf of the Company or the Bank or to release publicly the result of any revisions that may be made to any forward-looking statements, including revisions to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statements or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. 