Risk Factors You should carefully review the risk factors described below in addition to the other information presented in this document. Our business operations in some countries are subject to additional risks. We conduct business in markets around the world. The risks associated with conducting business internationally, and in particular in some countries outside Western Europe, the US and Canada, can include, among other risks: • fluctuations in currency exchange rates (particularly the US dollar-euro exchange rate) and currency devaluations; • restrictions on the repatriation of capital; • differences and unexpected changes in regulatory environments; • varying tax regimes which could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flows, including regulations relating to setting transfer costs and withholding tax on repatriation of funds and other payments made by joint ventures and subsidiaries; and • tariffs, duties, export controls and other trade barriers. We may not be able to insure or hedge against these risks and we may not be able to ensure compliance with all of the applicable regulations without incurring additional costs. Currency exchange rate fluctuations may negatively affect our earnings from operations A significant portion of our assets and liabilities, as well as part of our sales and costs, are denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in euro. Therefore, when we prepare our Consolidated Financial Statements, we must translate our assets, liabilities, income and expenses in currencies other than the euro into euros at applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the euro will affect the value of these items in our Consolidated Financial Statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. Therefore, significant currency fluctuations may have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, many of our expenses as 4 Table of Contents part of our operations are not denominated in the same currency as that of the corresponding income. These expenses may represent a higher percentage of the sales figure as a result of exchange rate fluctuations and may therefore affect our profitability and cash flows. We may not be able to retain or obtain required licenses, permits, approvals and consents. We need to retain or obtain a variety of permits and approvals from regulatory authorities to conduct and expand our businesses. The process for obtaining or renewing these permits and approvals is often lengthy, complex and costly. If we are unable to retain or obtain the permits and approvals we need to conduct and expand our businesses at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner — in particular, licenses to provide telecommunications services and broadcasting licenses — our ability to achieve our strategic objectives could be impaired. In addition, any adverse changes in the regulatory environment in which our businesses operate could impose prohibitive costs on us and limit our revenue. We may not be successful in developing new technologies or introducing new products and services. The industries in which we operate are highly competitive and subject to rapid and significant changes in technology and are characterized by the frequent introduction of new products and services. The pursuit of necessary technological advances may require substantial investments of time and resources, and we may not succeed in developing marketable technologies. Furthermore, we may not be able to identify and develop new product and service opportunities in a timely manner. Finally, technological advances may render our existing products obsolete, forcing us to write off investments and make substantial new investments. Our content assets in television, motion pictures, audio recordings and interactive games may not be commercially successful. A significant amount of our revenue comes from the production and distribution of content offerings such as feature films, television series, audio recordings and interactive games. The success of content offerings depends primarily upon their acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. The commercial success of a particular content offering depends on several variable factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities and the general economic situation. In addition, we distribute third party contents. Our operations in these businesses are subject to increasingly competitive markets and there can be no certainty that third parties will continue to transfer their rights under conditions that are commercially viable or that there will be no increase in the cost for obtaining these rights. These events could have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We may have difficulty enforcing our intellectual property rights. The decreasing cost of electronic and computer equipment and related technology has made it easier to create unauthorized versions of audio and audiovisual products such as compact discs, videotapes and DVDs. Similarly, advances in Internet technology have increasingly made it possible for computer users to share audio and audiovisual information without the permission of the copyright owners and without paying royalties to holders of applicable intellectual property or other rights. In addition, a substantial portion of our operations is heavily dependent on intellectual property rights that we own or for which we hold a license. If we fail to develop effective means of protecting our intellectual property, our results of operations and financial position may suffer. The recorded music market has been declining and may continue to decline. Economic recession, CD-R piracy and illegal downloading of music from the Internet and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending and shelf space have all contributed to a declining recorded music market. Unauthorized copies and piracy both decrease the volume of legitimate sales and put pressure on the price at which legitimate sales can be made and have had, and we believe will continue to have, an adverse effect on Universal Music Group’s (UMG) revenue and operating income. 5 Table of Contents Our motion picture businesses may lose sales due to unauthorized copies and piracy. Technological advances and the conversion of motion pictures into digital formats have made it easier to create, transmit and “share” unauthorized copies of motion pictures. Unauthorized copies and piracy of these products compete against legitimate sales of these products. The continuous difficulty in passing and applying appropriate legislations and in enforcing court rulings in certain countries where piracy is endemic constitutes a threat for the film industry. A failure to obtain appropriate relief from unauthorized copying through the judicial process and legislation and an inability to curtail rampant piracy may have an adverse effect on our motion picture business. 