D. RISK FACTORS Risks Related to Our Business We face intense competition in most of our markets, which could result in decreases in current and potential customers, revenues and profitability. We face significant competition in all of our markets, typically from at least two other wireless providers, and increasingly from multiple providers, including some of the leading global wireless operators. Governmental authorities in some countries also continue to auction or sell additional bands of spectrum for wireless use and to grant licenses and concessions to new entrants, which will create new competitors in some of our markets. In addition to other wireless providers, we experience competition from fixed-line telephone companies and, to an increasing extent, from the cable, utility, paging, internet and satellite industries. We expect that competition will continue to intensify in all of our existing markets, both from existing competitors and new entrants. These competitors could: • offer lower prices, more attractive calling plans or better services and features; • provide increased handset subsidies; • bundle offerings of fixed-line telephone services with other services; • develop and deploy more rapidly new or improved wireless technologies, services and products; or • expand and enhance their networks faster. The wireless communications industry has been experiencing significant consolidation, and we expect that this consolidation trend will continue. Acquisitions, mergers or joint ventures have created large, well-capitalized competitors with substantial financial, technical, marketing and other resources to compete with our service and product offerings. We expect competition among wireless providers, including new entrants, to continue to drive prices for services and handsets lower. In addition, portability requirements, which enable customers to switch wireless providers without changing their wireless telephone numbers, have been introduced in some of the markets in which we operate and may be introduced in other markets in the future. All of these developments could lead to greater movement of customers among competitors, known as customer churn, which could increase our marketing, distribution and administrative costs, slow growth in customers and reduce revenues. Our market position will also depend on effective marketing initiatives and on our ability to anticipate and respond to various competitive factors affecting the industry, including new services, pricing strategies by competitors, changes in consumer preferences and economic, political and social conditions. Any material failure by us to compete effectively or any aggressive competitive behavior by our competitors in pricing their services or acquiring new customers would have a material adverse effect on our revenues and overall results of operations. In addition, we face competition from communications technologies that are under development or that will be developed in the future, including cordless technologies and private and shared radio networks. As a result of current trends in the telecommunications industry in Europe, such as the rapid convergence of technologies, we expect there to be further technological advances in the future. Failure to compete effectively could result in a decrease in our customers, revenues and profitability. The acquisition and integration of new operators may be costly, difficult and time consuming. We may face technological, administrative and other challenges involved in integrating new operators that we acquire, including the operators we acquired as part of our acquisition of BellSouth’s wireless operations in Latin America and Telefónica Móvil de Chile. In addition, we may face similar challenges in integrating new services and technologies into our existing networks and operations from operators we acquire. Any failure to expand and improve our service and product offerings in these operators may place us at a competitive disadvantage relative to other wireless communications providers. Customers may choose these competitors over us, which could adversely affect our ability to increase our revenues and leverage our cost base. We may require substantial capital resources in order to meet existing obligations under our licenses and continue to develop and expand our business. The operation, expansion and upgrade of our networks, as well as the marketing and distribution of our services and products, require substantial financing. Achieving the minimum coverage requirements under our 5 Table of Contents licenses could require additional financing. Any failure to satisfy our substantial liquidity and capital resource requirements would impede our ability to take advantage of promising but capital-intensive opportunities in our industry. In addition, our results of operations may be negatively affected if we are unable to upgrade our networks or respond to competitive initiatives of competitors that may be less capital-constrained. We depend in large measure on the Telefónica Group for our liquidity and capital resource requirements. Historically, we have relied, in large measure, on the Telefónica Group to satisfy our liquidity and capital resource requirements through loans and from time to time capital contributions. As of December 31, 2005, our total debt was €12,577.4 million, of which €9,824.5 million was owed to other members of the Telefónica Group. In the future, we may be required to incur additional indebtedness to support the ongoing development and expansion of our business. We plan to continue to rely upon Telefónica, S.A. and other Telefónica Group companies to satisfy most of these requirements. If Telefónica, S.A. or other members of the Telefónica Group are unable to provide us with funding, we may need to raise debt from other sources to support the ongoing development and expansion of our business. Increased levels of debt could have negative effects on our company, including: • higher debt-service costs that adversely affect our results of operations; • allocation of increasing amounts of cash flow for debt service; • increased difficulty in obtaining future financing; • reduction of any credit ratings issued by rating agencies in respect of any debt we may issue in the future; • restrictions on our company’s capital resources or operations imposed by lenders; and • reduced flexibility to take advantage of, or pursue, other business opportunities. There may be insufficient demand for the new products and services we have invested in and developed. As an element of our strategy, we have invested in and developed new wireless services, such as wireless internet and data services. In order for our customers to better access these services, we will need to upgrade our customer base with new handsets compatible for UMTS services in some countries and enabled with MMS, cameras, color screens, and other capabilities. The handsets needed to support these services may increase our cost base while demand for these data services and products may not materialize. We cannot assure you that demand for these services will be as high as expected, or that these initiatives will be profitable. If they are not, our growth could be impaired and we could lose our capital investments in these new services. These initiatives could fail for a number of reasons, such as technological developments or competitive factors. Our ability to introduce new services also depends on whether and on what terms new services are permitted by applicable regulations. Our ability to deploy and deliver some of the new services is dependent upon new technologies. These technologies may not be developed in a timely manner or, if developed, may not perform as expected or favorably in comparison to competing technologies, which could negatively affect customer demand. In addition, we may not be able to deliver these services on an economic basis, particularly in comparison to competing technologies. We could lose customers and revenues if we fail to upgrade our existing networks. We must continue to upgrade our existing wireless networks on a timely and satisfactory basis in order to retain and expand our customer base and to provide an adequate and updated portfolio of products and services in each of our markets. Among other things, we must: • upgrade the functionality of our networks to permit increased customization of services; • fill in coverage gaps and increase capacity in some of our markets; • expand and maintain customer care, network management and administrative systems; and • upgrade our systems to maintain our competitiveness and adapt them to new technologies which become available. 6 Table of Contents We cannot assure you that we will be able to execute successfully all of these tasks, many of which are not entirely under our control, on a timely basis or at all. If we fail to successfully execute these tasks, we also may be less attractive to new customers and lose existing customers to our competitors, which would adversely affect our revenues and overall results of operations. Our business could be adversely affected if major suppliers fail to provide us with needed equipment and services on a timely basis. Although we have not been materially affected by supply problems in the past, handsets and network infrastructure suppliers may, among other things, extend delivery times, raise prices and limit supply due to their own shortages and business requirements. If these suppliers fail to deliver products and services on a timely basis, or fail to develop and deliver to us handsets that satisfy our customers’ demands, we could be negatively affected. Similarly, interruptions in the supply of telecommunications equipment for our networks could impede network development and expansion. The development of our business could be hindered if we fail to maintain satisfactory working relationships with our partners, especially Portugal Telecom, our joint venture partner in Brasilcel. Some of our operations, such as Brasilcel, our co-managed joint venture with Portugal Telecom in Brazil, are conducted through joint ventures in which we do not have absolute control over the operations of the venture. Neither Portugal Telecom nor we exercise full control over the Board of Directors or executive team. Each of the shareholders has equal ownership and jointly controls the joint venture, each appointing half of the members of the Brasilcel Board of Directors. Significant financial and operating decisions require Board approval, and all strategic decisions need to be approved by the Board of Directors. Furthermore, Portugal Telecom is entitled to appoint the Vice-Chairman of the Board and nominate the Chief Executive Officer of the joint venture while we are entitled to appoint the Chairman of the Board and nominate the Chief Financial Officer. The particular corporate governance provisions affecting our companies vary from venture to venture, and often depend upon the size of our investment relative to that of other investors, our experience as a wireless operator compared to that of other investors and the preferences or requirements of foreign governments that local owners hold an interest in licensed telecommunications operators. Portugal Telecom is currently the subject of a bid by Sonae Telecom, one of its competitors in Portugal. Portugal Telecom may change its strategy regarding its stake in Brasilcel in light of this bid. We face risks associated with litigation. We are party to lawsuits and other legal proceedings in the ordinary course of our business. An adverse outcome in, or any settlement of, these or other lawsuits could result in significant costs to us. In addition, we may be required to devote substantial time to these lawsuits, time which we could otherwise devote to our business. For a more detailed description of these lawsuits, see “Item 8.A Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information—Legal Proceedings.” Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure We have recently undertaken a series of major initiatives and actions which will materially affect comparability of historical and future financial performance and which may not be fully captured in our historical financial statements included in this annual report. In order to enhance our growth profile and enhance our position as one of the leading global wireless operators and achieving superior growth and profitability, we took several major initiatives during, 2003, 2004 and 2005. These initiatives and actions include, among others, the following: • the increase of our ownership interest in Telefónica Móviles, S.A. México (2005); • the increase of our ownership interest in Telefónica Móviles Peru, S.A. (2005); • the increase of our ownership interest in Telefónica Móviles El Salvador, S.A. (2005); 7 Table of Contents • the acquisition of BellSouth’s wireless operations in Latin America (2004-2005); • the acquisition of 100% of Telefónica Móvil de Chile (2004); • the increase in our ownership interest in our Brazilian operations (2000–2005); and • the acquisition by Brasilcel of a controlling interest in Tele Centro Oeste Participaçoes (2003). All of these items will affect the comparability of our historical and future results of operations and financial condition. For further information on the items described above please see “Item 5A. Operating Results—Basis of Presentation—Events Affecting Comparability of Historical and Future Results of Operations and Financial Condition.” We anticipate that future results of operations and financial condition will be different from our results of operations and financial condition reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, after taking into account these developments and any other future material developments. We are controlled by Telefónica, S.A., whose interests may conflict with those of our company. Telefónica, S.A. currently owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 92.5% of our shares and controls our company. As a result, Telefónica, S.A. has the power to determine the composition of our Board of Directors and to influence major business and corporate decisions, including, for example, extraordinary corporate transactions, strategic initiatives and dividend policy. Telefónica, S.A. also is able to direct our day-to-day management and operations. The Telefónica Group could have conflicts of interest in business transactions with us, or take advantage of business opportunities otherwise available to us, which could reduce our revenues or increase our costs. We regularly enter into business transactions and contractual arrangements with companies in the Telefónica Group and plan to continue to do so. Although we believe that prior and existing transactions and arrangements have been fair to us in all material respects and that their terms have reflected market conditions, it is possible that in some instances we could have obtained better terms from third parties. In addition, Telefónica, S.A. engages in certain wireless activities through O2 plc, a large, well-established United Kingdom-based wireless company, and Cesky Telcom, which operates principally in the Czech Republic. Neither of these companies are part of our group. We could face competition from these and other companies within the Telefónica Group that are not part of our company. Consequently, we could be impeded from pursuing some future business opportunities or obligated to pursue them in conjunction with other companies in the Telefónica Group. Because Telefónica, S.A. is a party to business transactions and contractual arrangements with our company and companies of the Telefónica Group are active in businesses that overlap with ours, there is potential for conflicts of interest between Telefónica, S.A. and its affiliates, on the one hand, and our company and subsidiaries, on the other, in circumstances where our interests and those of Telefónica, S.A. are not aligned. If Telefónica’s merger proposal is approved at the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meetings of both Telefónica Móviles, S.A. and Telefónica, S.A. and is subsequently effected, we will cease to exist as an independent corporate entity and our shareholders will receive Telefónica shares in consideration for their Telefónica Móviles shares and ADSs. On March 29, 2006, our Board of Directors approved Telefónica, S.A.’s proposed merger with Telefónica Móviles. The share swap equation of 4 Telefónica shares, each with a par value of one euro, for every 5 Telefónica Móviles shares or ADSs, each with a par value of 0.50 euros was also approved by our Board. The merger proposal is subject to approval by the shareholders at the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Shareholders’ Meetings of both companies. If the merger is effected, Telefónica Móviles will be merged into Telefónica, S.A. and will cease to exist as an independent corporate entity, and our shareholders will receive Telefónica shares in consideration for their Telefónica Móviles shares and ADSs. Accordingly, upon consummation of the merger, our shares and ADSs will cease to be listed on the Spanish stock exchanges and the NYSE, respectively, and the registration of our shares and ADSs with the Securities and Exchange Commission will be terminated. We adopted new accounting standards in 2005 that impact our financial reporting. In 2004 we prepared our financial statements in accordance with Spanish GAAP, and prepared a reconciliation of certain items to U.S. GAAP as required by SEC regulation. Under current European Union law (“E.U.”), listed E.U. companies had to apply (IFRS) adopted by the E.U. from January 1, 2005 in preparing their consolidated financial statements and provide comparable information in respect of 2004. 8 Table of Contents We have included herein in the Consolidated Financial Statements our consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS for 2005, as we no longer prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with Spanish GAAP. We also have included in the Consolidated Financial Statements our 2004 consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS for comparison purposes. Neither of such financial statements are comparable to the Spanish GAAP financial statements prepared by us and included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2004. Risks Related to Our Industry We operate in a highly regulated industry and could become subject to more burdensome regulation, which could adversely affect our businesses. The licensing, construction, operation and interconnection arrangements of wireless communications systems are regulated to varying degrees by national, state, regional or local and supra-national authorities, such as the European Union. These authorities could adopt regulations or take other actions that could adversely affect us and our companies. For instance, in March 2006, Commissioner Reding, of the European Union proposed new regulations designed to lower international roaming tariffs at both the wholesale and retail level. If such regulation were to be adopted by the European Council of Ministers it could adversely affect us and Telefónica Móviles España (our Spanish subsidiary). Our operating companies require licenses or concessions from the governmental authorities of the countries in which they operate. These licenses and concessions specify the types of services permitted to be offered by our operating companies and the spectrum that may be utilized for these purposes. The continued existence and terms of our licenses and concessions are subject to review by regulatory authorities in each country and to interpretation, modification or termination by these authorities. The terms of our licenses and concessions generally range from 15 to 25 years. Although these licenses and concessions generally are renewable upon expiration, we cannot assure you that they will be renewed or that any renewal will be on acceptable terms. The rules of some of the government regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over our operating companies require us to meet specified network build-out requirements and schedules. In addition, our wireless licenses and concessions typically also require satisfaction of various obligations, including minimum specified quality, service, coverage criteria and capital investment. Failure to comply with these obligations in a given license area could result in the imposition of fines or the revocation or forfeiture of the license for that area. In addition, the need to meet scheduled deadlines may cause our company to expend more resources than otherwise budgeted for a particular network build-out. We cannot assure you that our operating companies will be able to fully comply with the terms and conditions of these licenses and concessions. Increased or significant changes in the regulation of the activities of our operating companies, including the regulation of rates that may be charged to customers for services or termination fees, could have a material adverse effect on our company. New regulations could also increase the costs of regulatory compliance. Our operating companies also typically require governmental permits, including permits for the construction and operation of cell sites. We do not believe that compliance with these permit requirements should have a material adverse effect on our company. However, if we fail to comply with these permit requirements, we could become subject to claims or regulatory actions. Our results have been and may continue to be affected in the medium or long term as a result of the new SMP rules in Brazil. In 2002, Anatel, the Brazilian telecommunications regulator, introduced a new mobile services licensing regime, or SMP, encouraging companies operating under the personal cellular services, or SMC system, to migrate to the SMP system. Under the SMP regime, Brasilcel’s subsidiaries will no longer receive payment from its customers for outbound long distance traffic, but will receive payment for the use of its network, in accordance with the network usage remuneration plan. However, the interconnection fees that that Brasilcels’s subsidiaries receive from long distance operators may not compensate Brasilcel for the revenues that it would have received from its customers for outbound long distance traffic. Until June 30, 2004, SMP service providers could choose to establish a price cap or freely negotiate their interconnection charges. Currently, free negotiation has been the rule, subject to Anatel regulations relating to traffic capacity and requiring that interconnection infrastructure must be made available to requesting parties. 9 Table of Contents In addition, under the SMP regime, an SMP mobile operator used to be required to pay for the use of another SMP mobile operator’s network in the same registration area only if the traffic carried from the first operator to the second exceeds 55% of the total traffic exchanged between them. In that case, only those calls that surpassed the 55% level were be subject to payment for network usage. As a result, if the traffic we terminate for other SMP operators exceeds the traffic they terminate for our company, our revenues and results of operations may be adversely affected. In 2005, for example, this regulatory change contributed to a decrease in our revenues from interconnection fees charged to other operators. There have been discussions from time to time regarding possible amendments to these provisions, including the possible elimination of all payment for network usage between SMP networks. Our business, revenues and results of operations could be materially adversely affected by these and other aspects of the new SMP rules in Brazil. We are subject to evolving regulatory policies which favor increased competition and which could expose us to additional competition in our markets. Regulatory policies of many of the countries in which we operate generally favor increasing competition in the wireless services industry, including by granting new licenses in existing licensed territories in order to permit the entry of new competitors. For instance, on February 2, 2006 the Telecommunications Market Commission issued new regulations with respect to market access to telecommunications networks in Spain. After finding that all Spanish mobile network operators collectively hold a dominant position in the wholesale market, the Telecommunications Market Commission has imposed the following obligations on mobile telephony operators: • an obligation to provide network access following a reasonable request by another mobile telephony operator; and • an obligation to offer reasonable prices for access to its networks. In addition, because we hold leading market shares in many of the countries in which we have operations, we could face regulatory actions by national or, in the case of Europe, EU antitrust or competition authorities if it is determined that we have prevented, restricted or distorted competition. The provision of wireless internet-based content and m-commerce may become subject to increased regulation, which could increase our costs or delay growth in demand for our wireless data and internet services. The provision of internet-based content and m-commerce has not to date been materially restricted by regulation in the markets in which we operate or intend to operate. The legal and regulatory environment relating to internet content and m-commerce is uncertain, however, and may change. New laws and regulations may be adopted for internet service offerings. Existing laws may be applied to the forms of m-commerce in which we expect to engage. Uncertainty and new regulations could increase our costs and could also slow the growth of m-commerce. New and existing laws could delay growth in demand for our wireless data and internet services and thereby limit the growth of our revenues. Our company’s technology could fail to be competitive with other technologies or compatible with the next generation technology. Our operating companies offer both analog and digital cellular services in their markets. Our digital networks in different countries use different standards. Although there is some ability to roam on analog networks, the digital transmission standards are not fully compatible with one another. Our use of these multiple technologies may limit some of our anticipated economies of scale as we seek to further integrate the businesses of our multiple operating companies and we could be required to make significant additional capital investments. Significant capital investments may not be recouped and revenues could decline as current and potential customers select alternative providers and technologies. In addition, alternative technologies may develop for the provision of wireless services to customers that may prove superior to those currently projected. We cannot assure you that unforeseen technological developments will not render our services obsolete or unpopular with customers. 10 Table of Contents The wireless industry may be harmed by reports suggesting that radio frequency emissions cause health problems and interfere with medical devices. Media and other reports have suggested that radio frequency emissions from wireless handsets and base stations may cause health problems. If consumers harbor health-related concerns, they may be discouraged from using wireless handsets. These concerns could have an adverse effect on the wireless communications industry and, possibly, expose wireless providers, including us, to litigation. Even if the authorized health institutions confirm there is no scientific evidence of adverse health effects, we cannot assure you that further medical research and studies will refute a link between the radio frequency emissions of wireless handsets and base stations and these health concerns. Government authorities could increase regulation of wireless handsets and base stations as a result of these health concerns or wireless companies, including us, could be held liable for costs or damages associated with these concerns, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In Spain, for example, we have been required by law to test and certify the emissions of all our base stations in or close to populated areas. All the testing we were required to perform has again demonstrated that our base stations have lower emission levels than those required by regulations. If in the future we fail to comply fully with these standards, we could be subject to claims or regulatory actions. Risks Related to Latin America Adverse Latin American economic, political and social conditions could affect our financial performance. The portion of our revenues and profits deriving from Latin American operations will be increasing due mainly to the development of our operations in the region. Our financial performance in the region is affected by economic, political and social conditions in Latin America. These conditions are volatile due to, among other factors, the following: • significant governmental influence over local economies; • substantial fluctuations in economic growth; • historically high levels of inflation; • devaluation or depreciation, or over-valuation of local currencies; • exchange controls or restrictions on expatriation of earnings; • high domestic interest rates; • wage and price controls; • changes in governmental economic or tax policies; • imposition of trade barriers; • unexpected changes in governmental regulation; • social unrest; and • overall political and economic instability. Many or all of these factors have occurred at various times in the last two decades in most Latin American markets. Adverse economic, political and social conditions in Latin America may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and the market price for our ordinary shares or ADSs. For example, our operations in Argentina were affected by the devaluation of the Argentine peso, the adverse macroeconomic conditions in Argentina and the related legislative measures adopted by the Argentine Government in past years. Additionally, Telefónica Móviles Argentina, S.A. (formerly known as Telefónica Comunicaciones Personales) one of our subsidiaries in Argentina, currently has a negative net worth. Argentine law (Decree 214/2002, as extended) allowed companies to maintain this negative net worth until December 2005 without the need to establish a positive net worth. It is uncertain whether the government of Argentina will once again extend this exception beyond December 2005. However Telefónica Móviles Argentina is currently in a merger procedure with Compañía de Radiocomunicaciones Móviles, S.A., Radio Servicios, S.A. and Compañía de Telefónos del Plata, S.A., all of which are members of the our group. As a consequence of the merger procedure (which shall include an increase of Telefónica Móviles Argentina share capital) Telefónica Móviles Argentina is expected to have a positive net worth. The merger is expected to occur in the fourth quarter of 2006. If this merger does not occur or the aforementioned exception fails to be extended and if Telefónica Comunicaciones Personales is not capitalized by Telefónica Móviles, either through increased capital or partial capitalization of intercompany loans, Telefónica Comunicaciones Personales could be subject to a dissolution proceeding by the Argentine authorities and could lose its license. 11 Table of Contents Latin American currencies have been subject to fluctuations, which could adversely affect revenues and expenses for our operations in this geographic region. Although our reporting currency is the euro, most of our revenues and expenses relating to our Latin American operations are denominated in local currencies. The currencies of many Latin American countries, have experienced substantial devaluations and volatility in recent years, and our revenues from customers will decline in value if the local currencies depreciate relative to the euro. Our business, financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by declines in the value of the currencies of the Latin American countries where we operate. Our hedging strategies may not prove effective to address the effects of foreign currency exchange movements on our financial condition or performance. In addition, our exposure to foreign currency exchange losses may be increased if we become subject to exchange control regulations that restrict our ability to convert local currencies into euro or U.S. dollars. Because our strategy involves increasing our revenues from our Latin American operations and because of the increasing importance of Latin American markets to our operations, our exposure to foreign currency movements is likely to increase over time. 