ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS. There are a number of factors, many beyond our control, which may cause results to differ significantly from our expectations. Some of these factors are described below. Any factor described in this report could by itself, or together with one or more factors, have a negative effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. There may be factors not described in this report that could also cause results to differ from our expectations. Our revenues may fluctuate with insurance market conditions. The property and casualty insurance business is highly competitive. We compete with large national property and casualty insurance companies, locally-based specialty companies, strong mutuals, reciprocals, self-insured entities and alternative risk transfer mechanisms (such as captive insurers and risk retention groups) whose activities are directed to limited markets in which they have extensive knowledge. Competitors include companies that have substantially greater financial resources than we do, as well as mutual companies and similar companies not owned by shareholders whose return on equity objectives may be lower than ours. Competition in the property and casualty insurance business is based on many factors, including premiums charged and other terms and conditions of coverage, services provided, financial ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, claims services, reputation, geographic scope, local presence, agent and client relationships, financial strength and the experience of the insurance company in the line of insurance to be written. Increased competition could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain business at current premium levels, impact our market share and reduce the profits that would otherwise arise from operations. Our operating results and financial condition may be affected if actual insured losses differ from our loss reserves. To recognize liabilities for unpaid losses, we establish reserves as balance sheet liabilities representing estimates of amounts needed to pay reported and unreported losses and the related loss adjustment expense. Our largest liability is our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses. Due to the size of our reserve for loss and loss adjustment expenses, even a small percentage adjustment to the assumptions we make in establishing our reserve can have a material effect on our results of operations for the period in which the change is made. The process of estimating loss reserves is complex. Significant periods of time often elapse between the occurrence of an insured loss, the reporting of the loss by the insured and payment of that loss. Ultimate loss costs, even for claims with similar characteristics, can vary significantly depending upon many factors, including but not limited to, the nature of the claim and the personal situation of the claimant or the claimant’s family, the outcome of jury trials, the legislative and judicial climate where the insured event occurred, general economic conditions and, for medical professional liability, the trend of health care costs. Consequently, the loss cost estimation process requires actuarial skill and the application of judgment, and such estimates require periodic revision. As part of the reserving process, we review the known facts surrounding reported claims as well as historical claims data and consider the impact of various factors such as: – for reported claims, the nature of the claim and the jurisdiction in which the claim occurred; – trends in paid and incurred loss development; – trends in claim frequency and severity; – emerging economic and social trends; – trend of health care costs for medical professional liability; – inflation; and – changes in the regulatory legal and political environment. 16 Table of Contents This process assumes that past experience, adjusted for the effects of current developments and anticipated trends, is an appropriate, but not necessarily accurate, basis for predicting future events. There is no precise method for evaluating the impact of any specific factor on the adequacy of reserves, and actual results are likely to differ from original estimates. Our loss reserves also may be affected by court decisions that expand liability on our policies after they have been issued and priced. In addition, a significant jury award, or series of awards, against one or more of our insureds could require us to pay large sums of money in excess of our reserved amounts. Due to uncertainties inherent in the jury system, each case that is litigated to a jury verdict increases our risk of incurring a loss that has a material adverse affect on reserves. To the extent loss reserves prove to be inadequate to meet future claim payments, we would incur a charge to earnings in the period the reserves are increased. We purchase reinsurance to mitigate the effect of losses under higher coverage limits policies and for a portion of all losses on certain types of policies. Our receivable from reinsurers on unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represents our estimate of the amount of our reserve for losses that will be recoverable under our reinsurance programs. We base our estimate of funds recoverable upon our expectation of ultimate losses and the portion of those losses that we estimate to be allocable to reinsurers based upon the terms of our reinsurance agreements. Given the uncertainty of the ultimate amounts of our losses, our estimates of losses and related amounts recoverable may vary significantly from the eventual outcome. Also, we estimate premiums ceded under reinsurance agreements wherein the premium due to the reinsurer, subject to certain maximums and minimums, is based in part on losses reimbursed or to be reimbursed under the agreement. Due to the size of our reinsurance balances, an adjustment to these estimates could have a material effect on our results of operations for the period in which the adjustment is made. Any adjustments are reflected in then-current operations. If market conditions cause reinsurance to be more costly or unavailable, we may be required to bear increased risks or reduce the level of our underwriting commitments. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for significant amounts of risk underwritten by our insurance company subsidiaries. Market conditions beyond our control determine the availability and cost of the reinsurance, which may affect the level of our business and profitability. We may be unable to maintain current reinsurance coverage or to obtain other reinsurance coverage in adequate amounts and at favorable rates. If we are unable to renew our expiring coverage or to obtain new reinsurance coverage, either our net exposure to risk would increase or, if we are unwilling to bear an increase in net risk exposures, we would have to reduce the amount of our underwritten risk. We cannot guarantee that our reinsurers will pay in a timely fashion or if at all, and, as a result, we could experience losses. We transfer some of our risks to reinsurance companies in exchange for part of the premium we receive in connection with the risk. Although our reinsurance agreements make the reinsurer liable to us to the extent the risk is transferred, the liability to our policyholders remains our responsibility. If reinsurers fail to pay us or fail to pay on a timely basis, our financial results and/or cash flows would be adversely affected. At December 31, 2009 our Receivable from Reinsurers on Unpaid Losses is $262.7 million and our Receivable from Reinsurers on Paid Losses is $16.8 million. Our claims handling practices could result in a bad faith claim against us. We could be sued for allegedly acting in bad faith during our handling of a claim. The damages in actions for bad faith may include amounts owed by the insured in excess of the policy limits as well as consequential and punitive damages. Awards above policy limits are possible whenever a case is taken to trial, and they have been more common in recent years. These actions have 17 Table of Contents the potential to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Historically, we have been successful in resolving actions alleging bad faith on terms that have no material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in healthcare policy could have a material effect on our operations. Healthcare reform is a stated priority of the current presidential administration and healthcare reform is currently under consideration by Congress. The proposed legislation, which remains subject to substantial revision and may or may not become law, focuses primarily on expanding health insurance coverage in the U.S., but also includes measures designed to promote additional competition among health insurers, and measures that might increase Federal oversight of insurers. There is much speculation as to what would be the indirect effects of the legislation as now proposed, including the economic effects on physicians, other health care workers, hospitals, and other types of healthcare facilities. If passed, reforms could result in significant changes in the demand for and profitability of our current insurance products as well as significant changes to the competitive environment in which we operate. It may be difficult to successfully change our insurance products and current business model quickly enough to maintain profitable operations. It does seem likely that there will be several years between the passage of any reforms and the effective date of the reforms. We hope it will allow us to make the adjustments needed to our products and business model, but there is no certainty that we will be successful in our efforts. The passage of tort reform or other legislation, and the subsequent review of such laws by the courts could have a material impact on our operations. Tort reforms generally restrict the ability of a plaintiff to recover damages by, among other limitations, eliminating certain claims that may be heard in a court, limiting the amount or types of damages, changing statutes of limitation or the period of time to make a claim, and limiting venue or court selection. A number of states in which we do business, notably Georgia, Florida, Illinois, Missouri, Ohio, Texas, and West Virginia, enacted tort reform legislation in the previous decade as a response to a rapid deterioration in loss trends. The Illinois statute was overturned in early 2010. We cannot predict with any certainty how other state appellate courts will rule on these laws. While the effects of tort reform have been generally beneficial to our business in states where these laws have been enacted, there can be no assurance that such reforms will be ultimately upheld by the courts. Further, if tort reforms are effective, the business of providing professional liability insurance may become more attractive, thereby causing an increase in competition. In addition, the enactment of tort reforms could be accompanied by legislation or regulatory actions that may be detrimental to our business because of expected benefits which may or may not be realized. These expectations could result in regulatory or legislative action limiting the ability of professional liability insurers to maintain rates at adequate levels. Coverage mandates or other expanded insurance requirements could also be imposed. States may also consider state sponsored malpractice insurance entities that could remove some physicians from the private insurance market. We continue to monitor developments on a state-by-state basis, and make business decisions accordingly. A significant amount of our business is concentrated in certain states so that our performance is dependent on the business, economic, regulatory and legislative conditions in those states. Our top five states, Alabama, Ohio, Florida, Indiana and Michigan, represented 48% of our gross premiums written for the year ended December 31, 2009. Moreover, during the three years ended December 31, 2009, Alabama and Ohio accounted for 30%, 35%, and 33%, respectively, of our gross premiums written in each year during that time period. Because of this concentration, 18 Table of Contents unfavorable business, economic or regulatory conditions in any of these states could have a disproportionately greater effect on us than they would if we were less geographically concentrated. We may be unable to identify future strategic acquisitions or expected benefits from completed and proposed acquisitions may not be achieved or may be delayed longer than expected. Our corporate strategy anticipates growth through the acquisition of other companies or books of business. However, such expansion is opportunistic and there is no guarantee that we will be able to identify strategic acquisition targets in the future. Additionally, if we are able to identify a strategic target for acquisition, state insurance regulation concerning change or acquisition of control could delay or prevent us from growing through acquisitions. Many states’ insurance regulatory codes provide that the acquisition of “control” of a domestic insurer or of any person that directly or indirectly controls a domestic insurer cannot be consummated without the prior approval of the domiciliary insurance regulator. There is no assurance that we will receive such approval from the respective insurance regulator. In the event we are able to complete an acquisition, there is no guarantee that the expected benefits will be achieved as planned. The process of integrating an acquired company or business can be complex and costly, and may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. This can be due to, among other reasons, business disruption, loss of customers and employees, the ineffective integration of underwriting, claims handling and actuarial practices, the increase in the inherent uncertainty of reserve estimates for a period of time until stable trends reestablish themselves within the combined organization, diversion of management time and resources to acquisition integration challenges, the cultural challenges associated with integrating employees, increased operating costs or inability to achieve cost savings, and the assumption of greater than expected liabilities. There is no guarantee that any businesses acquired in the future will be successfully integrated, and the ineffective integration of our businesses and processes may result in substantial costs or delays and adversely affect our ability to compete. If we are unable to maintain a favorable financial strength rating, it may be more difficult for us to write new business or renew our existing business. Independent rating agencies assess and rate the claims-paying ability of insurers based upon criteria established by the agencies. Periodically the rating agencies evaluate us to confirm that we continue to meet the criteria of previously assigned ratings. The financial strength ratings assigned by rating agencies to insurance companies represent independent opinions of financial strength and ability to meet policyholder obligations and are not directed toward the protection of investors. Ratings by rating agencies are not ratings of securities or recommendations to buy, hold or sell any security. Our principal operating subsidiaries hold favorable financial strength ratings with Fitch and A.M. Best. Financial strength ratings are used by agents and customers as an important means of assessing the financial strength and quality of insurers. If our financial position deteriorates or the rating agencies significantly change the rating criteria that are used to determine ratings, we may not maintain our favorable financial strength ratings from the rating agencies. A downgrade or involuntary withdrawal of any such rating could limit or prevent us from writing desirable business. 19 Table of Contents The following table presents the claims paying ratings of our group and our core subsidiaries as of February 10, 2010: ProAssurance Podiatry ProAssurance ProAssurance ProAssurance Specialty Insurance PACO ProAssurance Indemnity National Capital Wisconsin ProAssurance Insurance Company of Assurance Rating Agency Group Company, Inc. Insurance Co. Insurance Co. Casualty Co. Company, Inc. America Company, Inc. A. M. Best A A B++ A- A A A- A- (www.ambest.com) (Excellent) (Excellent) (Good) (Excellent) (Excellent) (Excellent) (Excellent) (Excellent) Fitch A A A A A A A A (www.fitchratings.com) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) (Strong) The rating process is dynamic and ratings can change. If you are seeking updated information about our ratings, please visit the rating agency websites listed in the table. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of independent agents. We depend in part on the services of independent agents in the marketing of our insurance products. We face competition from other insurance companies for the services and allegiance of independent agents. These agents may choose to direct business to competing insurance companies. Our business could be adversely affected by the loss of one or more key employees. We are heavily dependent upon our senior management and the loss of services of our senior executives could adversely affect our business. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of existing key employees and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of key employees or senior managers, or the inability to identify, hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, could adversely affect the quality and profitability of our business operations. Our board of directors regularly reviews succession planning relating to our Chief Executive Officer as well as other senior officers. Mr. Starnes, our Chief Executive Officer, has indicated to the board that he has no immediate plans for retirement. Provisions in our charter documents, Delaware law and state insurance law may impede attempts to replace or remove management or impede a takeover, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation, bylaws and Delaware law contain provisions that may have the effect of inhibiting a non-negotiated merger or other business combination. Additionally, the board of directors may issue preferred stock, which could be used as an anti-takeover device, without a further vote of our stockholders. We currently have no preferred stock outstanding, and no present intention to issue any shares of preferred stock. However, because the rights and preferences of any series of preferred stock may be set by the board of directors in its sole discretion, the rights and preferences of any such preferred stock may be superior to those of our common stock and thus may adversely affect the rights of the holders of common stock. The voting structure of common stock and other provisions of our certificate of incorporation are intended to encourage a person interested in acquiring us to negotiate with, and to obtain the approval of, the board of directors in connection with a transaction. However, certain of these provisions may discourage our future acquisition, including an acquisition in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. As a result, stockholders who might desire to participate in such a transaction may not have the opportunity to do so. In addition, state insurance laws provide that no person or entity may directly or indirectly 20 Table of Contents acquire control of an insurance company unless that person or entity has received approval from the insurance regulator. An acquisition of control would be presumed if any person or entity acquires 10% (5% in Alabama) or more of our outstanding common stock, unless the applicable insurance regulator determines otherwise. These provisions apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by stockholders. If a change in management or a change of control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could decline. We are a holding company and are dependent on dividends and other payments from our operating subsidiaries, which are subject to dividend restrictions. We are a holding company whose principal source of funds is cash dividends and other permitted payments from operating subsidiaries. If our subsidiaries are unable to make payments to us, or are able to pay only limited amounts, we may be unable to make payments on our indebtedness. The payment of dividends by these operating subsidiaries is subject to restrictions set forth in the insurance laws and regulations of their respective states of domicile, as discussed in Item 1 Insurance Regulatory Matters. Regulatory requirements could have a material effect on our operations. Our insurance businesses are subject to extensive regulation by state insurance authorities in each state in which they operate. Regulation is intended for the benefit of policyholders rather than shareholders. In addition to the amount of dividends and other payments that can be made to a holding company by insurance subsidiaries, these regulatory authorities have broad administrative and supervisory power relating to: – licensing requirements; – trade practices; – capital and surplus requirements; – investment practices; and – rates charged to insurance customers. These regulations may impede or impose burdensome conditions on rate changes or other actions that we may want to take to enhance our operating results. In addition, we may incur significant costs in the course of complying with regulatory requirements. Most states also regulate insurance holding companies like us in a variety of matters such as acquisitions, changes of control and the terms of affiliated transactions. Future legislative or regulatory changes may also adversely affect our business operations. The guaranty fund assessments that we are required to pay to state guaranty associations may increase and results of operations and financial condition could suffer as a result. Each state in which we operate has separate insurance guaranty fund laws requiring admitted property and casualty insurance companies doing business within their respective jurisdictions to be members of their guaranty associations. These associations are organized to pay covered claims (as defined and limited by the various guaranty association statutes) under insurance policies issued by insolvent insurance companies. Most guaranty association laws enable the associations to make assessments against member insurers to obtain funds to pay covered claims after a member insurer becomes insolvent. These associations levy assessments (up to prescribed limits) on all member insurers in a particular state on the basis of the proportionate share of the premiums written by member insurers in the covered lines of business in that state. Maximum assessments permitted by law in any one year generally vary between 1% and 2% of annual premiums written by a member in that state, although one notable exception occurred in Florida in 2006, when the state assessed all property casualty insurers a total of 4% of their non-property premiums to offset bankruptcies caused by hurricane claims. Some 21 Table of Contents states permit member insurers to recover assessments paid through surcharges on policyholders or through full or partial premium tax offsets, while other states permit recovery of assessments through the rate filing process. In 2009 and 2008, guaranty fund refunds/recoupments exceeded current year assessments by $533,000 and $1.3 million, respectively, which reduced total acquisition expenses. Our policy is to accrue for the insurance insolvencies when notified of assessments. We are not able to reasonably estimate the liabilities of an insolvent insurer or develop a meaningful range of the insolvent insurer’s liabilities because the guaranty funds do not provide sufficient information for development of such ranges. Our investment results will fluctuate as interest rates change. Our investment portfolio is primarily comprised of interest-earning assets. Thus, prevailing economic conditions, particularly changes in market interest rates, may significantly affect our operating results. Significant movements in interest rates potentially expose us to lower yields or lower asset values. Changes in market interest rate levels generally affect our net income to the extent that reinvestment yields are different than the yields on maturing securities. Changes in interest rates also can affect the value of our interest-earning assets, which are principally comprised of fixed and adjustable-rate investment securities. Generally, the values of fixed-rate investment securities fluctuate inversely with changes in interest rates. Interest rate fluctuations could adversely affect our stockholders’ equity, income and/or cash flows. Our investments are subject to credit and prepayment risk. A significant portion of our assets ($3.8 billion or 83%) at December 31, 2009 are financial instruments whose value can be significantly affected by economic and market factors beyond our control including, among others, the unemployment rate, the strength of the domestic housing market, the price of oil, changes in interest rates and spreads, consumer confidence, investor confidence regarding the economic prospects of the entities in which we invest, corrective or remedial actions taken by the entities in which we invest, including mergers, spin-offs and bankruptcy filings, the actions of the U.S. government, and global perceptions regarding the stability of the U.S. economy. Adverse economic and market conditions could cause investment losses or other-than-temporary impairments of our securities, which could affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our portfolio holds asset-backed securities which consist of securitizations of underlying loans collateralized by homes, autos, credit card receivables, commercial properties, hotels, and multi-family housing. In addition to interest rate fluctuations, asset-backed security values are affected by the existence of U.S. Government or Government-Sponsored Enterprise guarantees, the value and cash flows of the underlying collateral, and the security’s seniority in the securitization’s capital structure. Approximately 20% of our fixed maturities are asset-backed securities, 97% of which are investment grade, (91% AAA, 3% AA, 5% BBB, 1% B) as determined by Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations (NRSROs) (Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch). Ratings published by the NRSROs are among the tools used to evaluate the credit worthiness of our securities. The ratings are subject to error by the agencies; therefore, we may be subject to additional credit exposure should the rating be misstated. We have direct exposure to asset-backed securitizations that we classify as subprime (See “Investment Exposures” included in Item 7, page 45). We have no exposure to subprime loans through collateralized debt obligations (CDOs). Our asset-backed securities are also subject to prepayment risk. A prepayment is the unscheduled return of principal. When rates decline, the propensity for refinancing may increase and the period of time we hold our asset-backed securities may shorten due to prepayments. Prepayments may cause us to reinvest cash flows at lower yields than currently recognized. Conversely, as rates increase, and motivations for refinancing lessen, the period of time we hold our asset-backed securities may lengthen, causing us to not reinvest cash flows at then higher available yields. 22 Table of Contents In a period of market illiquidity and instability, the fair values of our investments are more difficult to assess and our assessments may prove to be greater or less than amounts received in actual transactions. In accordance with applicable GAAP, we value 97% of our investments at fair value and the remaining 3% at cost or the current cash surrender value (BOLI). See Notes 1, 2 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Approximately 6% of our investments are traded in active markets and we use quoted market prices to value those investments. We estimate fair values for the remaining 91% of our investments, based on broker dealer quotes and various other valuation methodologies, which may require us to choose among various input assumptions and which requires us to utilize judgment. When markets exhibit much volatility, there is more risk that we may utilize a quoted market price, broker dealer quote, valuation technique or input assumption that results in a fair value estimate that is either over or understated as compared to actual amounts received upon disposition or maturity of the security. The current economic environment may have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. The U.S. government has undertaken measures to stabilize the U.S. economy and financial markets, including the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and measures are also being undertaken by the governments of other leading nations. In addition, the U.S. Treasury, the Federal Reserve, and FDIC began several programs to provide liquidity support to the financial system in 2008 and 2009: Commercial Paper Funding Facility (CPFF), Term-Asset Backed Loan Facility (TALF), the Temporary Guaranty Liquidity Program (TGLP), and the Public-Private Investment Program (PPIP), among others. Although the measures appear to have been positive for the economy and the financial markets, there is no assurance that the markets will further improve or maintain stability once these measures expire or are discontinued. In such an uncertain economy there is increased risk that the fair value of our investments may decline in the future. Additionally, the financial situation of our insureds may also decline significantly, which could result in an increase in non-renewals or reductions in the level of coverage purchased. A worsening economy could cause shifts in the frequency and severity of the claims filed against our insureds. Although we have not experienced such shifts to-date, a worsening economy could result in actual claims experience that is worse than that estimated by us in establishing our reserves and premium rates, making our operations less profitable or unprofitable. Our reinsurers are subject to the same uncertainties and risks. If the downturn is prolonged or if losses significantly increase, reinsurers may become less willing or unable to meet their obligations to us. Also, actions of the U.S. government undertaken to improve the overall economy may have a specific detrimental effect on the value of certain types of investments we own, particularly mortgage-backed securities. While future actions cannot be predicted, many observers in the financial community believe additional measures will be undertaken to reduce home mortgage foreclosures, some of which may benefit homeowners more than holders of mortgages. The fair value of our investments in non-agency mortgage-backed securities that might likely be affected by mortgage modification efforts approximates $36.2 million ($38.0 million recorded cost basis). We also hold agency mortgage-backed securities which are guaranteed by Ginnie Mae, Fannie Mae, or Freddie Mac, having a combined fair value of $504.5 million ($484.9 million recorded cost basis). Agency mortgage-backed securities may also be affected, although the guarantees provided are intended to protect bond holders from credit loss. The reduction of or discontinued purchases of agency mortgage-backed securities by the Federal Reserve could cause the fair value of our Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities to decline if there is no other market support for those bonds. The continued lack of congressional action in determining the future structure of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac could also impact the fair value of our holdings. While the two government-sponsored enterprises currently have U.S. Government support through 2012, there is no assurance that the support will continue thereafter. 23 Table of Contents The economic downturn has lessened tax receipts and other revenues in many states and their municipalities and the frequency of credit downgrades of these entities has increased. At December 31, 2009 the fair value of our state/municipal portfolio is $1.45 billion (recorded cost basis of $1.40 billion). While our state/municipal portfolio has a high average credit rating (AA on average) which indicates a strong ability to pay, there is no assurance that there will not be a credit related event in our state and municipal bond portfolios which would cause fair values to decline. The company holds $92.6 million of Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS) which are affected by the general health of the economy. Commercial mortgage delinquencies have risen in the last 24 months as occupancy rates for commercial buildings and hotels have declined and fair values for many CMBS securities have declined. The recent PPIP program helped improve the fair values of the CMBS market, but there is no guarantee that it will continue. While we primarily hold high quality CMBS in our portfolio (average rating is AAA), there is no guarantee that fair values will be maintained in the future if delinquencies continue or increase or the economy does not maintain stability. We maintain banking deposits with banks that are subject to a variety of regulatory regimes. During late 2008 and all of 2009, all commercial deposits had unlimited FDIC insurance under the Transaction Account Guarantee (TAG) as part of the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program. The TAG program expired at the end of 2009, and became an optional election for banks thereafter. Three of our primary banks did not elect to continue participation in the TAG. We have $38.4 million of uninsured deposits at December 31, 2009. Absent the unlimited FDIC insurance, we assess the creditworthiness of our banks in determining how much exposure we have to each bank. While we believe we have reasonable exposures to each of the banks given their creditworthiness in excess of FDIC insurance, given the current economic conditions and the efforts of the FDIC to maintain a healthy banking system, there is no assurance that a bank with which we do business will not have difficulty in the future if economic conditions were to worsen. Resolution of uncertain income tax matters and changes in tax laws could adversely affect our results of operations or cash flow. Our provision for income taxes, our recorded tax liabilities and net deferred tax assets, including any valuation allowances, are recorded based on estimates. These estimates require us to make significant judgments regarding a number of factors, including, among others, the applicability of various federal and state laws, the interpretations given to those tax laws by taxing authorities, courts and ProAssurance, the timing of future income and deductions, and our expected levels and source of future taxable income. We believe our tax positions are supportable under tax laws and that our estimates are prepared in accordance with GAAP. Nevertheless, we are periodically under routine examination by various federal, state and local authorities regarding income tax matters and our tax positions could be successfully challenged; the costs of defending our tax position could be considerable. Additionally, from time to time there are changes to tax laws and interpretations of tax laws which could change our estimates of the amount of tax benefits or deductions expected to be available to us in future periods. In either case, changes to our prior estimates would be reflected in the period changed and could have a material effect on our effective tax rate, financial position, results of operations and cash flow. ProAssurance is subject to U. S. federal and various state income taxes, and generally remains open to income tax examinations by tax authorities for years beginning with 2006. From time to time, we have tax positions being reviewed by the IRS or state taxing authorities. Our expectation regarding the resolution of those reviews is reflected in our then-current period financial statements. At this time, we do not have any matters under review for which we do not expect to prevail that we consider to be a material amount, separately or in the aggregate. As of December 31, 2009 our current tax liability is approximately $17.0 million, and we have a net deferred tax asset of approximately $68.8 million. 24 Table of Contents New or changes in existing accounting standards, practices and/or policies, and also subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results. U.S.generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as revenue recognition, estimation of losses, determination of fair value, asset impairment (particularly investment securities and goodwill) and tax matters, are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. See Note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for the discussion on accounting policies. ProAssurance is primarily a holding company of insurance subsidiaries and is required to comply with statutory accounting principles (SAP). SAP and its components are subject to review by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and state insurance departments. The NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures manual provides that a state insurance department may allow insurance companies that are domiciled in that state to depart from SAP by granting them permitted non-SAP accounting practices. This permission may allow for more favorable treatment to competitors. We cannot predict whether or how reforms will be enacted, or whether the enacted reforms will have a positive or negative effect. We can also give no assurance that future changes to SAP or its components or the grant of permitted non-SAP accounting practices to our competitors will not negatively affect our financial results or operations. See the Insurance Regulatory Matters section in Item 1 for the full discussion on regulatory matters. 25 Table of Contents ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS. None. 